

201 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: For Coptic Church's Christmas, Sorrow in Brooklyn Over Terrorist Act in Egypt

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
Flashing lights from two police cars illuminated the red-brick church on Thursday night. Two counterterrorism officers wearing civilian clothes carefully scrutinized the congregants. It was Christmas Eve, one of the happiest days in the Coptic calendar. A church deacon sheepishly checked the bags of people he had known his whole life.
Maybe it was an overabundance of caution, but no one complained. After all, the parishioners at the St. George Coptic Orthodox Church had suffered enough for one week. 
Hours after a suicide bomber attacked a Coptic church in Egypt last weekend, killing at least 21 people, the St. George Church, in the Dyker Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, was surrounded by heavily armed police officers as a police helicopter hovered overhead. It turned out to be an overreaction to an attempt to steal two donation boxes, but it reflected the jittery nerves that have taken hold among Coptic Christians, even in the diaspora. This week, they mourned the victims, who had been leaving a New Year's Mass, and they worried about the safety of Copts in their homeland.
''People are very, very sad,'' said the Rev. Luke Awad, one of St. George's three priests. In the days leading up to the Christmas Eve Mass, Father Luke fielded nervous phone calls from congregants, asking whether the Mass -- traditionally, a standing-room-only service -- would go on.
The church leaders decided it would, but canceled the traditional midnight feast, as well as Christmas celebrations on Friday. They also changed the bright orange background on the church's Web site to a somber gray.
It was the second consecutive Christmas, which Copts celebrate on Jan. 7, that had been marred by violence. On Christmas Eve last year, a Muslim gunman fired on worshipers leaving a church in Upper Egypt, killing 7 people and wounding 10 others. Copts in Egypt complain of increasing persecution, including official discrimination and attacks by Muslim extremists.
Memories of that persecution seem to be part of the foundation of St. George, established in 1973 in a former Baptist church. The Egyptian immigrants who came to St. George -- almost as soon as they arrived in the United States -- were propelled by developments at home: the loss of jobs and opportunity, or the growing worries of the Copts, who make up about 10 percent of Egypt's roughly 80 million people.
The congregants represent different moments in Egypt's history. Edward Tosson, 56, left Egypt during the presidency of Anwar el-Sadat. Mr. Tosson said that era marked a deepening of a sectarian divide in Egypt, as Mr. Sadat allowed Islamists to gain influence in a bid to counter leftist groups. In New York, Mr. Tosson rose from a stock boy to owning a restaurant with a business partner he met at the church.
His partner, Albert Shenouda, 37, was an English teacher in Alexandria, the coastal city where the bombing took place last week. He came to New York 14 years ago, frustrated by the lack of economic opportunity in Egypt. The St. George Church helped him: one of the priests found him an apartment, and his roommate found him a job.
At the church, Mr. Tosson and Mr. Shenouda sit next to doctors and pharmacists, shopkeepers and civil servants. The congregation is not wealthy, Father Luke said, and it is struggling to find financing for a new community center that would include a gym and apartments for some of the elderly members.
Mr. Shenouda and Mr. Tosson travel back to Egypt often, they said, and they frequently return from the trip depressed. ''We're losing interest in going back,'' Mr. Tosson said. Having the church helped ease the transition to the United States. ''You go inside, and you live in Egypt.''
But for all its comfort, the church can also be a bubble, where the feelings of persecution are amplified and distance from Muslim neighbors grows. Mr. Tosson and others said they guarded against that separation by holding on to friendships, especially with Egyptians, outside the church.
When Christmas Eve Mass began at about 6:30 p.m., the pews were still mostly empty. A church camera panned across sad faces. The prayers were in Coptic, Arabic and English. A priest talked about the attack in Alexandria, asking God to comfort ''those who were martyred.''
By the end of the service, the mood had lifted. On the streets outside the church, relatives greeted one another with smiles, and teenagers flirted. Inside, a young man waited for a ride from his uncle.
Botros Rizke, 27, who left Alexandria a year ago, had attended the church that was bombed on Saturday. A relative of his had been maimed, and friends were killed. He had spent the week looking at pictures of the carnage -- graphic, awful pictures -- again and again.
''I'm going to watch those videos every day,'' he said, his anger filling the church. ''I don't want to forget.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (92%); RELIGION (92%); TERRORISM (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); SHOOTINGS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); HELICOPTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



202 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Japan, Volkswagen Expands in America

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY -- Volkswagen may be the largest automaker in Europe and a powerhouse in China, Brazil and much of the rest of the world. But for years, it has flirted with irrelevance in the United States.
The company's market share dropped to only 2 percent in the mid-2000s -- even including the luxury Audi brand, which it owns -- because of quality problems, car designs that made few concessions to U.S. driving habits and a failure to adapt to the changing tastes of American consumers.
But now Volkswagen, which has often declared its intention to achieve the same stature in the United States that it boasts elsewhere, is mounting its first serious effort in decades to compete with the Japanese and Korean manufacturers that have nearly driven it out of the U.S. market.
At the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, which begins Monday, the company will take the wraps off its so-called New Midsize Sedan, or N.M.S., which VW designed specifically for American consumers and will be made at a new $1 billion factory in Chattanooga, Tennessee. It will be the first car that Volkswagen has built in the United States since the 1980s. 
With typical bravura, Volkswagen executives say the car, whose very name is being kept secret, will be at the forefront of a U.S. renaissance that will include more than tripling its unit sales to 800,000 cars by 2018. That, in turn, is part of the goal of Martin Winterkorn, VW's chief executive, of surpassing Toyota to become the world's largest automaker.
Volkswagen executives insist that they have learned from the mistakes of the past. Long-suffering dealers are hopeful that they have.
''The U.S. customer wanted a coffee-cup holder and it took VW years to recognize that simple request,'' said Gary Montesi, who manages a Volkswagen dealership bearing the family name in North Haven, Connecticut.
Cup holders were not the only problem. In the 1970s, Volkswagen underestimated the Japanese automakers, who offered better quality and performance in the same price range as the Beetle. Later, Volkswagen was slow to market with an S.U.V., a niche segment in Europe but all-important in the United States. It was also late with a modern minivan -- a striking lapse, considering that the Volkswagen bus was arguably the first family van.
While some drivers appreciated VW's European-style handling and interior controls, many found the suspension too stiff and the dashboard too complicated. Such buyers were more likely to choose a less-expensive Honda or Toyota, which were more tuned to American tastes.
Volkswagen also suffered from quality problems. Cars like the Passat still earn only average scores in buyer surveys by J.D. Power and Associates. Volkswagen, which has a better reputation in Europe, acknowledges the quality and reliability issues and lists one of its goals for 2018 as becoming the industry leader in customer satisfaction.
Mr. Montesi, the dealer, expresses hope that Volkswagen can recapture some of the glory days of 1960s and the iconic Beetle. As a teenager back then, Mr. Montesi swept floors and washed cars at the dealership founded in 1964 by his father.
''After those up and down performances, we feel pretty optimistic,'' Mr. Montesi said. ''In years past, there was commentary from management alluding to commitment, but now we are really seeing it.''
Still, analysts are skeptical whether Volkswagen can sell 800,000 cars as quickly as it plans to. ''I have a hard time with that,'' said Rebecca Lindland, director of commercial and strategic analysis for IHS Automotive, a market research firm.
But there is agreement that Volkswagen looks far stronger in the United States than it has in years. Sales rose 20 percent in 2010 to 257,000 cars, thanks to a stepped-up advertising campaign as well as free routine maintenance for three years or 36,000 miles, about 58,000 kilometers. The program helped address lingering buyer doubts about quality.
''We used to be very strong in the U.S.; we have lost that over the last 10 or 15 years,'' Christian Klingler, the Volkswagen executive board member responsible for sales, said during an interview at VW's factory and office complex in Wolfsburg.
Increased sales of the Volkswagen brand coincide with a similar surge by Audi, the sister brand. Audi sold 102,000 cars in the United States for 2010, after selling 83,000 in 2009. Audis, which compete with premium brands like BMW and Lexus, are sold through separate dealerships but share many parts with Volkswagens.
The recent sales gains are ''just reinforcing our belief that our plans, although ambitious, are feasible,'' Mr. Klingler said.
By building cars in the United States, Volkswagen can escape high German labor costs and the strong euro, and better compete on price with the Toyota Camry, Honda Accord and Hyundai Sonata, not to mention substantially improved midsize sedans from General Motors and Ford. The N.M.S. is expected to carry a base price of about $20,000, $7,000 less than the starting price for the Passat, Volkswagen's current entry in the midsize segment.
Volkswagen has already dropped the price of its Jetta model, which accounts for more than half of U.S. sales. A redesigned Jetta, made in Mexico and introduced in June, starts at $16,000, almost $2,000 less than its predecessor and low enough to take on the Honda Civic or Toyota Corolla.
Reviewers have complained that the Jetta's lower price was achieved by cutting corners in areas like the seat-adjustment mechanism or rear suspension. Lower-priced versions have drum rather than disc brakes in the rear.
(Times review: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/26/automobiles/autoreviews/26volkswagen-jetta.html)
But Volkswagen preserved the sporty handling that the Jetta was known for, and buyers do not seem to mind the loss of some features. Sales through November are up 40 percent from a year earlier.
Volkswagen must achieve a similar balance with the N.M.S., keeping down the price but preserving VW's trademark noncomformist styling and aura of German engineering. Those qualities helped Volkswagen survive in the United States, however tenuously, when other European volume automakers like Renault and Fiat simply gave up.
''I don't think they want to get too far away from the Volkswagen heritage,'' said Jeff Schuster, executive director of forecasting at J.D. Power and Associates. ''The Volkswagen brand attracts a buyer that wants to be a little different.''
Mr. Klingler would not give specifics about the design of the new car ahead of its official introduction. But he promised it would address the needs of U.S. drivers, for example, with simpler instrument panels than in cars made for Europe.
''Our cars have to have a language that is easily understood,'' Mr. Klingler said. ''We are really trying to get into the head of the American customer.''
An unofficial image of the car published by the German magazine Auto Bild shows a four-door sedan with wrap-around grill and headlights reminiscent of the smaller Golf hatchback. The N.M.S. will be slightly longer than the pricier Passat sedan, according to Auto Bild, but use less expensive components, like a cheaper interior plastic.
Volkswagen has carefully guarded information about the new car ahead of its presentation, even beefing up security at the Chattanooga factory. But local boosters are enthused.
''We think the timing is right, we think the car is right,'' said Trevor Hamilton, vice president of economic development at the Chattanooga Area Chamber of Commerce, who has seen the N.M.S. ''We hope to do our part here in Chattanooga.''
More new Volkswagens for the U.S. market are expected in coming years, including an update this year of the New Beetle.
Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany who studies the auto industry, argues that Volkswagen should also export its Skoda brand cars, which are made in the Czech Republic using many VW parts.
Volkswagen could overtake Toyota more quickly ''if the group also attacked the U.S. market with less expensive vehicles,'' Mr. Dudenhoffer said.
All the talk by Volkswagen executives about passing Toyota globally -- not to mention the No.2, General Motors -- leads to criticism that the company is just empire building. But Mr. Klingler insisted that robust profits would follow from its commitment to expanding in the United States.
''Size is a welcome side effect of our actions, but it is not the core objective,'' he said. ''The world is big, and to achieve our goals we have to look at all opportunities. The U.S. cannot be ignored.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Montesi, who runs a dealership in Connecticut, says Volkswagen is committed to America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); MINIVANS (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (55%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (89%); CHINA (88%); JAPAN (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



203 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: A Champion of the Student Writer

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
SUDBURY, Mass. -- William H. Fitzhugh, the cantankerous publisher of a journal that showcases high school research papers, sits at his computer in a cluttered office above a secondhand shop here, deploring the nation's declining academic standards.
''Most kids don't know how to write, don't know any history, and that's a disgrace,'' Mr. Fitzhugh said. ''Writing is the most dumbed-down subject in our schools.''
His mood brightens, however, when talk turns to the occasionally brilliant work of the students whose heavily footnoted history papers appear in his quarterly, The Concord Review. Over 23 years, the review has printed 924 essays by teenagers from 44 states and 39 nations.
The review's exacting standards have won influential admirers. William R. Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of admissions, said he keeps a few issues in his Cambridge office to inspire applicants. Harvard considers it ''something that's impressive,'' like winning a national math competition, if an applicant's essay has appeared in the review, he said. 
That reputation has always been bigger than revenues. Last year, income from 1,400 subscriptions plus charitable donations totaled $131,000 -- about $5,400 short of total expenses, even though Mr. Fitzhugh paid himself only $18,000. This year, with donors less generous in the recession, Mr. Fitzhugh had to stop printing hard copies of the review, publishing its most recent issues only online, at tcr.org.
The term paper was once an important feature of American secondary education, requiring students to dig deeply and write at length. Mr. Fitzhugh said that most public school teachers have stopped assigning such papers -- a shift that he attributed mostly to the fact that teachers have so many students and so little time.
Still, hundreds of earnest students send Mr. Fitzhugh papers every year, hoping to win his stamp of approval.
In the most recent issue, a senior from Montclair, N.J., writes of Theodore Roosevelt's tenure as a New York police commissioner; a New Orleans student profiles a 19th-century transcendentalist philosopher; and a senior from Seoul documents the oppression of Korean residents on a North Pacific island.
Pamela Ban was a junior at Thomas Worthington High School in Ohio when Mr. Fitzhugh picked her paper on Chinese economic reform for the summer 2008 issue. Researching it as an independent study project with her teacher, Mark McCort, Ms. Ban said, was a transformative learning experience. But it puzzled her classmates.
''They were in disbelief, like, 'Why would you want to do more work like that?' '' said Ms. Ban, who now studies applied math and economics at Harvard.
Mr. Fitzhugh, a Harvard graduate himself, taught history for a decade at Concord-Carlisle High School in Massachusetts. When he started teaching in 1977, he was advised by colleagues to assign only short papers, five to seven pages -- if at all.
But well into his teaching career, he received a high school sophomore's thoroughly researched, 28-page paper on America's strategic nuclear balance with the Soviet Union.
''That taught me I hadn't been asking kids to work as hard as they could,'' Mr. Fitzhugh recalled.
In 1987, he put up most of his modest savings to start publishing the review.
One of its earliest cheerleaders was Albert Shanker, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, who before his death in 1997 wrote at least two newspaper columns and personal letters to the National Endowment for the Humanities, the MacArthur Foundation, and Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley, extolling the review and urging them to provide it with financial support.
''We know that most of the youngsters in our schools don't write very much or very well,'' Mr. Shanker wrote to the endowment's president, Lynne Cheney, in 1991. ''There are probably teachers who don't believe their students are capable of putting together a decent paragraph. The Concord Review shows them how much our students are capable of.''
Another admirer was Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian.
''The Concord Review has done an extraordinary thing in providing an organ, a medium, for first-class papers done in high schools,'' Mr. Schlesinger says in a 2004 videotape that Mr. Fitzhugh has posted on the review's Web site.
Despite all the praise, Mr. Fitzhugh has never been able to put the review on solid financial footing.
One reason is that he has been unable to persuade more than just a few of the nation's 24,000 public secondary schools to subscribe, at $40 a year.
Some educators may see the review as a showcase only for an elite. All but four of the 22 essays published in the two most recent issues, for example, were by private school students.
But it was not always so. In the review's first decade, more than a third of the essays were from public school students. Mr. Fitzhugh said he would love to publish more from public school students, but does not get many exemplary submissions.
''It's not my fault,'' he said. ''They're not doing the work.''
He recently asked the head of a history department at a New Jersey high school if he assigned research papers.
''Not anymore,'' Mr. Fitzhugh quoted the teacher as saying. ''I have my kids do PowerPoint presentations.'' Mr. Fitzhugh said he scoffs when some educators argue that research papers have lost relevance because Google has put so much knowledge just keystrokes away.
Researching a history paper, he said, is not just about accumulating facts, but about developing a sense of historical context, synthesizing findings into new ideas, and wrestling with how to communicate them clearly -- a challenge for many students, now that many schools do not require students to write more than five-paragraph essays.
''I can't count all the lawyers who say their firms have organized remedial classes for all the associates who can't write,'' Mr. Fitzhugh said.
Mr. Fitzhugh's curmudgeonly personality may have driven away supporters. One who abruptly stopped giving was John Abele, the billionaire co-founder of Boston Scientific, who was donating nearly $200,000 a year in the early 2000s. Mr. Fitzhugh said he believed Mr. Abele had tried to replace him with younger leadership at the review.
A spokesman for Mr. Abele declined to comment.
In another episode, Mr. Fitzhugh persuaded the Albert Shanker Institute, a research group associated with the teachers' union that Mr. Shanker led, to finance a nationwide survey of public school history teachers in 2002.
About 95 percent of them said assigning long research papers was important, but 8 out of 10 said they never did because they had too little time to read and grade them.
During the survey, Mr. Fitzhugh said he quarreled with a deputy director at the institute, Burnie Bond. The institute paid the survey costs but cut off further collaboration and did little to publicize the results, which received scant coverage.
In October -- eight years later -- an organization of conservative academics whose president is a friend of Mr. Fitzhugh's reported the results anew on its Web site, arguing that the institute had ''suppressed'' them because they were ''too awkward'' for the teachers' union. Mr. Fitzhugh acknowledged that that was a misleading characterization of the events.
Ms. Bond said last week that Mr. Fitzhugh had been ''so irascible he couldn't be worked with.''
''Still, we think he's doing a good job with The Concord Review and in advocating for more writing in the schools,'' she said.
Now 74, Mr. Fitzhugh said he has so far been unable to find the right person to succeed him, and the review's future as an online journal remains uncertain.
But when he feels discouraged, he said, a new essay will often arrive, like, say, the 11,000-word paper that came in the other day from a student in Hong Kong examining the history of scientific inquiry in China.
Suddenly he is thrilled anew that the review has called forth impressive work from a young scholar on the other side of the earth.
''It's a great essay, and I can't wait to publish it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William H. Fitzhugh publishes The Concord Review, featuring research papers written by high school students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)
 The summer issue of The Concord Review. (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (73%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (66%); CHARITIES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



204 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Hear Case on Recusal Laws

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to decide whether states may forbid government officials to vote on matters where they appear to have a personal conflict. The case, which concerns a member of a city council in Nevada, was one of seven the court added to its docket.
Eight states, led by Florida, had urged the court to hear the case, Nevada Commission on Ethics v. Carrigan, No. 10-568. Their brief said that recusal laws for public officials were ''a measured response to the credibility gap between the public and its public officials.'' 
Nevada's law requires elected officials to disqualify themselves, much as judges often do, when they are asked to vote on matters that touch on what the law called ''commitments in a private capacity.''
In 2006, not long before an election, a member of the Sparks City Council, Michael A. Carrigan, disclosed that his campaign manager was a consultant to a business seeking to develop a casino, before voting its way in a land-use matter. The Nevada Commission on Ethics later ruled that the vote was improper and censured Mr. Carrigan.
The Nevada Supreme Court reversed that decision, saying it violated the First Amendment and citing the Supreme Court's decision last year in Citizens United. ''Voting by an elected public officer on public issues is protected speech under the First Amendment,'' Justice Michael Douglas wrote for the majority.
In dissent, Justice Kristina Pickering called that assertion ''both unprecedented and unwise.'' She said that voting by a public official is conduct rather than protected speech.
Citizens United may also figure in a second First Amendment case that the court agreed to hear on Friday, Sorrell v. IMS Health, No. 10-779, which involves database mining and drug marketing.
Three states -- Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont -- have laws prohibiting some but not all uses of information collected by pharmacies in filling prescriptions. The laws restrict data mining companies that collect and analyze prescription information and sell it to drug companies eager to know how to tailor their marketing efforts to doctors.
The case is not about patients' privacy rights, as individual information about them is stripped from the data.
The lower courts have divided over whether the laws, largely identical, are constitutional. The case the court agreed to hear came from Vermont by way of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York.
The Vermont law forbids the sale of prescription data to market drugs and bars drug companies from using the data to market drugs, unless the prescribing doctor consents. But other uses are allowed, including ones by law enforcement, insurance companies and journalists.
The Vermont Legislature, in a possible misstep, explained that it enacted the law because ''the marketplace for ideas on medicine safety and effectiveness is frequently one-sided.''
But the Supreme Court has often been wary of governmental efforts to level the free-speech playing field and said so again in Citizens United.
A divided three-judge panel of the Second Circuit struck down the Vermont law. A visiting federal trial court judge, Judge John G. Koeltl, wrote that the law was an unconstitutional regulation of commercial speech, saying, ''The statute seeks to alter the marketplace of ideas by taking out some truthful information that the state thinks could be used too effectively.''
A dissenting Second Circuit judge, Debra Ann Livingston, said Vermont had made ''eminently reasonable legislative judgments.''
''I am unwilling to accept the majority's conclusion that such business operations have an inherent right to invoke the First Amendment as a shield against reasonable regulation,'' she wrote, ''simply because their business deals in 'dry information' rather than dry goods.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (87%); DATA MINING (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (86%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CITIES (72%); INSURANCE LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); PHARMACIES (66%); WRITERS (64%); DRUG SAFETY (62%); INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF NEVADA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



205 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Symbol of Track's Struggles Is Prepared to Drive Again

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
ALLENTOWN, N.J. -- Richard Silverman never dreamed of becoming the aerial embodiment of Meadowlands harness racing. He never imagined the six-horse chaos that dislodged him from his sulky and left him in the most precarious of positions, up in the air.
He was driving an inexperienced long shot in the second race on a Friday night card at Meadowlands Racetrack last June 18 when he drifted to the outside near the back of the pack, going past the quarter-mile pole. His wife and daughters, just up from their Florida home near West Palm Beach, were on hand. So was his father, Jerry, a 75-year-old horse trainer, who started him with the standardbreds right out of high school. 
A nice Jewish boy from Henry Hudson Parkway in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, Silverman made good in his old man's business. He didn't earn the way the top drivers did, in annual sums of about $750,000. But he won big races, the Woodrow Wilson and at the Breeders Crown, and more than 2,000 over all.
In a good year, he might earn between $100,000 and $150,000, doing most of his driving at his beloved Meadowlands.
''The Yankee Stadium of harness racing,'' he called it one frigid recent morning at White Birch Farms in central New Jersey, where Silverman was training for his scheduled return to the troubled Meadowlands track Saturday night after a six-month absence.
He has not watched a video of the June pileup, turning away with whiplash speed when a replay appeared on a harness racing show he was watching. He does not remember much after the initial impact broke both his ankles as his feet were ripped from the stirrups. Silverman only knows what he has been told by those who witnessed the spectacle, including those who reached him first as he lay face down on the track.
''They told me they thought I was dead,'' he said.
He is still not sure why the first horse to fall, Four Starzz Lefty, driven by George Brennan, went down. ''For whatever reason, he just dropped,'' Silverman said. ''He might have gotten caught on a shoe. No warning, just went down.''
He was told that he flew about 20 feet off the ground and that his body twisted in flight as if he was performing some Olympic snowboarding trick. When he fell, Silverman struck one of the fallen horses, which may have eased the blow to his head when it struck the ground.
''They say after I bounced off the horse, the sulky hit me and finally I landed on my stomach,'' Silverman said.
On the other side of the track, his wife, Beth, and daughters Cori, 15, and Sara, 11, saw the accident but had no way of knowing the extent to which he was involved.
''It happened so quickly,'' Beth Silverman said in a telephone interview. ''I ran down to the paddock and by the time I got there I saw all the ambulances. I was asking everyone: 'Have you seen him? Have you seen Richard?' ''
Silverman was on his way to Hackensack University Medical Center, where a coma was induced. He was treated for a severe concussion. So initially concerned with brain trauma were doctors that they did not notice Silverman's ankles were broken until the next day. A surgeon inserted two screws in each ankle, and five days later Silverman was relocated to CareOne, a senior living center in Wall, N.J., that has orthopedic and post acute rehabilitation services. He was at the facility for 17 days, confined to a wheelchair, blessing his fortune while pondering his future.
''The first two months of my rehab I was balancing this in my head, whether I wanted to come back,'' he said. ''I didn't know if I wanted my wife and children to ever see something like that again. But I love driving and the thrill of winning. If I was in the position where today I could train 30 horses, make a nice living, I would give up driving. But I'm not in that position. I still have to provide for my family.''
Silverman continued his therapy in Florida, pushed through residual pain in his ankles and contemplated a comeback while there was still a Meadowlands track to come back to. Not the most thriving of sports in stable economic times, horse racing in northern New Jersey landed on the critically endangered list when a commission appointed by Gov. Chris Christie suggested in November that the track be closed and its operations merged with Monmouth Park in 2011.
A month later, Christie announced an agreement to keep the Meadowlands running with state subsidies for the first three months of the year. Jeff Gural, who owns two New York tracks, Tioga Downs and Vernon Downs, was granted an exclusive three-month window to strike a privatization deal. ''I never thought there was going to be the day when anyone would ever think about closing the Meadowlands,'' Silverman said. ''To me, it's devastating.''
He hopes Gural will be the savior and that the state will eventually allow slot machines to enhance the track's appeal, while acknowledging that the odds of bucking the Atlantic City gaming power base are not good.
Living in the moment, he sat his daughters down recently and explained that what they witnessed last June was the most freakish of occurrences, against the mightiest odds. They told him they understood and he went back to work. Silverman returned to the Meadowlands last week to drive in qualifying races. Over that hump, he invited his CareOne therapists to attend his official return Saturday night and went about the business of preparing one of his own horses for his first ride in the second race.
The horse's name is Urgent Action. Once again, Silverman will unwittingly symbolize the plight of his favorite track.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); SNOWBOARDING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



206 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The Impresario Who's Keeping the '80s Spirit Alive Downtown

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
''This was New York. 1980. Sweaty, smoky, sexy, coke-y New York. Dangerous New York.''
It was a bitterly cold Thursday in December, and the theater director and producer Ben Rimalower was testing out his in-progress show about a son's coming of age, a father's coming out of the closet and Patti LuPone's coming into a young man's life as only a diva can. His audience at the Delancey, a Lower East Side nightclub, was engaged but not uncritical.
''Oh, God!,'' a shrill voice sounded from the back of the dark room. ''Turn off that light behind you! It's hideous.''
Mr. Rimalower raised an eyebrow and cocked a hip: ''That light, I'll have you know, is helping me read my script. If not for that light, I'd be just another drag queen lip-syncing to Patti LuPone.'' 
Someone whispered, ''Ouch.'' Mr. Rimalower (who was looking dapper in vest, tie, buttoned-up shirt and jeans) offered a wicked little smile and said, to appreciative cheers, ''That's my 11 o'clock show.''
Welcome to The Party That Dare Not Speak Its Name, a queer cabaret series whose official title can't be printed in these pages. Its mastermind, the independent performance curator and producer Earl Dax, came up with the name from epithets hurled at him by another promoter during an altercation.
The series's next iteration is Sunday, in conjunction with the American Realness festival, a survey of new dance and performance that occurs during the annual conference of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters. An eclectic who's who of artists will perform, including downtown royalty like Taylor Mead, of Andy Warhol fame, and the East Village force Penny Arcade; the performance artist and drag virtuoso Joey Arias; the beglittered, often nude Dazzle Dancers; and the contemporary dance and performance standouts Miguel Gutierrez, Ann Liv Young and Neal Medlyn.
''I try to pull from a lot of different elements of the queer community, so you get this one night when people are in the same room who wouldn't normally be,'' Mr. Dax said, after Mr. Rimalower's set. ''It reminds me of New York the melting pot.''
This is a party with serious art chops, and that's not even accounting for the crowd. Mr. Dax's Delancey smorgasbords run till 4 a.m. and allow attendees to move among three floors of (often improvisational) performances, detouring whenever they like for another drink or chance social encounter. They draw 300 to 400 people a pop, a mix of artists, fans and culturati, as well as those who are simply on the prowl. And, yes, just about everyone is some version of fabulous. Still, it's not exactly the ''sweaty, smoky, sexy, coke-y New York'' of yore.
''Things feel safer, and that's both good and bad,'' said the writer and longtime cultural observer Stephen Greco, comparing the work he sees today with what it meant to be at East Village hot spots like the Pyramid Club or 8BC in the '80s. ''There's something about some of the art I'm seeing that feels willing to be adored, respected and appreciated, but not willing to scale up and take on real power. Maybe it's a nostalgia point for me, that I expect so much club performance to be fist-up revolutionary as well as a darn good time.''
Yet Mr. Dax's events, the most historically minded of the current generation of club performances, form one of the surest and most politically conscious links to the fabled East Village club scene of that era. They demonstrate, said Frank Smigiel, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art's associate curator for public programs, ''how the DNA of that period is playing out today'' and continue a serious-minded cabaret tradition embraced by the early performance artists from the Dada and Futurist movements.
''Earl is always pushing the idea of counter- or queer culture to ramp up the political edge and give it more of a concept and intellect,'' said Mr. Smigiel, who presented ''Weimar New York,'' another of Mr. Dax's productions, in 2009. Then he laughed. ''When you're in one of Earl's events, you are constantly running into this family that is getting to know one another -- you don't feel you're in Studio 54. Everyone's bra strap is falling off, everyone's got the right kind of dirty glitter makeup, and it creates this community.''
Mr. Dax, a boyish 39, grew up in Albuquerque and moved to the East Coast in the mid-'90s. He was an AmeriCorps volunteer in Maryland before moving to Philadelphia, where he created a persona he called ''the Drag Queen for Social and Economic Justice.'' Producing followed and then overtook performing; in 2005 he moved to New York, found a room for $500 in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and realized it was easier for him to make events happen than to be hired as a waiter.
''Presenting is just a sideline of Earl's real focus, which is community building,'' Ms. Arcade said, stressing the importance of the Delancey's top floor, where a quiet lounge permits conversations to develop and connections to form. ''What this allows for is cafe society. You have an art scene and you have a community where people can talk to each other and get to know each other. Gay, straight, bisexual, transsexual, drag queens, asexual -- everyone is welcome.''
The road from AmeriCorps volunteer to club impresario is not, as it turns out, so long and winding.
''AmeriCorps was very much about direct service, and in Philadelphia I started to see this different approach to social change,'' said Mr. Dax, who was drawn to Philadelphia by his interest in working for progressive change through organizations like Grassroot Queers. ''In a very humble and small way, this work, instead of tackling these big policy issues on a macro level, is about working within a community of performers and attempting to allow people to communicate, and do their work in a way that helps to amplify their voices.''
And the downtown scene (now more conceptual than geographical) has been imperiled by various threats: gentrification, AIDS, grant cuts. Even the culture wars continue, as demonstrated by the recent removal of a David Wojnarowicz video from the National Portrait Gallery after complaints by the Catholic League.
''The same things that freaked out the establishment 20 years ago still freak them out,'' said Max Steele, a regular performer at Mr. Dax's events. ''AIDS is still a taboo topic, and queer culture is absolutely still marginalized, even within the downtown New York avant-garde world.''
In the 1980s artists could easily shape their acts, doing short sets at a different spot every night of the week. But most of those clubs are long gone, and the aesthetics and structures of the city's progressive theaters don't lend themselves to the sort of work that once thrived in New York.
''Nothing is stepping up, apart from Earl, to replicate that club scene,'' said Vallejo Gantner, the artistic director for Performance Space 122, though he did group Mr. Dax among a rising generation of younger independent producers (like Ben Pryor, who created American Realness).
At the last Delancey event, ''Homo for the Holidays,'' the packed bar was dotted with notables: Justin Bond sat regally on a plush bench; the Philadelphia drag queen Needles Jones tottered about a small stage like a remarkably disheveled elder statesman (or woman); and Ms. Arcade leaned in a corner, wearing a Cheshire cat grin. Mr. Dax appeared to be everywhere, as he cheerfully scrambled, drink in one hand and cellphone in the other, to keep everything running smoothly.
''It's out of my hands,'' he said smiling, shouting to be heard over the din of the crowd, which had begun chanting ''No, no, homo,'' along with Needles.
''I'm just the midwife,'' Mr. Dax added. And then he joined in.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl Dax, right, with Max Steele, front, Glenn Marla and Penny Arcade, at the Delancey, site of his cabaret series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCE (89%); THEATER (77%); FESTIVALS (75%); DANCERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



207 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Chile Offers Recognition For a State Of Palestine

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting from Santiago, Chile.

 BODY:
SAO PAULO -- Chile formally recognized an independent state of Palestine on Friday, becoming the seventh South American country to take such a step in the past month.
The government of President Sebastian Pinera had been under growing pressure from the nation's large Palestinian population, more than 300,000, to recognize a Palestinian state. But the fact that so many countries in Latin America have done so at the same time underscores the unwillingness in the region to wait until Israel and the Palestinians resolve their disputes over territory and other issues, political analysts said.
The decisions by Latin American governments come in response to an effort by Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, to seek such recognition following the breakdown in negotiations. 
It was the announcement by Brazil on Dec. 3 that seemed to inspire other countries in the region to follow suit. Brazil's president at the time, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who left office last week, had tried to insert his nation into the Middle East peace negotiations and had forged warm relations with Iran, creating tensions with the United States.
''Brazil's role in this process is fundamental,'' said Michael Shifter, the president of the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington. ''To some degree, other South American governments are following Brazil's lead.''
In addition to Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador and Venezuela have all announced support for a Palestinian state. Paraguay and Peru are expected to offer recognition soon, said Eugenio Tuma, a senator in Chile who pushed for the measure.
''South American countries are acting every day with greater coordination,'' Mr. Tuma said Friday. With the move by Chile's government, he said, ''we are demonstrating that South America can play, together, a role in the great global issues affecting humanity.''
The Chilean senator did not comment on whether Brazil had been coordinating the wave of recognitions, saying only that the region was taking a ''common view'' about the ''need to contribute to the peace process, despite the distance that separates us from the Middle East.''
Analysts said it was difficult to interpret Latin America's recognition of a Palestinian state along strictly ideological lines, or even according to how countries viewed the United States. Argentina, with Latin America's largest Jewish population, suffered terrorist attacks in the 1990s and has adopted a tough stance on Iran. Yet it made the same decision as Brazil on the Palestinian question.
Economic factors could also be playing a role, with Latin American countries betting that recognition of a Palestinian state would draw more foreign investment to the region, Mr. Shifter said. Dilma Rousseff, Brazil's new president, is scheduled to attend an Arab-Latin America summit on Feb. 16 in Lima, Peru. Mr. da Silva hosted the first such summit in Brasilia in 2005.
Under Mr. da Silva, Brazil made more inroads into the Middle East than its neighbors have in recent years, sometimes at odds with American policy initiatives in the region. Last year, Brazil and Turkey helped negotiate a deal with Iran on its nuclear power program to try to head off more United Nations sanctions, an effort Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called a ''transparent ploy'' by Iran.
Ms. Rousseff has already indicated that she will ''cool off the relationship with Iran,'' said David Fleischer, a political science professor at Brasilia University. But the closer relationship with the Arab world continues. Mr. Abbas attended Ms. Rousseff's inauguration last week in Brasilia.
Mr. Pinera met with Mr. Abbas there as well, and he plans on visiting the West Bank in March to ''strengthen the ties of friendship between Chile and the states of Israel and Palestine,'' the Chilean government said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); POLITICS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); BRAZIL (97%); CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); PERU (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); URUGUAY (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



208 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Obama the Centrist Irks a Liberal Lion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
BERKELEY, Calif. -- So how would he grade President Obama's economic policies, and the new team put in place this week?
Though Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary, endorsed Mr. Obama and has traveled to the White House to provide economic counsel, he offers a smile that looks unmistakably pained.
''We have a remarkably anemic recovery; it's paper-thin,'' Mr. Reich says. ''In the narrowest, tactical terms, in sheer dollars committed to programs, Obama's done pretty well, and his favorability ratings are better than those of the Democratic Party.''
Then he sweeps his hands far apart in his sun-filled warren of an office at the University of California, Berkeley. 
''If you widen the lens, the public is being sold a big lie -- that our problems owe to unions and the size of government and not to fraud and deregulation and vast concentration of wealth. Obama's failure is that he won't challenge this Republican narrative, and give people a story that helps them connect the dots and understand where we're going.''
Mr. Reich, 64, is one of several prominent liberal economists who despair of what they say is this president's political caution, and his unwillingness to duel with an emboldened Republican Party.
Faced with a Republican majority in the House, Mr. Obama this week appointed Gene Sperling, a former adviser to President Bill Clinton, as director of his National Economic Council, and William M. Daley, a centrist politician turned banking executive, as his chief of staff. Mr. Daley was a member of the Third Way, a group that counsels deficit reduction, more tax cuts and perhaps trimming Social Security.
Mr. Reich is not pleased by the president's message of late.
''By freezing federal salaries, by talking about deficits, by extending the Bush tax cuts, he's legitimizing a Republican narrative,'' Mr. Reich says.
''Why won't he tell the alternative story? For three decades we've cut taxes on the wealthy while real wages stood still.''
Mr. Obama's liberal economics critics include Nobel Prize winners, Paul R. Krugman, the Princeton professor and columnist for The New York Times, and Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Columbia professor who served as chairman of Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisors.
Simon Johnson, former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and a professor at M.I.T., once advised liberals to stop blaming Mr. Obama's advisers for pushing policies too friendly to Wall Street -- the president makes those decisions.
Mr. Reich served as labor secretary for President Clinton, and in his latest book ''Aftershock: The Next Economy and America's Future'' he applauds Mr. Obama for deft work in preventing the economy from toppling into a Depression.
But the president demanded too little of the bankers he saved, Mr. Reich says, and he conflated a rising stock market and soaring corporate profits with an improving economy.
The majority of Americans, who derive much of their wealth from their homes rather than the stock market, are falling far behind the top 1 percent, who took in 23 percent of the nation's income in 2007. That inequality, he says, is at the heart of America's malaise.
''Obama had a chance to reboot the bailout,'' he says. ''He could have said to the bankers, 'If you want more, you've got to put a cap on salaries, you've got to agree to modify X number of mortgages.' ''
Mr. Reich sees a parallel with his former boss, Mr. Clinton, and draws no comfort from the comparison. Confronted with a muscular Republican majority in the House in 1994, Mr. Clinton mastered triangulation, which is to say he sailed into a sea neither Republican nor Democratic. It was a strategic masterstroke, but he threw overboard some liberal founding stones.
''I found myself truly impressed by how quickly Clinton moved to the putative center,'' says Mr. Reich, a touch archly.
Mr. Reich sees President Obama taking a similar tack. This argument drives the president and his advisers to distraction.
To survive in a Washington where Republicans and Democrats are on nearly permanent war footing with one another, the president's advisers say, requires an agility little understood by those on the outside. They point to health care and financial reform, to extended unemployment benefits and to the stimulus bills (which liberal economists criticized as too small) that let city and state governments avoid tens of thousands of layoffs. They will put their accounting up against that of their critics.
(Congressional Republicans are split between those who have described Mr. Obama as a liberal, or a dangerous radical, or, more exotically, a Kenyan-style socialist).
Mr. Reich says he knows careful compromise is the daily bread of government. He emphasizes he is not a paleo-liberal.
He favors incentives rather than the lash of requirement when it comes to job creation. He pushes an industrial policy to make workers more competitive. And his view that trade is a beneficial balm leads him to a fairly benign view of China.
He also remains willing to have his heart broken by politicians. He worked in the Gerald Ford administration -- as a young lawyer he worked for Robert Bork, now a conservative luminary -- and for President Jimmy Carter.
A New Yorker in childhood, a Bostonian by academic residency for many years, he moved west to Berkeley five years ago, and that sunny clime seems to suit his disposition. His office, overlooking cypress trees and a courtyard, is jammed with books and posters of his political heroes, from Franklin Delano Roosevelt to an old Life magazine portrait of Adlai Stevenson.
During the 2008 primaries, he wrote a tough column about Hillary Clinton. (In a reminder that alliances are ever shifting, Mr. Sperling fired back with a column in defense of Ms. Clinton and criticizing Mr. Obama, who just tapped Mr. Sperling for his new economic team.)
Why does political romance so often sour into disappointment? ''Even the most visionary president -- Reagan, say -- gets surrounded by ambitious tacticians,'' he replies. ''Everyone is giving advice about the next battle, and there is no room for thinking about how to communicate with all those Americans essentially sitting in the bleachers.''
Democratic presidents, he goes on, raise money from and are surrounded by Ivy League-educated meritocrats, often of substantial wealth.
''Their norms are of those who earn more than $300,000, whose kids go to private school and whose primary savings are in the stock market rather than in their homes,'' he says. ''Their assumptions are different in profound ways from most struggling Americans.''
The modern Democratic Party, he says, is removed from what he and Mr. Krugman view as a better time: the decades stretching from World War II until about 1970. The typical high-income earner then paid more than 50 percent of income as taxes. The economic bargain was explicit: government encouraged industry, and working Americans shared in the fruits, buying houses and cars, with pensions to tide comfortable retirements.
''We tend to think of the political center as static, but it's become much more conservative over time,'' Mr. Reich says. ''What's happened in the last 30 years is that the private sector worker has taken a shellacking.''
Conservatives and centrists rejoin that a return to an age of strong unions and fixed benefits would leave the economy gasping in a global age. Mr. Reich has taken lumps over the years from fellow liberals as well, and not just from conservatives.
The late Tony Judt, founder of the Remarque Institute at New York University, once criticized Mr. Reich for writing too glibly, and not infusing his analysis of corporate behavior with a more rigorous and moral core.
Put that question to Mr. Reich and he raises his hands: guilty as charged.
Economics, he says, takes its origin as a moral philosophy. ''Tony was right; I left out the questions of power and inequality,'' he says. ''The Great Recession has made it impossible for me to ignore that.''
Ask Mr. Reich if he would go back to government, knowing idealism would be trampled, and he nods.
As for now? He smiles.
''When you're out, you have a lot less of a megaphone,'' he says. ''But you can say a lot more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Reich says the president is unwilling to take on Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Robert Reich, who was labor secretary for President Bill Clinton, sees a parallel between his former boss and President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE MARQUETTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Joseph E. Stiglitz, left, a professor at Columbia, and Paul R. Krugman, a professor at Princeton, both of whom won Nobel Prizes, are liberal economists and critics of President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN YANG/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CHRIS EAST/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); DEREGULATION (72%); WRITERS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



209 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Obama Promises Full Recovery for Employment

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama went to a busy window-manufacturing plant near here on Friday to promote his economic policies and his new team of advisers as the monthly jobs report reflected only modest employment growth.
''We will not rest until we have fully recovered from this recession,'' the president told workers.
Only hours earlier, the chairman of the Federal Reserve told Congress that while he expected the economy to be ''moderately stronger'' this year, it would be several years before the jobless rate fell to more normal levels. 
That suggests that Mr. Obama is likely to face relatively high unemployment rates for the rest of his term. In responding, the president and his economic advisers will focus on getting the most bang for the buck from existing stimulus measures. New initiatives will tend not to carry a big price tag that adds to the growing national debt, officials say.
For example, aides say, Mr. Obama is exploring whether to seek an overhaul of the corporate tax system by closing myriad tax breaks and using the savings to cut business taxes. That could spur investment and jobs.
After two years of responding to the economic crisis he inherited, Mr. Obama starts the second half of his term managing the slow recovery and building on what he calls a ''foundation'' for growth. In his view, this includes the two-year stimulus package with its increases for education, research and work-training programs; stronger financial industry regulations; the overhaul of the health care system; and, most recently, the tax cuts that Mr. Obama and Republican leaders agreed to last month.
Yet Mr. Obama will have to defend his foundation even as he seeks to solidify it: Newly empowered Republican lawmakers have taken office this week with an economic agenda that calls for tearing down the stimulus spending initiatives, the health care law and the financial regulations, as well as any new administration regulations.
Last month's enactment of the bipartisan package of business and individual tax cuts, which few had expected before the lame-duck Congress met, helps explain the relative scarcity of new administration ideas, officials say.
''We accomplished what were our main ideas for bipartisan agreement going forward,'' said one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Chief among those ideas was a cut of two percentage points in workers' payroll taxes for Social Security, a reduction that has begun showing up in paychecks this week. Mr. Obama alluded to that fact in his remarks to employees at the Thompson Creek Window Company in Landover, Md.
Another was a proposal to allow businesses to write off the full cost of some equipment and other capital investments in 2011, as Thompson Creek's owners plan to do in expanding its factory and work force this year.
Mr. Obama, in his appearance alongside four of his newly named economic advisers, made clear that his emphasis would be on promoting the measures already on the books. ''Part of this team's mission in the months ahead will be to maximize the steps we've taken to spur the economy,'' he said.
He also spoke as if to a national audience, salesman-style, through the nearby television cameras.
''Companies who are listening out there: If you are planning or thinking about making investments sometime in the future, make those investments now and you're going to save money,'' he said. ''And that will help us grow the economy ''
Mr. Obama introduced Gene B. Sperling as his new director of the National Economic Council, charged with coordinating policies and brokering differences within the administration. Mr. Sperling held the same job under President Bill Clinton; he replaces Lawrence H. Summers, who returned to Harvard University.
''One of the reasons I've selected Gene is he's done this before,'' Mr. Obama said. During the Clinton administration, Mr. Obama added, ''He helped formulate the policies that contributed to turning deficits to surpluses and a time of prosperity and progress for American families.''
With the elevation of Mr. Sperling, who has been a counselor to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, Mr. Obama has replaced three of the four principals of his original team. When he took office he chose people with experience in global economics and financial crises, including Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner, the only remaining member of the original group.
Now Mr. Obama has turned to pragmatic liberals with experience in the policy-making bureaucracy -- and negotiating with Republicans in Congress.
He previously chose Jacob J. Lew as budget director -- the same job Mr. Lew had under Mr. Clinton -- to succeed Peter R. Orszag, who has taken a job with Citigroup. And last summer Mr. Obama promoted Austan Goolsbee, a former campaign adviser, as chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers after Christina D. Romer returned to the University of California, Berkeley.
Also on Friday, Mr. Obama promoted Jason Furman, who remains as deputy director of the National Economic Council but with a higher rank. He nominated Katharine G. Abraham to take the third seat on the Council of Economic Advisers, which opened when Mr. Goolsbee became chairman, and Heather Higginbottom, a White House domestic policy adviser, to be Mr. Lew's deputy budget director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



210 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Struggle Forecast for Pentagon and Deficit Hawks

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
Now that the Obama administration has forced the Pentagon to gradually freeze its budget in response to economic pressures, the question in Washington is: How long will the deal hold up?
In announcing plans to cut $78 billion in spending over five years, phasing out any growth above inflation, the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, made it clear on Thursday that he hoped to keep the military budget from shrinking.
Many analysts said he did an artful job in picking areas to trim, but they doubted that the Pentagon would be able to prevent the budget from actually dropping in two or three years, particularly if deficit-reduction efforts gathered steam. 
Political and military analysts said even some of the new Republicans in the House might find it difficult to trim government expenditures without including the Pentagon's base budget, which the White House would like to increase to $550 billion in fiscal 2012.
The new House Republican leaders -- who have said that military spending should not be off limits -- and newcomers backed by the Tea Party could join with Democrats who have long bridled at the surge in military spending since the Sept. 11 attacks. And with troops coming home from Iraq, legislators could win support for more cuts from a public weary after a decade of war, even as the fighting continues in Afghanistan.
Mr. Gates acknowledged the new political reality, saying tough choices were ''more important than ever at a time of extreme fiscal duress, when budget pressures and scrutiny fall on all areas of government, including defense.''
But even as Mr. Gates drew a new line in the sand on ''the minimum level of defense spending that is necessary,'' the latest reductions seemed to fuel the sense that the military budget was now in play.
Just last fall, Mr. Gates had seemed confident that he could ease such pressures by shifting money inside the Pentagon. He had pushed the armed services and the bureaucracy for $150 billion in savings over five years that could be used for military priorities. He announced many of those changes, including facility consolidations and a reduction in contractors, on Thursday.
But in agreeing with the White House decision to reduce the Pentagon's budget request for 2012 to $553 billion, excluding the costs of the wars, from the $566 billion that he thought he had been promised, Mr. Gates took ''a sort of one-step-back concession to reality,'' said Gordon Adams, a former Clinton administration official who served on Mr. Obama's transition team.
''The finger in the dike didn't work,'' Mr. Adams said, referring to Mr. Gates's efforts. ''And now he is acknowledging that pressure from outside is impinging on defense.''
Mr. Adams and other analysts said that stopping the budget's growth could lead to substantial cuts in spending and in the size of the military's forces.
''If you think about the defense budget as having a wide turning radius like an aircraft carrier, it is just about 20 percent into a turn that could take years to finish,'' said Loren B. Thompson, a consultant to military contractors. ''But at least Gates is now acknowledging that the turn is coming.''
Mr. Gates said the $78 billion in reductions from previous budget proposals would enable Pentagon spending to keep growing slightly faster than inflation through fiscal 2014 and at a rate equal to inflation in the two years after that.
He said some of the savings would be achieved by cutting 47,000 Army troops and Marines in those last two years. But just staying ahead or even with inflation would produce nominal increases that could seem eye-popping to lawmakers worried about the nation's debt.
Excluding war costs, the administration's new budget proposal for the Pentagon would total $2.9 trillion over five years. The annual totals would rise to $571 billion in fiscal 2013, $586 billion in 2014, $598 billion in 2015 and $611 billion in 2016.
And Mr. Gates, who is widely respected by members of both parties, has said he is likely to retire this year, a move that would leave the Pentagon without its most forceful advocate.
The defense secretary said that even as the growth slows, the United States military would be far more powerful than any other, especially as other nations cut back more severely. But he also cautioned that further reductions would amount to ''math, not strategy.''
Other Pentagon officials wondered what could be cut while 100,000 American troops are in Afghanistan, the United States faces crises with North Korea and Iran, and China and Russia are beefing up their forces.
But the new House speaker, John A. Boehner, and majority leader, Eric Cantor, have said that trims in military spending were a possibility. Other Republicans would prefer to limit budget cuts to domestic programs.
Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the new chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said he would resist military spending cuts.
Congress also could reject Mr. Gates's plan to increase health insurance fees for retired veterans. Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, said the health care changes would be ''very sensitive in my district.''
Ohio and Michigan lawmakers also have begun to rally support for the Marines' Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, a $14.4 billion program that Mr. Gates would like to kill. It could provide thousands of jobs in those states.
Military contractors' stocks gained Friday, with investors relieved the cuts were not deeper. But as past downturns have unfolded, it has often proved easier to reduce weapons systems than personnel and benefits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, and Adm. Mike Mullen announcing the budget plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); POLITICS (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



211 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: SLOW JOB GROWTH DIMS EXPECTATION OF EARLY REVIVAL

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and SEWELL CHAN; Christine Hauser contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The year 2010 ended on a disappointing note, as the economy added just 103,000 jobs in December, suggesting that economic deliverance will not arrive with a great pop in employment.
Signs still point to a long slog of a recovery, with the unemployment rate likely to remain above 8 percent -- it sits at 9.4 percent after Friday's report -- at least through the rest of the president's four-year term.
President Obama is not unaware of the political dangers posed by high unemployment. On Friday he appointed a new head of his National Economic Council, Gene Sperling, to replace the departing Lawrence H. Summers.
The latest report was also a let-down for some within the White House, as recent economic data had suggested that the recovery would gain speed going into 2011. The political stakes are high, as Democrats and Republicans wrestle over who should take credit for the progress of the jobs market, or the blame for its failure to ignite. 
''We need collective patience,'' said William C. Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business. ''You can't recover quickly from a disaster like we've been through.''
With local governments continuing to shed some jobs, all of December's gain came from private employers. In fact, private employment grew each month last year. The unemployment rate, which is based on a separate survey of households, fell from 9.8 percent in November, though a substantial part of that drop is caused by Americans leaving the work force.
Long-term unemployment, however, remains a malady without an easy cure. The percentage of the unemployed who have been without work 27 weeks or longer edged up last month to 44.3 percent, virtually unchanged from a year ago. Other indicators, such as the length of the workweek, remained stagnant.
The challenge, still unsolved, is how to add enough accelerant to light an employment fire. The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Friday that he expected economic growth to be ''moderately stronger'' this year.
''We have seen increased evidence that a self-sustaining recovery in consumer and business spending may be taking hold,'' Mr. Bernanke told the Senate Budget Committee in his first testimony to the new Congress.
He was less optimistic about employment, noting that the job market had ''improved only modestly at best.'' And he added a cautionary forecast: ''It could take four to five more years for the job market to normalize fully.''
Mr. Bernanke noted that housing, an enormous potential driver of middle- and working-class jobs, continued to edge downward. The Fed, he emphasized, plans to proceed with its plans to buy $600 billion worth of government bonds, in hopes of stirring more growth.
President Obama, in a speech at a factory in Landover, Md., accentuated the positive, which was a year of private sector job growth. ''That's the first time that's been true since 2006,'' he said. ''The economy added 1.3 million jobs last year.''
Left unsaid, however, was the fact that job growth was not enough to absorb people entering the work force in the United States, much less to shrink the unemployment rolls.
R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia University's business school and former chairman of the council of economic advisers for President Bush, remains a guarded optimist. He sees signs of the economy gaining speed.
''We could run as high as 200,000 per month this year, but keep in mind that might only bring the unemployment rate down to 9 percent,'' Mr. Hubbard said. ''That does very little for the person who is long-term unemployed.''
The so-called real unemployment rate, which includes those workers who are discouraged or have given up looking for work, stands at 16.7 percent.
Daniel Alpert, managing partner at Westwood Capital, pointed to a disturbing fact in Friday's report. ''We are seeing what appears to be evidence of structural unemployment,'' he said, ''among those in the prime, higher-earning 35- to 44-year-old demographic, where unemployment actually increased in December.''
The president's advisers dispute this. Austan Goolsbee, the chairman of the council of economic advisers, agrees that long-term employment poses a great challenge, but he says there are few signs of European-style structural unemployment, in which job seekers essentially surrender hope.
''We are not cutting them off and dumping them out the door,'' he says. ''The biggest help for them is to drive down the overall employment rate.''
In the days leading up to the Friday report, economists pointed to hopeful signs. Consumer spending was on the rise, businesses were spending more, car sales nosed upward. And private surveys pointed to the possibility of a sharp, even explosive increase in hiring by small and midsize businesses.
Mr. Dunkelberg, however, noted that surveys of his membership showed no strong trend toward such hiring. Fifty percent reported they had no need to seek bank loans, as they had little intention of hiring.
''The consumer still has way too much debt and our members are very cautious,'' he said. ''Their only capital spending going on is to fix a leaking roof.''
Employment growth decelerated a bit toward the end of the year, with the biggest increases coming in October -- the Bureau of Labor Statistics revised that number upward by 38,000 jobs on Friday.
Adam Hersh, an economist with the liberal-leaning Center for American Progress, recently ran a calculation to see when, at the current pace, the nation would regain the number of jobs lost during the great recession. The answer was 2037.
''Look, we have a huge employment crisis,'' Mr. Hersh said.
Much of the growth last month came in the hospitality sector, which added 47,000 jobs. Such jobs, however, tend to provide lower wages and uncertain prospects for long-term employment.
Manufacturing, a source of encouragement earlier this year, added 10,000 jobs. And health services added 36,000, continuing a year-long rise in that area, fed in part by the aging of the American population.
Local governments shed 10,000 workers, fewer than in some past months, and state employment held more or less steady.
For the longer term, economists see hopeful signs. Some take the view that, in retrospect, the recovery of early last year was a false spring, reflecting only the bounce-back from the deep gloom of 2009. Real signs of recovery, including a pickup in shipping and manufacturing, took hold this autumn, they say.
''It's pretty clear the economy went into a swoon last summer,'' said Steve Blitz, senior economist for ITG Investment Research. ''Now the real recovery is beginning, and I expect to see improvement.''
But, he acknowledged, he could as easily point to a glass still half empty. American corporations, sitting atop nearly $2 trillion of cash, are not doing much hiring, even as the president and Congress add the carrots of tax cuts and investment incentives. ''The most disturbing fact is that you're not seeing any breadth in the hiring,'' Mr. Blitz said. ''It's looking to be a slow climb.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joanely Carrero was hired full time at a Target store in Miami a week ago. She previously worked there as a seasonal employee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in December (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); BONDS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



212 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: In Battle Over Health Law, Math Cuts Both Ways

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the health care fight roaring back to life on Capitol Hill, questions that seemed settled last March, when President Obama signed his top domestic priority into law, are once again front and center.
So, will the health care law cost money or save money? Will it create jobs or eliminate jobs? Will it improve outcomes for patients or make medical care more difficult to get?
And, for the love of gravity and basic mathematics, how can the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the official scorekeeper charged with keeping count of the nation's fiscal condition, say that it would cost the government $230 billion over 10 years to repeal a law that would spend $930 billion to extend health insurance to 32 million people?
''I don't think anybody in this town believes that repealing Obamacare is going to increase the deficit,'' the House speaker, John A. Boehner, declared at a news conference on Thursday, dismissing a report by the budget experts concluding that a repeal would add $230 billion to federal deficits from 2012 to 2021. 
But that is exactly what the budget office says, based on a complex thicket of calculations aimed at ascertaining the effect on the government's bottom line of the law's myriad tax increases, cuts in projected Medicare spending and costs of new benefits, including subsidies to help people buy insurance.
House Republicans on Friday pushed ahead with a measure to repeal the law. The House, by a vote of 236 to 181, approved the terms of debate for the repeal proposal, setting up a fierce floor fight next week -- the first major clash of the 112th Congress. The vote showed Republicans easily have the muscle to approve the repeal in a vote scheduled for Wednesday, but the bill is likely to go no further given the staunch opposition in the Democrat-led Senate.
Much of the health care debate will center on cost -- to the government and to employers. On Thursday, Republicans issued their own report, called ''Obamacare: A Budget-Busting Job-Killing Law,'' which concluded, ''The health care law will cost the nation $2.6 trillion when fully implemented, and add $701 billion to the deficit in the first 10 years.''
The Republicans' projections were in contrast to the budget office's analysis of the health care law, and a related budget reconciliation measure, after they were adopted last March. The budget office said those laws would reduce federal deficits by $143 billion through 2019 and even more over the next decade, perhaps by more than $1 trillion.
Democrats have long registered their own complaints about the budget office projections, insisting that the law would do much more to reduce health spending, by the government and by individuals and private businesses. The Democrats said that normal budget scoring rules simply cannot account for many improvements in the way health care will be practiced and delivered in response to the law.
The disparities, while big, are not as hard to understand as they might seem.
There are uncertainties around all of the projections and predictions. And some questions, like whether the law will create or eliminate jobs, improve outcomes for patients or make medical care harder to obtain cannot be answered with any precision. Or at least no one on Capitol Hill seems to have the needed crystal ball.
Conceptually speaking, however, the budget office's projection that the law would spend nearly $1 trillion on benefits and yet reduce deficits is easy to understand. As long as the revenue from new taxes and the savings from reductions in projected Medicare spending exceed the new expenditures by the government, the deficits are reduced.
The criticisms by House Republican leaders of those projections are also mostly straightforward. They say that the budget office should not have counted roughly $70 billion in revenue from premiums for a new long-term care insurance program, because the premiums would be used to pay benefits later and that it should not have counted $53 billion in increased revenue from Social Security taxes because that money must be used for Social Security benefits.
The Republicans also say that the budget rules effectively double-count nearly $400 billion in Medicare savings as both reducing the cost of the health care law and prolonging the life of the Medicare trust fund. They also complain that the projections omitted $115 billion in spending required to administer the law as well as $208 billion needed to prevent scheduled reductions in Medicare payments to doctors.
The director of the budget office, Douglas W. Elmendorf, is the first to acknowledge that there are many uncertainties around the projections. But he has also defended the agency's numbers in public forums and numerous meetings with lawmakers and Congressional staff.
Mr. Elmendorf has stressed that the budget office used the ''middle distribution of likely outcomes,'' meaning that the health care law is just as likely to save the government more money as it is to cost more.
''Assessing the effects of making broad changes in the nation's health care and health insurance systems -- or of reversing scheduled changes -- requires assumptions about a broad array of technical, behavioral and economic factors,'' Mr. Elmendorf wrote in his report Thursday giving the preliminary estimate of the cost of repealing the law.
''However, CBO's staff, in consultation with outside experts, has devoted a great deal of care and effort to the analysis of health care legislation in the past few years, and the agency strives to develop estimates that are in the middle of the distribution of possible outcomes,'' he wrote. ''As a result, CBO believes that its estimates of the net budgetary effects of health care legislation have a roughly equal chance of turning out to be too high or too low.''
Mr. Elmendorf and other experts have said that one of the major areas of uncertainty is the political difficulty Congress may face in carrying out the nearly $500 billion in reductions to projected Medicare spending called for in the law.
They note that Congress has acted repeatedly to avoid cuts in scheduled payments to doctors under a formula established in the 1990's, stipulating that those payments should not exceed a ''sustainable growth rate.''
The chief Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster, has raised serious questions about whether Congress would be able to follow through with the cuts, which he said ''could become unsustainable'' driving some health care providers out of business.
Some of the Republicans' criticisms are based on the longstanding budget scoring rules and conventions, like measuring the financial effects of legislation in a limited 10-year window. While spending will ramp up sharply after the first 10 years, the budget office says, the savings and revenue from taxes will accelerate even faster.
The Democrats designed the health care law so that most of the cuts and new taxes begin early while most of the spending, on insurance subsidies, for instance, begins in 2014. The new taxes include an increase in the individual hospital insurance payroll tax on income above $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for couples, an excise tax on certain high-cost insurance plans and taxes on medical device manufacturers. The costs include a broad expansion in eligibility for Medicaid, the state-federal insurance program for low-income Americans, and new subsidies to help low- and middle-income Americans buy private health insurance.
Mr. Elmendorf, a respected economist and former Clinton administration official who has also worked at the Federal Reserve, was appointed director of the budget office in January 2009 to complete the term of Peter R. Orszag, who left the post to become Mr. Obama's budget director. The term ended on Jan. 3. The chairmen of the House and Senate budget commitees, Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, have said they support Mr. Elemendorf for a full four-year term. But Mr. Boehner has not said if he will back the appointment. The director is selected jointly by the House speaker and the Senate president pro tempore, currently Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii. By law, Mr. Elmendorf can continue in the job until he is reappointed, a successor is named or either chamber of Congress votes to remove him.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about costs associated with health care legislation and its proposed repeal described incorrectly an analysis by the bipartisan Congressional Budget Office. It said its costs estimates -- such as its recent assessment that a repeal would increase the deficit by about $230 billion over 10 years -- have a roughly equal chance of turning out to be too high or too low. The budget office did not say that the health care law is equally likely to save the government money or to cost more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House speaker, John A. Boehner, dismissed a report concluding that a repeal of the health care law would increase deficits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (77%); MEDICARE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); APPROVALS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



213 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: 2 Big Banks Approved For Ventures In China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley said on Friday that they had each won approval from Chinese regulators to form joint ventures in the country, potentially giving them a bigger role in China's booming securities business. 
The two firms are the latest global banks to win the right to team up with local players to underwrite stock and bond offerings in China. Eventually, the joint ventures will be able to sell stocks to Chinese citizens and institutions.
JPMorgan said it would join with First Capital Securities and hold a 33 percent stake in the new firm they establish.
Morgan Stanley said it would hold a 33 percent stake in the joint venture it was forming with Huaxin Securities, also known as China Fortune Securities.
While Wall Street's biggest firms have long taken part in helping Chinese companies list shares on foreign stock exchanges in New York and Hong Kong, they have been frustrated by restrictions on operating in China's domestic market.
For now, Wall Street banks seem content to form joint ventures. In 2004, Goldman Sachs won approval to form a joint venture in China that became Gao Hua Securities. UBS, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank have each formed a Chinese joint venture with a local securities firm in recent years. All the firms hold minority stakes.
Wall Street is eager to expand in China, the world's second-largest economy and the biggest market for initial public offerings. In 2010, Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges together raised about $72 billion in initial public offerings, passing the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges for the first time, according to Dealogic. Chinese companies also raised billions of dollars last year by listing shares in Hong Kong and New York.
To illustrate how lucrative China can be, Citic Securities earned a $935 million profit in 2009, even though the country's stock market was among the worst performing that year. Another local securities firm, Guotai Junan Securities, earned $910 million. Ten of the largest players together earned about $6.4 billion in profit, according to the China Securities Association.
''This is a platform,'' Zili Shao, chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan China, said in a telephone interview Friday. ''We must have this capacity or else our franchise will have a gap'' in the firm's global offerings.
For Morgan Stanley, the new joint venture with Huaxin is a second effort to gain access to China's local securities market. In 1995, Morgan Stanley teamed up with China Construction Bank to form the China International Capital Corporation.
Although Morgan Stanley held a 35 percent stake in a very profitable firm, it lost management control and became a passive investor in the company, which is now led by Levin Zhu, the son of a former Chinese prime minister, Zhu Rongji.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES (95%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BONDS (76%); BOND ISSUES (71%); INTERVIEWS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (97%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (56%); GUOTAI JUNAN SECURITIES CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (97%); JPM (LSE) (97%); 8634 (TSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 0939 (HKSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



214 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; BOOKS JOB MARKET; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Value Added

BYLINE: By AMANDA M. FAIRBANKS

 BODY:
AT a time when recent graduates, age 24 and under, are experiencing a jobless rate of nearly 10 percent, a new study renews the debate over the value-added component of going to college.
The sociologists Richard Arum of New York University and Josipa Roksa of the University of Virginia tracked 2,300 students through four years of college and into the labor market. The first two years are chronicled in their forthcoming book, ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses'' (University of Chicago Press).
This interview with Dr. Arum was conducted and condensed by Amanda M. Fairbanks. 
Q. What piqued your interest in this topic?
A. For the last several decades, we've evaluated learning in K-12 education. But there's never been a serious attempt to follow kids through college. We conclude that large numbers don't appear to be learning very much.
Q.You find that as many as 45 percent of students by sophomore year show little to no progress. What aren't they learning?
A.To gauge their progress, at the start of college and also at the end of each student's sophomore year, we did surveys, collected transcripts and administered something called the Collegiate Learning Assessment, which measures higher education's impact on student learning. We tested them in areas like critical thinking, complex reasoning and written communication. These are the general skills that most people believe should be at the core of undergraduate learning.
Q.These students started college in fall 2005 and graduated into a radically different economic environment in spring 2009. How have they fared since?
A. They're getting hammered. For kids of the great recession, their life trajectories have been fundamentally altered. Whether it has to do in part with their undergraduate education or something more particular to the historic moment we're living in is an open question. Regardless, as global economic competition increases in coming years, U.S. higher education will have to focus more on improving the quality of undergraduate learning.
Q.Describe the cohort since your book leaves off.
A. Since graduating, 60 percent have full-time jobs, nearly 36 percent have moved back home to live with either their parents or relatives and nearly one-tenth are carrying more than $60,000 worth of debt. Of those who have jobs, more than two-thirds were making less than $35,000 a year and 45 percent were earning $15,000 or less.
Q.What can you tell us about those who are succeeding?
A. Employed graduates tended to have not only higher grade-point averages, but also higher test scores. And 20 percent of the time the person who had either interviewed or hired them had attended the same college.
Q.As a professor at New York University, where one year of college costs $50,000 a year, what advice do you give your students?
A. Granted, some of the underlying assumptions are changing. But I advise them to go to college, to get a degree and that the returns will still be significant.
But job or no job, I ask them what levels of debt are reasonable. We've just gone through a period when college graduates did very well. It coincided with an increase in the cost of higher education and subsequent increase in debt loads that students left college with.
When credentials always led to high-paying jobs, we were able to dismiss them as a sort of collateral damage.
Q.So where do we go from here?
A. Crises are opportunities to have serious conversations about the meaning of what college is about, our responsibility to these kids and mostly their responsibility to themselves. When society is booming you can say things like ''college for all'' and who can disagree with it. But what does ''college for all'' mean and what makes it important and meaningful for society to invest in it and, most importantly, for our students to invest in it?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



215 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG; Sticker Shock From Used Cars

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
Shoppers in the market for used cars should brace themselves before heading to dealerships.
With drivers holding onto their cars longer, used-car dealers are finding they have to pay more for good vehicles at auction. Consequently, consumers are paying more for them at dealerships and used-car lots -- sometimes significantly more than they did a just couple of years ago. 
In 2008, during the height of the banking crisis, good deals were abundant, according to Jonathan Banks, executive automotive analyst at the National Automobile Dealers Association, which produces the N.A.D.A. Used Car Guide. Auto dealers use the guide to determine a vehicle's trade-in value.
''No one wanted used cars, and banks weren't lending on used cars,'' Mr. Banks said. ''Gas prices were rising, so the whole used-car market in late 2008 tanked.''
Pickup trucks illustrate the phenomenon well. At the end of 2007, a dealer would pay an average of $14,690 for a one- to five-year-old pickup, whereas by the end of 2008, a dealer would pay $12,160, Mr. Banks said.
''The same pool of vehicles was worth about $3,000 less in one year,'' he said. ''Fast-forward to the end of 2010, and that same pool of pickups is worth about 18 grand.''
That prices rebounded is not remarkable, but the strength of the recovery is ''way beyond what we've historically seen,'' Mr. Banks said.
A one- to five-year-old Ford F-150 SuperCrew XLT V-8 with 4-wheel drive, for example, would have cost a dealer $18,712 at auction at the end of 2007. But in December 2010, the average one- to five-year old model would have cost the dealer $23,040.
The price increases are affecting vehicles in other segments as well, although the math isn't quite as dramatic as with pickups. On average, a one- to five-year-old Honda Accord LX sedan with a 4-cylinder engine would have cost a dealer $12,215 at the end of 2007 and $10,347 at the end of 2008. But now it costs $11,985.
Several factors have conspired to place used-car buyers in this predicament.
For nearly a decade, new-car sales in the United States ranged from 15 million to 17 million units. This allowed for a massive influx of used cars into the market, Mr. Banks said. New-car sales then fell to about 10 million units. Fewer new-car sales meant fewer trade-ins.
Meanwhile, the average age of a trade-in went from 5.3 years in 2005 to 6.1 in 2010, having spiked at seven years in 2009, according to J.D. Power & Associates.
''Banks and finance institutions cut back on leasing, so fewer vehicles are coming back off lease after two to three years,'' said Alec Gutierrez, an analyst with Kelley Blue Book. Combined with the economic downturn, consumer demand has shifted to used vehicles, ''because people need to buy cars eventually,'' Mr. Gutierrez said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); USED CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SEDANS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



216 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Naked Capitalism

BYLINE: By BEN FOUNTAIN. 
Ben Fountain is the author of the story collection ''Brief Encounters With Che Guevara.''

 BODY:
Dallas
JACK RUBY'S fabled Carousel Club may be long gone, but the business of stripping is alive and well in Dallas, as a highly unscientific sampling of area clubs recently showed. While their alcohol sales remain 10 percent to 12 percent below the pre-recession peak, the clubs seem to have fared better in the recession than any other sector of the local economy, a commentary on human nature with implications too profound to be exhausted in a short Op-Ed article.
Dallas clubs run the gamut, from parolee and sailors-on-leave sorts of dives where a mild-mannered writer has no business being, to the high-end establishments with their slathers of French Quarter swank, heavy on gilt and red-velvet. At the Lodge, Dallas's most upscale club, alcohol sales are up more than 11 percent from last year. ''We're doing better than real estate,'' is how Michael Precker, the co-manager, put it. 
Even in a market as competitive as Dallas, which is home to upward of 40 topless clubs, neither Mr. Precker nor Dawn Rizos, the chief executive of the Lodge, could think of a single club that's closed its doors during the past two years. But what, a neophyte might wonder, made Dallas a mecca for strip clubs?
''Because we're in the Bible Belt,'' said Ms. Rizos. ''There's a church on every block, and men just like to sneak around. Most of our customers are married men. They get a little bored with their wives, they can come in here and get some flirtation, our girls make them feel good and special, then they go home and feel so guilty about it that they treat their wives really nicely.''
''It's very Baptist,'' she continued. ''If you're going to give up sin, you got to sin.''
We were having this conversation in the Champagne Room, which with its oak barrels, jeroboams and country-manor decor could pass for the tasting room of a Napa winery. The Library Room features dark wood paneling, club chairs and shelves lined with books-by-the-foot; think of the Harvard Club, except with lots of beautiful, naked women. Ms. Rizos, the daughter of two doctors and sister to three more, opened the Lodge in 1996, in part with money invested from her mother and siblings. (''No bank was going to lend me money to build this place,'' she snorted.)
Ms. Rizos was determined to offer the best food, the prettiest women, the most luxurious setting. She was equally determined that the Lodge would be a good place to work, and so the club has an on-site spa and salon for employees, an on-site wardrobe service, a full-time house mother and a points system for bonuses. Dancers can get tax and investment advice, as well as tuition money for college.
''This is a club that's structured for the girls to make money,'' one dancer told me, a young woman from Milwaukee who traveled to Dallas solely to work at the Lodge. ''Most clubs want their cut of pretty much anything that runs through your hands, and this club isn't like that.''
Be smart, Ms. Rizos and Mr. Precker tell their dancers. Save your money, get educated, buy property. Plan for life after dancing. Some of the waitresses make over $100,000 a year, the top dancers well in excess of that. Ms. Rizos's business model makes a strong case for small-scale capitalism, a model where the focus is long-term, your people are taken care of, and the pay scale is such that everyone is making money.
Even Newt Gingrich knows a good thing when he sees it; his American Solutions organization invited Ms. Rizos to Washington in 2009 to receive an entrepreneur of the year award. The invitation was mysteriously revoked a week before the ceremony, but Ms. Rizos's model still stands in refreshing contrast to what ''capitalism'' has come to mean in recent years, a transnational phalanx of giant corporations that eat their young and flatten everything in their path.
Then again, making the rounds of the clubs, one gets the feeling that even in the best of circumstances, taking off your clothes for a bunch of drunks is a tough way to make a buck. Tough on the ankles and feet (those stilettos). Tough on the head. Tough on the heart. It's a beatdown, acting out a party every night. Most dancers will tell you they wouldn't be dancing if they could make the same money doing something else.
''Why would I show my body if I didn't have to?'' was the way one dancer at a rival operation, the Men's Club, put it. When I asked how she worked through the burnout, she shrugged. ''I just look at my kids,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRISON HAYNES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WRITERS (74%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CLOSINGS (65%); MARRIAGE (64%); RELIGION (64%); WINERIES (61%); PAROLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



217 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Need to Know

 BODY:
WORK in public relations covers a range of industries, with jobs in advertising and P.R. firms, corporations, nonprofit organizations and even college information offices.
JOB MARKET Employment is expected to rise 24 percent by 2018, making P.R. one of the fastest-growing professions. Energy, science and transportation are the top-paying, high-employment fields for information specialists. The economic downturn has taken its toll: salaries are down and competition for coveted corporate positions is fierce. Those with knowledge of business, strategic communications, research, finance and, most important, how to use technology -- especially social media -- have an edge and are best placed for management. 
EARNINGS Average salary in 2010 was $59,370. Agency account executives earn least, at $45,000; corporate senior vice presidents earn most, at $147,000. In P.R. hot spots, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, salaries are significantly higher. The Washington, D.C., area, with its rich mix of government agencies, nonprofits and industry associations, offers the most jobs and pay.
TRAINING More than 300 colleges and universities have bachelor and graduate degrees in public relations, according to PR Week magazine. But quality varies ''dramatically,'' warns Don Wright, who is chairman of Boston University's public relations program and on the board of the Institute for Public Relations. Many institutions have quickly assembled programs in this ''cash cow subject,'' he says. And not every job seeker needs a master's. He and others point to certificate programs or continuing education courses, which are often taught by working professionals, in subjects like social media and business.
PROGRAM SAMPLERColumbia University's School of Continuing Education offers a part-time, 36-credit master's degree in strategic communications ($50,000 tuition). The M.S. in public relations and corporate communications from New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies can be done full or part time ($52,000). Georgetown University's School of Continuing Studies has a 30-credit master's of professional studies in public relations and corporate communications. Its courses run two evenings a week ($25,000 tuition). A five-course certificate is also an option ($12,500).
Other well-regarded programs include those at University of Maryland, Syracuse University, Boston University, University of Southern California and University of Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



218 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4752 words

HEADLINE: Is Law School a Losing Game?

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
IF there is ever a class in how to remain calm while trapped beneath $250,000 in loans, Michael Wallerstein ought to teach it.
Here he is, sitting one afternoon at a restaurant on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, a tall, sandy-haired, 27-year-old radiating a kind of surfer-dude serenity. His secret, if that's the right word, is to pretty much ignore all the calls and letters that he receives every day from the dozen or so creditors now hounding him for cash.
''And I don't open the e-mail alerts with my credit score,'' he adds. ''I can't look at my credit score any more.''
Mr. Wallerstein, who can't afford to pay down interest and thus watches the outstanding loan balance grow, is in roughly the same financial hell as people who bought more home than they could afford during the real estate boom. But creditors can't foreclose on him because he didn't spend the money on a house. 
He spent it on a law degree. And from every angle, this now looks like a catastrophic investment.
Well, every angle except one: the view from law schools. To judge from data that law schools collect, and which is published in the closely parsed U.S. News and World Report annual rankings, the prospects of young doctors of jurisprudence are downright rosy.
In reality, and based on every other source of information, Mr. Wallerstein and a generation of J.D.'s face the grimmest job market in decades. Since 2008, some 15,000 attorney and legal-staff jobs at large firms have vanished, according to a Northwestern Law study. Associates have been laid off, partners nudged out the door and recruitment programs have been scaled back or eliminated.
And with corporations scrutinizing their legal expenses as never before, more entry-level legal work is now outsourced to contract temporary employees, both in the United States and in countries like India. It's common to hear lawyers fret about the sort of tectonic shift that crushed the domestic steel industry decades ago.
But improbably enough, law schools have concluded that life for newly minted grads is getting sweeter, at least by one crucial measure. In 1997, when U.S. News first published a statistic called ''graduates known to be employed nine months after graduation,'' law schools reported an average employment rate of 84 percent. In the most recent U.S. News rankings, 93 percent of grads were working -- nearly a 10-point jump.
In the Wonderland of these statistics, a remarkable number of law school grads are not just busy -- they are raking it in. Many schools, even those that have failed to break into the U.S. News top 40, state that the median starting salary of graduates in the private sector is $160,000. That seems highly unlikely, given that Harvard and Yale, at the top of the pile, list the exact same figure.
How do law schools depict a feast amid so much famine?
''Enron-type accounting standards have become the norm,'' says William Henderson of Indiana University, one of many exasperated law professors who are asking the American Bar Association to overhaul the way law schools assess themselves. ''Every time I look at this data, I feel dirty.''
IT is an open secret, Professor Henderson and others say, that schools finesse survey information in dozens of ways. And the survey's guidelines, which are established not by U.S. News but by the American Bar Association, in conjunction with an organization called the National Association for Law Placement, all but invite trimming.
A law grad, for instance, counts as ''employed after nine months'' even if he or she has a job that doesn't require a law degree. Waiting tables at Applebee's? You're employed. Stocking aisles at Home Depot? You're working, too.
Number-fudging games are endemic, professors and deans say, because the fortunes of law schools rise and fall on rankings, with reputations and huge sums of money hanging in the balance. You may think of law schools as training grounds for new lawyers, but that is just part of it.
They are also cash cows.
Tuition at even mediocre law schools can cost up to $43,000 a year. Those huge lecture-hall classes -- remember ''The Paper Chase''? -- keep teaching costs down. There are no labs or expensive equipment to maintain. So much money flows into law schools that law professors are among the highest paid in academia, and law schools that are part of universities often subsidize the money-losing fields of higher education.
''If you're a law school and you add 25 kids to your class, that's a million dollars, and you don't even have to hire another teacher,'' says Allen Tanenbaum, a lawyer in Atlanta who led the American Bar Association's commission on the impact of the economic crisis on the profession and legal needs. ''That additional income goes straight to the bottom line.''
There were fewer complaints about fudging and subsidizing when legal jobs were plentiful. But student loans have always been the financial equivalent of chronic illnesses because there is no legal way to shake them. So the glut of diplomas, the dearth of jobs and those candy-coated employment statistics have now yielded a crop of furious young lawyers who say they mortgaged their future under false pretenses. You can sample their rage, and their admonitions, on what are known as law school scam blogs, with names like Shilling Me Softly, Subprime JD and Rose Colored Glasses.
''Avoid this overpriced sewer pit as if your life depended on it,'' writes the anonymous author of the blog Third Tier Reality -- a reference to the second-to-bottom tier of the U.S. News rankings -- in a typically scatological review. ''Unless, of course, you think that you will be better off with $110k-$190k in NON-DISCHARGEABLE debt for a degree that qualifies you to wait tables at the Battery Park Bar and Lounge.''
But so far, the warnings have been unheeded. Job openings for lawyers have plunged, but law schools are not dialing back enrollment. About 43,000 J.D.'s were handed out in 2009, 11 percent more than a decade earlier, and the number of law schools keeps rising -- nine new ones in the last 10 years, and five more seeking approval to open in the future.
Apparently, there is no shortage of 22-year-olds who think that law school is the perfect place to wait out a lousy economy and the gasoline that fuels this system -- federally backed student loans -- is still widely available. But the legal market has always been obsessed with academic credentials, and today, few students except those with strong grade-point averages at top national and regional schools can expect a come-hither from a deep-pocketed firm. Nearly everyone else is in for a struggle. Which is why many law school professors privately are appalled by what they describe as a huge and continuing transfer of wealth, from students short on cash to richly salaried academics. Or perhaps this is more like a game of three-card monte, with law schools flipping the aces and a long line of eager players, most wagering borrowed cash, in a contest that few of them can win.
And all those losers can remain cash-poor for a long time. ''I think the student loans that kids leave law school with are more scandalous than payday loans,'' says Andrew Morriss, a law professor at the University of Alabama. ''And because it's so easy to get a student loan, law school tuition has grossly outpaced the rate of inflation for the last 20 years. It's now astonishingly high.''
Like everything else about the law, however, the full picture here is complicated. Independent surveys find that most law students would enroll even if they knew that only a tiny number of them would wind up with six-figure salaries. Nearly all of them, it seems, are convinced that they're going to win the ring toss at this carnival and bring home the stuffed bear.
And many students enroll for reasons other than immediate financial returns. Mr. Wallerstein, for instance, was drawn by the prestige of the degree. He has no regrets, at least for now, even though he seems doomed to a type of indentured servitude at least through his 30s.
''Law school might not be worth it for another 10 or 15 years,'' he says, ''but the riskier approach always has the bigger payoff.''
True, say Professor Henderson and his allies. But he contends that law schools -- which, let's not forget, require students to take courses on disclosure and ethics -- have a special moral obligation to tell the truth about themselves. It's an obligation that persists, he says, even if students would sign on the dotted line no matter what.
''You're beginning your legal education at an institution that is engaging in the kind of disreputable practices that we would be incredibly disappointed to discover our graduates engaging in,'' he says. ''What we have here is powder keg, and if law schools don't solve this problem, there will be a day when the Federal Trade Commission, or some plaintiff's lawyer, shows up and says 'This looks like illegal deception.'''
WHEN he started in 2006, Michael Wallerstein knew little about the Thomas Jefferson School of Law, other than that it was in San Diego, which seemed like a fine place to spend three years.
''I looked at schools in Pennsylvania and Long Island,'' he says, ''but I thought, why not go somewhere I'll enjoy?''
Mr. Wallerstein is chatting over lunch one recent afternoon with his fiancee, Karin Michonski. She, too, seems unperturbed by his dizzying collection of i.o.u.'s. Despite those debts, she hopes that he does not wind up in one of those time-gobbling corporate law jobs.
''We like hanging out together,'' she says with a laugh.
If love paid the bills, these two would be debt-free tomorrow. But it doesn't, and Mr. Wallerstein has no money in the bank, no assets and -- aside from the occasional job as a legal temp -- no wages to garnish. He and Ms. Michonski live rent-free in a nearby brownstone, in return for keeping an eye on the elderly man who owns the place.
''Sometimes the banks will threaten to sue,'' he says, ''but one of the first things you learn in law school, in civil procedure class, is that it doesn't make sense to sue someone who doesn't have anything.''
He remembers little about the promotional materials the Thomas Jefferson school sent when he applied in 2006, other than a pamphlet with lots of promising numbers. That was before the economy crumbled, but the school's postgraduate data still looks fabulous, particularly given its spot in the fourth and bottom tier of U.S. News's rankings. The most recent survey says 92 percent of Thomas Jefferson grads were employed nine months after they earned their degrees.
Beth Kransberger, associate dean of student affairs at Thomas Jefferson, stands by that figure, noting that it includes 25 percent of those graduates who could not be located, as well as anyone who went on to other graduate studies -- all perfectly kosher under the guidelines.
Like lots of administrators, she defends the figures she gathers and laments that so many other schools are manipulating results.
''You need to take the high road,'' she said. ''Schools that are behaving the most ethically want students who come to law school with their eyes open.''
Even students with open eyes, though, will have a hard time sleuthing through the U.S. News rankings. They are based entirely on unaudited surveys conducted by each law school, using questions devised by the American Bar Association and the National Association for Law Placement. Given the stakes and given that the figures are not double-checked by an impartial body, each school faces exactly the sort of potential conflict of interest lawyers are trained to howl about.
The surveys themselves have a built-in bias. As many deans acknowledge, the results are skewed because graduates with high-paying jobs are more likely to respond than people earning $9 an hour at Radio Shack. (Those who don't respond are basically invisible, aside from reducing the overall response rate of the survey.)
Certain definitions in the surveys seem open to abuse. A person is employed after nine months, for instance, if he or she is working on Feb. 15. This is the most competitive category -- it counts for about one-seventh of the U.S. News ranking -- and in the upper echelons, it's not unusual to see claims of 99 percent and, in a handful of cases, 100 percent employment rates at nine months.
A number of law schools hire their own graduates, some in hourly temp jobs that, as it turns out, coincide with the magical date. Last year, for instance, Georgetown Law sent an e-mail to alums who were ''still seeking employment.'' It announced three newly created jobs in admissions, paying $20 an hour. The jobs just happened to start on Feb. 1 and lasted six weeks.
A spokeswoman for the school said that none of these grads were counted as ''employed'' as a result of these hourly jobs. In a lengthy exchange of e-mails and calls, several different explanations were offered, the oddest of which came from Gihan Fernando, the assistant dean of career services. He said in an interview that Georgetown Law had ''lost track'' of two of the three alums, even though they were working at the very institution that was looking for them.
As absurd as the rankings might sound, deans ignore them at their peril, and those who guide their schools higher up the U.S. News chart are rewarded with greater alumni donations, better students and jobs at higher-profile schools.
''When I was a candidate for this job,'' said Phillip J. Closius, the dean of the University of Baltimore School of Law, ''I said 'I can talk for 10 minutes about the fallacies of the U.S. News rankings,' but nobody wants to hear about fallacies. There are millions of dollars riding on students' decisions about where to go to law school, and that creates real institutional pressures.''
Mr. Closius came from the University of Toledo College of Law, where he lifted the school to No. 83 from No. 140, he said. Among his strategies: shifting about 40 students with lower LSAT scores into the part-time program. Because part-time students didn't then count in the U.S. News survey -- the rules have since been changed -- Toledo's bar passage rate rose, which helped its ranking.
''You can call it massaging the data if you want, but I never saw it that way,'' he says. Weaker students wound up with lighter course loads, which meant that fewer of them flunked out. In his estimation, a dean who pays attention to the U.S. News rankings isn't gaming the system; he's making the school better.
Unfortunately, he says, not all schools play fair.
Of course, fair play is hardly encouraged. Any institution with the guts to report, say, a 4 percent drop in postgraduate employment would plunge in the rankings, leaving the dean to explain a lot of convoluted math, and the case for unvarnished truth, to a bunch of angry students and alums.
Critics of the rankings often cast the issue in moral terms, but the problem, as many professors have noted, is structural. A school that does not aggressively manage its ranking will founder, and because there are no cops on this beat, there is no downside to creative accounting. In such circumstances, the numbers are bound to look cheerier, even as the legal market flat-lines.
''We ought to be doing a better job for our students and spend less time worrying about whether another school is five spots ahead,'' says David N. Yellen, dean of the Loyola University Chicago School of Law. ''But in the real world you can't escape from the pressures. We're all sort of trapped. I don't know if anyone is out-and-out lying, but I do know that a lot of schools are hyping a lot of misleading statistics.''
WHEN Mr. Wallerstein started at Thomas Jefferson, he was in no mood for austerity. He borrowed so much that before the start of his first semester he nearly put a down payment on a $350,000 two-bedroom, two-bath condo, figuring that the investment would earn a profit by the time he graduated. He was ready to ink the deal until a rep at the mortgage giant Countrywide asked if his employer at the time -- a trade magazine publisher in New Jersey -- would write a letter falsely stating that he was moving to San Diego for work.
''We were on a three-way call with my real estate agent and I said I didn't feel comfortable with that,'' he says. ''The Countrywide guy chuckled and said, 'Everyone lies on their mortgage application.' ''
Instead, Mr. Wallerstein rented a spacious apartment. He also spent a month studying in the South of France and a month in Prague -- all on borrowed money. There were cost-of-living loans, and tuition of about $33,000 a year. Later came a $15,000 loan to cover months of studying for the bar.
Today, his best guess is that he should be sending $2,000 to $3,000 a month in total, to lenders that include Wells Fargo, Citibank and Sallie Mae.
''There are a bunch of others,'' he says. ''I'm not really good at keeping records.''
Mr. Wallerstein didn't know it at the time, but Thomas Jefferson leads the nation's law schools in at least one category: 95 percent of students graduate with debt, the highest rate in the U.S. News rankings.
The reason, Ms. Kransberger says, is that many Thomas Jefferson students are either immigrants or, like Mr. Wallerstein, the first person in their family to get a law degree; statistically those are both groups with generally little or modest means. When Ms. Kransberger meets applicants engaged in what she calls ''magical thinking'' about their finances, she advises them to defer for a year or two until they are on stronger footing.
''But I don't think you can act as a moral educator,'' she says. ''Should we really be saying to students who don't have family help, 'No, you shouldn't have access to law school'? That's a tough argument to make.''
It's an argument complicated by the reality that a small fraction of graduates are still winning the Big Law sweepstakes. Yes, they tend to hail from the finest law schools, and have the highest G.P.A.'s. But still.
''Who's to say to any particular student, 'You won't be the one to get the $160,000-a-year job,' '' says Steven Greenberger, a dean at the DePaul College of Law. ''I think they should have all the info, and the info should be accurate, but saying once they know that they shouldn't be allowed to come, that's predicated on the idea that students are really ignorant and don't know what is best for them.''
Based on the seething and regret you hear from some law school grads, more than a few wish that someone had been patronizing enough to say, ''Oh no you don't.'' But it's often hard to convince students about the potential downside of law school, says Kimber A. Russell, a 37-year-old graduate of DePaul, who writes the Shilling Me Softly blog.
''This idea of exceptionalism -- I don't know if it's a thing with millennials, or what,'' she says, referring to the generation now in its 20s. ''Even if you tell them the bottom has fallen out of the legal market, they're all convinced that none of the bad stuff will happen to them. It's a serious, life-altering decision, going to law school, and you're dealing with a lot of naive students who have never had jobs, never paid real bills.''
Graduates who have been far more vigilant about their finances than Mr. Wallerstein are in trouble. Today, countless J.D.'s are paying their bills with jobs that have nothing do with the law, and they are losing ground on their debt every day. Stories are legion of young lawyers enlisting in the Army or folding pants at Lululemon. Or baby-sitting, like Carly Rosenberg, of the Brooklyn Law School class of 2009.
''I guess I kind of assumed that someone would hook me up with something,'' she says. She has sent out 15 to 20 resumes a week since March, when she passed the bar. So far, nothing.
Jason Bohn, who received his J.D. from the University of Florida, is earning $33 an hour as a legal temp while strapped to more than $200,000 in loans, nearly all of which he accumulated as an undergraduate and while working on a master's degree at Columbia University.
''I grew up a ward of the state of New York, so I don't have any parents to call for help,'' Mr. Bohn says. ''For my sanity, I have to think there is an end in sight.''
AS a student, Mr. Wallerstein assumed that the very scale of law school -- all the paperwork, all the professors, all the tests -- implied that pots of gold awaited anyone with smarts, charm and a willingness to work hard. He began to doubt that assumption when the firm where he had interned told him that it hadn't been profitable for two years and could not offer him a full-time job.
Mr. Wallerstein and his fiancee moved back East after graduation, and he landed a job at a small firm in Queens. He says he was paid $10 an hour and worked for a manager who seemed to have walked straight out of a Dickens novel. Over a firm-wide lunch, as Labor Day approached, she asked employees to thank her, one at a time, for giving them the holiday off.
''When it was my turn, I said, 'Labor Day is about celebrating the 40-hour workweek, weekends, that sort of thing,' '' Mr. Wallerstein recalls. ''She said, 'Well, workers have that now so you don't need a day off to celebrate it.' ''
He lasted less than a month.
Since then, he has found jobs at temporary projects reviewing documents. The latest of these gigs is in office space rented on the 11th floor of the Viacom building in Times Square. He sits in a small, windowless room with five other lawyers, all clicking through page after page of documents on computers under fluorescent lights. The walls are bare except for the name of each lawyer, tacked overhead.
''Welcome to the veal pen,'' said one during a tour two weeks ago.
The job is set up through a company called Peak Discovery, which put an ad on Craigslist, seeking 100 lawyers. ''We got about 300 responses overnight,'' said John Thacher, who is managing the project.
Mr. Thacher has managed about 2,500 people in his six years in the temporary legal business, and maybe five of them have gone on to associate jobs in law firms, the kind of work that nearly everyone aspires to when entering law school.
''Most of us either went to the wrong law school, which is the bottom two-thirds, or we were too old when we graduated,'' he said. ''I was 32 when I graduated, and at 32 you're washed up in this field, in terms of a shot at the real deal. They perceived me as somebody they can't indoctrinate into slave labor and work to death for seven years and then release if they don't like you.''
This gets to what might be the ultimate ugly truth about law school: plenty of those who borrow, study and glad-hand their way into the gated community of Big Law are miserable soon after they move in. The billable-hour business model pins them to their desks and devours their free time.
Hence the cliche: law school is a pie-eating contest where the first prize is more pie.
Law school defenders note that huge swaths of the country lack adequate and affordable access to lawyers, which suggests that the issue here isn't oversupply so much as maldistribution. But when the numbers are crunched, studies find that most law students need to earn around $65,000 a year to get the upper hand on their debt.
That kind of money is hard to earn hanging a shingle in rural Ohio or in public defenders' offices, the budgets of which are often being cut. As elusive, and inhospitable, as jobs in Big Law may be, they are one of the few ways for new grads to keep out of delinquency.
The mismatch of student expectations and likely postgraduate outcomes is starting to yield some embarrassing headlines. In October, a student at Boston College Law School made news by posting online an open letter to the dean, offering to leave the school if he could get his tuition money back.
''With fatherhood impending,'' wrote the student, whose name was redacted, ''I go to bed every night terrified of the thought of trying to provide for my child AND paying off my J.D., and resentful at the thought that I was convinced to go to law school by empty promises of a fulfilling and remunerative career.''
After a few years of warnings by concerned professors, the American Bar Association is now studying whether it should refine the questions in its surveys in order to get more realistic and useful statistics for the U.S. News rankings. In mid-December, the organization held a two-day hearing in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., about the collection of job placement data.
''There is a legitimate question about whether we're asking for detailed-enough info and displaying that info for those who use it,'' says Bucky Askew of the bar association. ''I think it's fair to say we're aware of the criticism and have a committee working to getting to the bottom of this.''
And what about U.S. News? The editors could, but won't unilaterally demand better data from law schools. ''Do we have the power to do that? Yes, I think we do,'' said Robert Morse, who oversees the law school rankings. ''But we'd have to create a whole new definition of 'employed,' and it would be awkward if U.S. News imposed that definition by itself. It would be preferable if the A.B.A. took a leadership role in this.''
Instead of overhauling the rankings, some professors say, the solution may be to get law schools and the bar association out of the stat-collection business. Steven Greenberger of DePaul recommends a mandatory warning -- a bit like the labels on cigarette packs -- that every student taking the LSAT, the prelaw standardized test, must read.
''Something like 'Law school tuition is expensive and here is what the actual cost will be, the job market is uncertain and you should carefully consider whether you want to pursue this degree,' '' he says. ''And it should be made absolutely clear to students, that if they sign up for X amount of debt, their monthly nut will be X in three years.''
Another approach would be to limit class sizes or the number of new law schools. But the bar association, which is granted accrediting authority by the Department of Education, says that it would run afoul of antitrust law if it imposed such limits.
Today, American law schools are like factories that no force has the power to slow down -- not even the timeless dictates of supply and demand.
Solving the J.D. overabundance problem, according to Professor Henderson, will have to involve one very drastic measure: a bunch of lower-tier law schools will need to close. But nobody inside of the legal establishment, he predicts, has the stomach for that. ''Ultimately,'' he says, ''some public authority will have to step in because law schools and lawyers are incapable of policing themselves.''
MR. WALLERSTEIN, for his part, is not complaining. Once you throw in the intangibles of having a J.D., he says, he is one of law schools' satisfied customers.
''It's a prestige thing,'' he says. ''I'm an attorney. All of my friends see me as a person they look up to. They understand I'm in a lot of debt, but I've done something they feel they could never do and the respect and admiration is important.''
Compared with the life he left four years ago, he has lost ground. That research position in Newark, he figures, would pay him $60,000 a year now, with benefits. Instead, he's vying with a crowd for jobs that pay at rates just a little higher, but that last only a few weeks at a time, with no benefits. And he's a quarter-million dollars in the hole.
Unless, somehow, the debt just goes away. Another of Mr. Wallerstein's techniques for remaining cool in a serious financial pickle: believe that the pickle might somehow disappear.
''Bank bailouts, company bailouts -- I don't know, we're the generation of bailouts,'' he says in a hallway during a break from his Peak Discovery job. ''And like, this debt of mine is just sort of, it's a little illusory. I feel like at some point, I'll negotiate it away, or they won't collect it.''
He gives a slight shrug and a smile as he heads back to work. ''It could be worse,'' he says. ''It's not like they can put me jail.''
Correction: January 16, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about law schools misstated the educational history of Jason Bohn, a recent law school graduate.While Mr. Bohn took classes at Columbia Law School, his law degree is from the University of Florida. And while nearly all of his student loan debt was accumulated at Columbia University, it was incurred while he was an undergraduate and while working on a master's degree, and not at Columbia Law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William Henderson of Indiana University says law schools have a moral obligation to tell the truth about themselves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6)
Kimber A. Russell, who has a J.D., writes a blog about the high debts and grim job prospects facing law school graduates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael Wallerstein, who has a law degree, has $250,000 in loans and only the occasional job as a legal temp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) (BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); OUTSOURCING (69%); RANKINGS (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



219 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: A Civil Ending to a Civil War

BYLINE: By MURITHI MUTIGA. 
Murithi Mutiga is a reporter and columnist for The Sunday Nation in Nairobi, Kenya.

 BODY:
Juba, Sudan
BEGINNING today voters in southern Sudan will start going to the polls in a referendum on whether the region should secede. The outcome is all but settled in favor of self-determination, but that fact has done little to diminish the excitement here in the semi-autonomous region's capital and elsewhere over the last several weeks.
It has been a long struggle: the south, where most people are Christians or animists, have fought for independence since 1956, when the British abruptly handed control of the country to the mainly Muslim and Arab north, and the conflict has cost nearly two million lives. 
But the excitement is tempered by anxiety about the path ahead. If secession is approved, the 2005 peace deal that established the referendum requires the parties to work on a raft of agreements, to settle issues like demarcation of the border, oil-revenue sharing, the fate of the oil-rich Abyei region (which straddles the north-south border), citizenship and division of the country's vast international debt.
Five years after the deal was signed, there is still no consensus on any of these -- yet according to the deal the two sides have just six months to resolve them.
The amount of work ahead means the guarantors of the 2005 agreement, including the United States, the European Union, regional players and the United Nations, must invest considerable energy to ensure the two sides resolve the outstanding issues amicably. Otherwise, a new, more brutal conflict is possible.
Of these partners, southerners consider the United States to be the one that can make sure that the government in Khartoum stays in line. Just consider how they greeted Salva Kiir, the president of southern Sudan, after he returned in October from the United Nations.
In his address there, Mr. Kiir had accused the northern administration of Omar Hassan al-Bashir of trying to derail the referendum and stalling a parallel referendum in Abyei.
Mr. Kiir's arrival in Juba was practically a national holiday: banks shuttered, and doctors and nurses, still in their scrubs, left hospitals to see his convoy pass by. But he wasn't the only one receiving praise. As his cars wound their way into a stadium where he would give a speech, the master of ceremonies cried, ''New Sudan Oyee!'' ''Salva Kiir Oyee!'' ''Obama Oyee!'' ''Clinton Oyee!''
Less often praised, for obvious reasons, is Mr. Bashir, who, despite prosecuting bloody conflicts across the country and opposing southern independence for years, has also finally adopted a pragmatic stance regarding the referendum.
If southerners endorse separation, Mr. Bashir will preside over the breakup of Africa's largest country and the loss of a third of its territory, as well as about 80 percent of its proven oil reserves.
These losses will be hard for northerners to accept, but they will be particularly hard for Mr. Bashir and his government, which is already at its weakest point since it assumed power in a coup in 1989.
If the north perceives it has little to gain from the post-referendum arrangements, it might return to fomenting trouble in the south, a significant problem for a southern leadership already grappling with the task of nation-building.
Fortunately, recent history shows that international pressure, and especially pressure from Washington, can lead to impressive results. The Bush administration, for example, played a critical part in the peace negotiations in Kenya that led to the 2005 agreement, and the United States has done much to ensure that this week's referendum takes place.
President Obama can, for example, offer numerous incentives to the Khartoum regime, like removing it from the State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism, lifting some economic sanctions and negotiating debt relief.
The United States could also promise an exchange of ambassadors and resumed trade and investment if the north works honestly to end the conflict in Darfur, in western Sudan, and concludes peace agreements in the South Kordofan and Blue Nile border regions.
Economic negotiations are critical as well. Washington should bring the two sides to some level of continued economic and social integration. A transparent oil-revenue-sharing arrangement would give the south the time to build the pipelines it needs to send its crude oil to processing plants elsewhere than the north.
Critics, especially human rights groups in the United States, say it is morally wrong for the Obama administration to engage at all with Mr. Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for the genocide in Darfur.
But that view is short-sighted: the negotiations behind the 2005 accord took place as the massacres in Darfur were drawing world attention; the Bush White House recognized that, deplorable as the Bashir regime was, it was impossible to achieve peace in the south without engaging with Khartoum.
The real challenge will be convincing southerners that, having separated, they must now negotiate and even compromise with Mr. Bashir. Southerners see their region's oil reserves as the key to their future, and they blame the north for depriving them of potential revenues.
Indeed, southern Sudan boasts some of the continent's largest oil deposits, yet the region is one of the poorest parts of sub-Saharan Africa. According to the World Bank, 85 percent of southerners live in poverty, compared with 46 percent of people in the north.
For now, though, there is no alternative to compromise: after all, it will take at least three years to build a new pipeline. At this juncture, the south's leadership would do well to play the long game and agree to a deal with the north to ensure that the post-referendum period passes peacefully.
Mr. Kiir and others must not forget that the goal is freedom and sovereignty. A credible referendum will set the south on the road to engaging with the north on equal terms, something they have struggled to achieve for over half a century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); RELIGION (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



220 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: A Passionate Politician and a Friend to Colleagues, Bikers and Lost Mayors

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Unusual is a relative term in American political life, but Representative Gabrielle Giffords fits the bill: avid equestrian and motorcycle enthusiast, repository of arcane health care data, successful Democrat elected three times in a Republican Congressional district, French horn player and wife of an astronaut.
Ms. Giffords, who was shot and critically wounded while meeting with constituents in her district in southern Arizona on Saturday, is widely admired and liked in her state and the nation's capital for more than her political smarts. Friends and associates describe her as the first person to arrange a party for a departing colleague, the one who will walk you across the Capitol complex to make sure you know your way, the person whom even former political opponents call a friend. 
Politically, Ms. Giffords, 40, is as passionate as she is independent. She is a longtime proponent of gun rights and tough border security -- she once put out a news release ahead of President Obama announcing an increase of troops at the border. She also sided with motorcycle riders who favor state legislation to ride helmet-free, as she does.
But she was equally ardent in her support of the health care overhaul last year, and once told a reporter she was prepared to lose her seat to defend it. A comer in Arizona, where she was born and grew up, Ms. Giffords was widely considered as a strong future candidate for statewide office in a state where Democrats ride uphill.
''We once got into a conversation about the meaning of life,'' said Tom Zoellner, a friend of Ms. Giffords's and volunteer on two of her campaigns. ''And she had sort of made an existential decision that life was about helping other people, that life was about public service, and she was going to arrange her life around that idea.''
But it is her personality, more than her politics, that has attracted her many fans.
''When something bad happened to you, she is the first person that would show up and talk to you about it,'' said Jonathan Paton, a former Arizona state senator whom Ms. Giffords defeated in 2000. Mr. Paton later won in another district, becoming her colleague.
''We would tease each other all of the time, her being a Democrat and me a Republican,'' he said. ''I remember when I won my primary the first time, she called to congratulate me. Let's put it this way: you've got to be a pretty kind person if the person you once ran against and beat is as emotionally distraught as I am now.''
The mayor of Phoenix, Phil Gordon, recalled seeing Ms. Giffords on Capitol Hill one day, when he was wandering aimlessly in the snow. ''I was lost,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''She had only been there a year herself, and she grabbed me, despite the fact she was going to her office, and took me across the street to where I needed to go. Taking a lost mayor from another city that isn't even in your district is not something many people would do.''
Ms. Giffords was born in Tucson, graduated from Cornell University and Scripps College and worked in both economic development and her family's tire and automotive business before entering politics.
She served in the Arizona Legislature from 2001 through 2005. After serving in the Arizona House of Representatives, she became the youngest woman ever elected to the Arizona State Senate.
Tapped by her party in 2006 to run for the House of Representatives, Ms. Giffords, helped by her connections within her district and a weak Republican opponent, prevailed, becoming the state's first Jewish congresswoman and the third woman ever to represent Arizona.
''It's a conservative district, but she is probably one of the few people who could have won it,'' said Jim Pederson, the former head of the Arizona Democratic Party. ''She is an extremely hard-working person, a very able fund-raiser. Most of all it's her personality. She is constantly on the phone. I get an average of a call every 10 days from her. Now I supported her and contributed to her campaign, but I do that with a lot of candidates. Not a lot of people who have that kind of loyalty and follow-through.''
Ms. Giffords, who was known around the Hill as Gabby, was far more likely to be found locked in a room with a book on solar energy -- another one of her pet issues -- than at one of the local watering holes.
Mr. Zoellner said he once left a six-pack of beer in her Washington refrigerator with a note, ''Use only in case of emergency,'' and found it, unmoved, two years later when he borrowed the place.
In 2007, she married a Navy captain, Mark E. Kelly, making her the only member of Congress with an active-duty spouse.
The two met in China, as young leaders selected by the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, and have spent much of their relationship apart, due to their respective professional lives. Mr. Kelly has been an astronaut since 1996.
''The longest amount of time we've spent together is probably a couple of weeks at a stretch,'' Mr. Kelly told The New York Times in an article that talked about their wedding. ''We won't always live this way, but this is how we started. It's what we've always done. It teaches you not to sweat the small stuff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, getting a hug from a supporter in Tucson in November, and at her wedding to Capt. Mark E. Kelly in Amado, Ariz., in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELLY PRESNELL/ARIZONA DAILY STAR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 NORMA JEAN GARGASZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); MOTORCYCLES (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); GUN CONTROL (68%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (57%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



221 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 8601 words

HEADLINE: The 41 Places to Go in 2011

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
From the beaches of Mexico to the wilds of Kurdistan, the places on this year's list take you to the end of the world and back.
1. Santiago, Chile Undaunted by an earthquake, a city embraces modern culture.
Less than a year after an 8.8-magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc in Chile, its capital, Santiago, has largely recovered, the economy continues to grow, and tourism is in an upswing.
Though the quake, which caused hundreds of casualties, was centered more than 200 miles away, many of Santiago's older buildings were damaged, including the Museum of Fine Arts.
But the earthquake last year -- and another in Chile last week that caused more panic than damage -- seems to have only briefly paused a cultural shift that had begun to take hold in the city. Known as a buttoned-up place, Santiago has in recent years added modern museums, smartly designed hotels and sophisticated restaurants. The city has become decidedly more vibrant. 
This year, it has even been chosen as the first foreign city to host a rather unbuttoned event: Lollapalooza. The 20-year-old American music festival picked Santiago for its first overseas outing because of its open space and the variety of cultural offerings, and because locals have a passion for contemporary music, said Lollapalooza's founder, the musician Perry Farrell. The festival takes place in April in O'Higgins Park.
This musical awakening owes much to the government's investment in the arts. The new Centro Gabriela Mistral, for example, a 200,000-square-foot center made of glass and weathering steel, has a varied calendar of concerts, dance performances, plays and art exhibits.
Perhaps the most remarkable cultural space to open in the last few years is the Museo de la Moda, a privately financed fashion museum inside a revamped 1960s Modernist mansion. It has a permanent collection of nearly 10,000 pieces of couture and memorabilia (of which 800 are typically on display), including a light-blue jacket worn in 1966 by John Lennon and a black strapless gown worn in 1981 by Diana, Princess of Wales.
Luxury hotels are not new to Santiago, but when the W opened in 2009, it was the first to feature truly modern design. The recently opened Aubrey is equally chic and much more intimate. With an attractive mix of vintage and new furniture (Tom Dixon lamps, 19th-century Parisian rugs, tufted leather sofas), the 15-room property raised the bar for boutique lodgings in the city. It occupies two renovated residences in the Bellavista neighborhood, a creative district where Lollapalooza's fans would feel right at home. -- PAOLA SINGER
2. San Juan Islands, Wash. Bold-face restaurateurs vie with unspoiled nature. Nature wins.
The big draw for the San Juan Islands this year just might be its dining scene. Blaine Wetzel, a former chef at the wildly acclaimed Copenhagen restaurant Noma, took the reins at Willows Inn on Lummi Island (due to reopen on Feb. 10), while Lisa Nakamura, who has trained with big-name chefs like Thomas Keller, opened Allium on Orcas Island.
But the eternal lure of the San Juans -- what brings chefs out as well as tourists -- are the landscapes. On islands from Shaw to Decatur, pastoral hills give way to broody forests and scrappy escarpments that overlook fjordlike inlets. Thanks to an active land preservation effort by organizations like the San Juan County Land Bank, each year new areas are protected from logging or unruly development, and in turn provide fresh terrain for the public to explore.
Last year, the San Juan Island National Historic Park grew by 312 acres with the purchase of densely forested Mitchell Hill. On Lopez Island, a 50-year lease signed by the state Department of Natural Resources in 2009 now protects the Lopez Hill area from logging; a web of public trails winds past mossy conifers and madrona trees with peeling cinnamon-red bark. And some smaller parcels have the air of a secret about them, like the spectacular Watmough Bay Preserve on Lopez, with a trail that leads to a strip of beach on a wooded inlet, its moody water as magically lighted as a Bierstadt painting. -- SARA DICKERMAN
3. Koh Samui, Thailand A toned-down version of Phuket, heavy on wellness and food.
As Thailand's third-largest island, Koh Samui isn't exactly off the radar. But the 95-square-mile tropical gem in the southern Gulf of Thailand, whose white sand beaches, abundant coral reefs and seas of palm trees were once a backpackers' secret, has emerged as the stylish luxury alternative to crowded Phuket. Last month's much-anticipated opening of the W Retreat Koh Samui on a private beach along the island's northern shore was the chic hotel brand's premiere in Southeast Asia. July saw the arrival of the 78 pool-villas at the Banyan Tree Samui and its bay-facing spa, which includes the island's first hydrotherapy facility. It is burnishing Koh Samui's reputation as one of Thailand's top wellness destinations, along with the yoga and detox center at the Moroccan-inspired boutique resort Absolute Sanctuary, which turns three in April.
Local restaurants have kept pace, luring international chefs who are transforming Koh Samui into an eating destination as well. Newcomers include H-Bistro at the Hansar Samui resort, where the French-Mediterranean and Thai menu was conceived by a former private chef to the Jordanian royal family, and Orgasmic by Chef Wally, which serves innovative cocktails and dishes like cocoa butter Hokkaido scallops and freshly caught white snapper with pecan-celery mash. The local scene goes into full swing at the weekly Sunday Sessions under the soaring thatched roofs at loungey Beach Republic, whose brunch, seafood barbecue and sunset D.J.'s are quickly becoming famous. -- NAOMI LINDT
4. Iceland Where a country's hardships are a visitor's gain.
Iceland's economic crash has had an upside, at least for tourists. After the devaluation of the krona that followed the country's 2008 financial crisis, the breathtakingly beautiful island is a lot more affordable, meaning that a hotel room that was $200 before the crash might cost $130 now.
While traditionally a must-see for nature tourists -- who come for thermal springs, glaciers, volcanic landscapes and the Northern Lights -- Iceland is stepping up the cultural offerings with Reykjavik's new Harpa-Reykjavik Concert Hall and Conference Centre, a symphony and opera house whose stunning glass facade was designed in collaboration with the Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson. Opening ceremonies begin in May, with performances by the Iceland Symphony Orchestra, Icelandic Opera and local rock bands. Another draw is the third annual DesignMarch (in March), a festival that showcases Icelandic design, from clothing and textiles to furniture. And the Iceland Airwaves music festival, every October, is perennially cool. -- SALLY McGRANE
5. Milan A reborn cathedral joins fashion-forward galleries and hotels.
Compared with the Italian troika of tourism -- Florence, Venice and Rome -- Milan is often an afterthought. But with novel, eye-catching design emerging around the city, that should soon change.
For years, unsightly scaffolding obscured the Milan Cathedral; now that most of it has been dismantled, the newly scrubbed Gothic masterpiece, also known as the Duomo, is worth a fresh look. Across the piazza, the city's collection of 20th-century art is now showcased at the Museo del Novecento, which opened in December in the restored Palazzo dell'Arengario.
Outside the historic center, former factories have been transformed into design studios, old warehouses have been repurposed as unconventional art venues, and galleries are packed with avant-garde works. The eclectic Spazio Rossana Orlandi gallery displays the latest creations from emerging designers, while large-scale art installations from acclaimed international artists like Anselm Kiefer are exhibited at HangarBicocca, a cavernous art space that re-opened last year.
And though fashion followers still flock to the wish-filled windows of Miu Miu and Marni, fashion in Milan now extends beyond retail and runways. Arguably the most fashionable addition is the Hotel Milano Scala, which opened last year in a renovated 19th-century mansion singing the eco-chic promise of ''zero-emissions hospitality.'' In a country where green directives are not yet widespread, it proves that Milan is, once again, on the cutting edge. -- INGRID K. WILLIAMS
6. Republic of Georgia A rustic ski wonderland on the verge of discovery.
Ski buffs don't usually think of Soviet Georgia when planning their next backcountry outing. But some ambitious plans in the Caucasus are trying to change that fast. Tucked between the Black and Caspian seas and smattered with mountains, Georgia has the kind of terrain adventurous skiers yearn for: peaks reaching 16,000 feet, deep valleys and largely untouched slopes. Known best for spectacular off-piste and heli-skiing, Bakuriani and Gudauri -- each a short drive from Tbilisi -- saw 30,000 visitors in 2009 and are expanding fast.
And now, in efforts spearheaded by the Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili, the ski-resort bug is spreading even further. In Mestia, the first groomed slopes of a new resort opened in December. Also earmarked as a winter hot spot is Goderdzi pass, which can have snow coverage six months a year. -- KIMBERLY BRADLEY
7. London Anticipating the 2012 Olympics, a slew of new hotels and restaurants.
There is never a bad time to go to London. But this year may be better than most: the 2012 Summer Olympic Games has prompted the construction of 12,000 hotel rooms, and several hotels that have been around for a while are burnishing their appeal with notable new restaurants.
Many are opening well in advance of the games. The 192-room Four Seasons London at Park Lane reopens late this month after a two-year-plus gut renovation that added a penthouse spa overlooking Hyde Park and new restaurant seating in a private garden. The new W London Leicester Square arrives in February, conforming to British tastes with a trendy take on high tea. In April the Corinthia Hotel London reinvents a vintage 1855 hotel, and in May the St. Pancras Renaissance Hotel London makes its debut in a cathedral-like Victorian hotel with a restaurant by the Michelin-starred chef Marcus Wareing.
Other hotels are adding restaurants from renowned chefs. This spring, the May Fair Hotel will become home to the chef Silvena Rowe's Eastern Mediterranean restaurant, Quince.
Expect hotel and restaurant bookings to be tight on and around April 29, date of the royal wedding, for which London tourism officials expect a pre-Olympics wave of visitors. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
8. Loreto, Mexico A beach hideaway with sport fishing gets a luxury resort.
Long known for sport fishing, Loreto, on Baja California Sur's eastern coast, is poised to become one of Mexico's next luxury destinations.
On Wednesday, Villa Group Resorts, one of Mexico's largest privately owned hotel groups, will open a $60 million Villa del Palmar resort with three restaurants, a 20,000-square-foot turtle-shaped pool and 150 suites from $250 to $1,500 a night. The resort is the first phase of an 1,800-acre development, Danzante Ba. It will add seven resort hotels, restaurants and a Rees Jones golf course.
Loreto also has longstanding attractions to tout. It recently started a public relations campaign, with help from the Mexico Tourism Board, to highlight its colonial architecture, deserted beaches and marine life. Founded in 1697 by Jesuit missionaries, Loreto is home to the historic Mission of Our Lady Loreto, one of the first ''California'' missions. The baroque Mission of San Javier can be found nearby in the Sierra de la Giganta Mountains.
Visitors can take day trips to see prehistoric rock art in the Sierra de San Francisco region of Baja California between Loreto and Bahia de Los Angeles. Five islands that make up the Loreto Bay National Marine Park, which covers 797 square miles in the Sea of Cortez, offer extensive snorkeling, kayaking, hiking, whale-watching and scuba-diving opportunities. The area is home to more than 800 species of marine life, including six-foot-long Humboldt squid. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
9. Park City, Utah Beyond the film festival, a growing group of top-tier resorts.
Many film aficionados have been lured to Park City for the annual Sundance festival, missing the slopes entirely, which is a shame. This year, new hotels, expanded terrain and events at area ski resorts make on-mountain exploration imperative. Last month, at Deer Valley, Montage opened a 220-room Craftsman-style midmountain lodge ; it offers ski-in, ski-out access, gas fireplaces in every room, and a spa.
Other recent openings include the St. Regis Deer Crest, the Waldorf Astoria Park City and the Hyatt Escala Lodge.
Over at the Canyons Resort, 300 acres of new skiing and snowboarding terrain includes 10 new trails that range from intermediate to expert gladed tree runs. The resort is also introducing what's billed as the first heated chair lift in North America and opening an apres-ski ''beach,'' an outdoor gathering place with beach-style lounge chairs, food and cocktail stations and expansive views of the mountainside. -- BONNIE TSUI
10. Cali, Colombia Cafe culture is on the rise while salsa fuels the night life.
Cali has always felt like the grittier stepsister of Medellin, but tucked amid the colonial homes of the barrios of San Antonio or Granada are a number of new jewelry boutiques, low-key cafes and salsotecas teeming with crowds as sexy as any in South America.
Salsa remains Cali's lifeblood. If the dance floors of Tin Tin Deo or Zaperoco are too full, try La Fuente, a pint-size bar jammed with sweaty students who spill out onto the street most nights. Or, follow the sounds of Latin jazz to Guayusa, just next door. Those with serious salsa chops hitch a cab out of town to the suburb of Juanchito, whose dance floors do not fill up until after midnight (but go in a group, as this section gets dicey at those hours). Also be sure to check out a performance of Delirio, the monthly cabaret that is part Cirque du Soleil, part salsa clinic. -- LIONEL BEEHNER
11. The Danube From Budapest to the Black Sea, new cruises on a storied river.
For years, high-end river travel in Europe has focused on western European waterways like the Rhine and the Rhone. But recent developments have brought the high life to the principal river of central and eastern Europe: the Danube.
Last year, California's Viking River Cruises launched new cruises on the river, and in 2011, another tour company, Tauck, will introduce riverboat trips from swinging Budapest to the Black Sea. Meanwhile, the Kempinski Hotel River Park recently opened on the Danube's banks in the Slovakian capital of Bratislava. The blue Danube threads its way through four capitals (Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest and Belgrade) and touches 10 countries, passing by majestic scenery, outrageously great wine regions and castles, fortifications and ruins dating back centuries. What better way to see all these treasures than from the water? -- EVAN RAIL
12. Niseko, Japan An Aspen emerges in Asia, with luxury to spare.
It was the snow that first brought the Australian ski bums here, the great powder blown in by Siberian cold fronts. Then chefs and designers discovered that this sleepy town on Japan's northern Hokkaido island was actually a lovely spot in itself, with natural hot springs, family-owned inns and spectacular views of impossibly symmetrical Mount Yotei. Now with the development of stylish restaurants and a network of fashion-forward chalets (like the foodie must stop Kamimura and the 10 zenlike lofts at Suiboku), the well-heeled are arriving on direct flights from all over Asia to Sapporo's New Chitose Airport, creating the region's answer to Aspen and Courchevel.
Expect that to intensify when a high-speed train line, now planned to begin service in 2015, cuts the trip up from Tokyo to under four hours. This month the fully revamped 200-room Green Leaf Niseko Village, stylishly renovated by the New York-based Alexandra Champalimaud, is reopening its doors, while a Banyan Tree and Tadao Ando-designed Capella complex are in the pipeline. -- ONDINE COHANE
13. Oahu Hawaii's most developed island adds resorts and attractions.
The nature that abounds on Maui and rural Kauai often overshadows the attractions on Oahu, the most populous Hawaiian island. But this year Oahu offers travelers fresh incentive in the form of name-brand resorts and other tourist attractions.
Disney plans to open Aulani, a 359-room resort 17 miles west of the Honolulu airport, in August. The 21-acre compound, part of the manicured Koolina Resort & Marina, will emphasize Hawaiian culture over Disney animation by offering hula lessons, lei making and storytelling (Disney movies will be stocked in the kids club). In addition to standard pools and a lazy river, a conservation pool supports stingrays that kids can safely touch.
For grown-ups, in October the hotelier Ian Schrager unveiled the first in a boutique hotel chain that he is creating for Marriott: the 353-room Waikiki Edition. Though it's not on the beach -- it's a five-minute walk to the ocean -- the resort makes up for it with an outdoor movie theater, a restaurant by the Iron Chef Masaharu Morimoto, surf-and-bikini boot camp and yoga. It has four bars, including one hidden behind a revolving bookcase.
But there's more than sunsets and mai tais to Oahu. A $56 million visitors' center and museum at Pearl Harbor opened Dec. 7 featuring interactive exhibits about the World War II attack that trace the path to war from both American and Japanese perspectives. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
14. Antwerp, Belgium A new breed of boutiques have made it a fashionista's paradise.
There hasn't been so much fashion buzz in Antwerp since the dawn of the Antwerp Six, a group of designers including Dries Van Noten and Ann Demeulemeester who rose to prominence in the mid 1980s. And while the city's Royal Academy of Fine Arts is still churning out avant-garde talents, it's Antwerp's latest crop of shops that is causing the current buzz.
''The fashionistas I know have suddenly fallen in love with Antwerp,'' said Lulu Townsend, the managing director of the London travel company Chic Retreats. ''It's a shopper's paradise.''
In the last year alone four destination-worthy concept stores have opened, among them the fashion shop-cum-gallery Ra, which sells local and international labels and also hosts art and fashion events. Next door is Your, which offers everything from ''a 2-euro pack of bubble gum to 14 brands of jeans and a 350,000-euro Alfa Romeo 8C,'' said Jorrit Baars, who conceived the space.
Then there are the posh new boutiques Graanmarkt 13 and Renaissance, which features designers like Alexander Wang along with a chic Italian restaurant simply called Ristaurante. While you are in the building, check out the latest exhibition at Antwerp's fashion museum, MoMu. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
15. Melbourne, Australia New hotels plus big-name chefs put Sydney on notice.
With a bunch of new hotels and restaurants led by notable chefs cropping up, Melbourne has been stealing the spotlight from its sister city, Sydney.
The most notable addition comes from the luxury brand Crown, which is investing 1 billion Australian dollars (about the same in U.S. dollars) to expand its sprawling Crown Entertainment Complex on the southern bank of the Yarra River. In April it opened Australia's largest hotel, the 300-million-dollar 658-room Crown Metropol, which has an infinity pool on the 27th floor with 180-degree views of the city, and is home to the Maze and Maze Grill, the celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay's first endeavors Down Under. The complex also includes the Crown Towers hotel, which has four private penthouse gaming salons with 360-degree views of Melbourne's skyline.
The city's thriving arts scene now has stylish boutique hotels to match, too. Three Art Series Hotels, inspired by (and featuring the works of) famous artists, opened in the last year. The Olsen, named for the landscape painter John Olsen, is the flagship of the group, with 229 rooms (from 215 dollars a night) and a heated, glass-bottomed swimming pool.
Visiting foodies will be able to choose from a number of new restaurants. In October, the Australian chef Neil Perry, of Rockpool in Sydney, opened Spice Temple, a 200-seat contemporary Szechuan restaurant next door to his Rockpool Bar & Grill in the Crown complex, as well as a new bar, the Waiting Room, in the lobby of the Crown Towers hotel. Also within the Crown complex, a new seafood restaurant, the Atlantic, will debut in February with Donovan Cooke as executive chef. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
16. Tlemcen, Algeria An ancient Islamic city dresses up for a gala year.
There's a buzz of anticipation -- and power tools -- in the streets, squares and souks of this ancient Algerian city. Named a Capital of Islamic Culture for 2011 by Isesco (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), Algeria's spiritual heart is preparing for a yearlong gala that will include some 300 exhibitions, concerts, screenings, theater performances, lectures and readings. The ruins of medieval ramparts and towers are being refurbished. Time-worn mosques and hammams are being dusted off. Cultural centers and museums are being started. And a first generation of five-star hotels -- notably a Renaissance by Marriott-- is rising from the ground.
Why Tlemcen? As the seat of a medieval dynasty that controlled much of North Africa, Tlemcen has long been a center of Islamic learning, culture and art. Skilled craftsmen ply their wares around the Kissaria market, traditional orchestras show off their chops every summer at the city's festival of Arabo-Andalusian music, and the Muslim faithful pour into magnificent religious edifices like the Great Mosque and the tomb of Sidi Boumediene -- a revered 12th-century Islamic scholar. With the approaching festival, the city should at last recapture some of its past glory. -- SETH SHERWOOD
17. Sopot and Gdansk, Poland Poland's Baltic coast welcomes party hoppers and soccer fans.
Every country with a coastline has its version of the Hamptons. In Poland, it's Sopot. In the summer, the small city -- with its white beach, fin-de-siecle villas and lively cafe- and club-lined boulevard -- is packed with young party hoppers from all over Poland and Scandinavia, dancing at flashy venues like the new Dream Club. Vladimir Putin has been known to stay at the palatial Sofitel Grand, which looks over the sea and nearby pier, the longest on the Baltic.
Sopot and the neighboring city of Gdansk (formerly known as Danzig) are gearing up for the 2012 European soccer championships, which will take place throughout Poland and Ukraine. Already there has been a flurry of openings, including a new boutique-style Hilton in Gdansk's historic center, the Ergo Arena between Sopot and Gdansk (Lady Gaga was one of the first to perform), and a symphony hall with a stylish restaurant in Gdansk that was formerly a power plant. But the biggest debut is further off: the reopening of the beloved Forest Opera, an amphitheater in Sopot, which by 2012 should have 1,000 additional seats and a new roof. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
18. Erzurum, Turkey Skiing in Turkey? A winter sports capital emerges in Anatolia.
Turkey may not be the first place people think of for skiing, but it's got mountains -- big, snowy ones. Now the government is making a push to turn Erzurum, a city of 785,000 in eastern Anatolia, into a winter sports capital in time for this month's 2011 Winter Universiade (sort of an Olympics for university students). Two and a half miles from town lies the ski resort of Palandoken, which the Iranian skiers who come here know has the most challenging skiing in Turkey. Three lifts have been added to the bald mountain that rises nearly 3,000 feet from its base to its summit at 10,498. The number of runs is a modest 18 -- but the fun skiing is off-piste, between the runs, on Palandoken's 2,200 acres.
About 11 miles from Erzurum sits the new Konakli Ski Resort, which opened this winter with six chairlifts and 3,000 acres of skiing. A new five-star hotel is scheduled to open next season; until it does, rent a car for day trips and stay at Palandoken's Renaissance Polat Erzurum Hotel. -- CHRISTOPHER SOLOMON
19. Hyderabad, India Dynastic grandeur in the heart of modern India.
Even in the 16th century, Hyderabad, in southern India, famous for its diamond trade and sultans' palaces, was a city with serious bling. In the last decade, a new sort of wealth has arrived -- the outsourcing of international companies, which has inspired a boom of sleek cafes and restaurants such as Fusion 9.
The latest buzz is the debut of two five-star hotels, both connected to the Nizam family, rulers of Hyderabad for the two centuries before India's independence. The first, Park Hyderabad, is a futuristic structure designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with an aluminum and glass facade inspired by the settings and metalwork found in the Nizams' jewelry collection. The new Taj Falaknuma Palace, on the other hand, is a window into the past. It's a wedding cake of a building that still belongs to the Nizam family, and it took the Taj Hotels group 10 years to renovate the European-style castle. ''The Falaknuma Palace will complete the Indian palace tour for the south,'' said Shanti Kohli, of New Delhi-based Amber Tours. ''It makes a trip to Hyderabad worthwhile just on its own.'' -- GISELA WILLIAMS
20. Manchester, England An industrial city reinvents its famed musical past.
The cold and gritty factory city that famously inspired the post-industrial anguish of bands like Joy Division and the Smiths has transformed into a thriving cultural hub. Several new music venues are cashing in on ''Madchester'' nostalgia, including FAC251, an indie-music club that opened in February in the old Factory Records building. The owners of the popular Trof cafe, which bills itself as a ''dandyish den of opulence,'' recently opened a new multiplatform cultural venue called the Deaf Institute. For those who want a taste of the city's favorite depressive sons. -- CHARLY WILDER
21. Tallinn, Estonia The beautiful capital city aims to shed its stag-party past.
Soon after EasyJet began flights from London and Berlin to the Estonian capital in 2004, Tallinn became known as the Las Vegas of the Baltics, luring hordes of party tourists with its cheap liquor and wild seaside night life. But now, with the city's selection as a 2011 European Capital of Culture, cash is flowing in and pulling Tallinn out of its stag party adolescence.
Some seven years after Estonia joined the European Union, large-scale infrastructural and restorative work, including several rebuilt museums, a waterfront promenade and a large arts venue, KultuuriKatel (Culture Cauldron), are reshaping Tallinn's cultural identity. Much of Northern Europe's arts community will converge on the city this year, as it debuts a yearlong schedule of European Union-sponsored events, including the student-focused contemporary art triennial Exsperimenta! and ''Stories of the Seashore,'' a project that enlists writers, actors, artists and musicians to reflect on the sea that has been so central to Estonia's development. -- CHARLY WILDER
22. Fogo Island, Newfoundland An art colony blooms on remote and rugged shores.
A remote island off the coast of Newfoundland with a dwindling population of 3,000 residents might not strike you as an important cultural enclave. But it soon could be, thanks to a local resident, Zita Cobb and a Norwegian architect, Todd Saunders. They teamed up to create a series of innovative artists' studios in former saltbox houses and deconsecrated churches that perch over the North Atlantic and rugged pristine landscapes. Two are complete, and four more will be unveiled in June as part of the Fogo Island Arts Corporation. The effort, with the help of government financing, puts more than $15 million into showcasing the island as an arts and eco destination.
Besides the cutting-edge studios, which will host artists and writers as part of an international residency program, the foundation will also open a 29-room hotel next year. For the moment visitors can stay at country spots like Foley's Bed and Breakfast and Peg's B&B and rent a car to tour the architectural showcases. Talk about island innovation. -- ONDINE COHANE
23. Singapore With new resorts and casinos, the city lets its hair down.
For years, this island country was considered oppressive and humorless. But recently Singapore has started to have some fun with new supersized resorts, design hotels and restaurants.
''There has been a big change in the Singapore scene in the last two or three years,'' said the hotelier Lik Peng Loh, who recently opened Wanderlust, which he calls an ''adult playground.''
Singapore's decision six years ago to allow gambling led to the recent opening of two complexes: the Resorts World Sentosa, with a casino, Universal Studios theme park and four hotels, including a Hard Rock; and the Marina Bay Sands. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
24. Port Ghalib, Egypt A low-key beach escape with clear water and sea creatures.
The once unspoiled beauty and calm of Sharm el-Sheikh, on the Red Sea in Egypt, has suffered from an influx of tourists (not to mention a recent series of shark attacks). Those looking to skip the crowds should turn to Port Ghalib, across the Red Sea from Sharm, on the eastern Egyptian coast. Ghalib's beaches offer soft, snow-hued sand and translucent water that divers love.
Since the area's rich marine life hasn't yet been sullied by packs of visitors, the coral reefs are undamaged and ripe for exploring. Admiral Travel, a Florida-based travel consultancy that specializes in trips to Egypt, arranges customized diving expeditions to Elphinstone Reef (a few miles from Ghalib) that allow clients to swim with hammerhead and gray reef sharks. Port Ghalib also offers affordable lodging options, with several attractive hotels. Four resorts operated by the InterContinental Hotel Group include the upscale beachfront Palace Port Ghalib Resort, which features a Six Senses spa. -- SHIVANI VORA
25. Whistler, British Columbia The Olympians are gone. Now it's your turn.
You don't need a lifetime of training or a Spandex unitard to retrace the strides of the best Nordic skiers in the world. The 2010 Winter Games left behind a tremendous structural legacy: Whistler Olympic Park, which is now open to the public. The park, and its partner facility, the Callaghan Country Lodge, offer some 55 miles of trails that range from easy to Olympian.
Skiers not yet ready to power up the devastating hills that were part of last year's Nordic sprint events can look to the park's ski school, which offers lessons in most of the Nordic skiing disciplines -- classic cross-country, skate skiing, even biathlon.
Whistler Village, with its extensive lodges, condos and restaurants, is near the park's day lodge, but cross-country skiers seeking a truly remote experience may choose to stay at Callaghan Lodge, a cheery chalet encircled by glacier-swaddled mountains. One five-kilometer cross-country loop from the lodge passes right below the toe of the massive Solitude glacier. In the winter, the lodge is accessible only by trail, which takes about three hours for the average skier to reach from the park's central day lodge. Less ambitious souls can still enjoy the lodge as snowmobile transport is available for an additional fee. -- SARA DICKERMAN
26. Guimaraes, Portugal A city of youth is fired up by its art scene.
Considered the birthplace of Portugal, this picturesque northern city has long been of great historical importance to the country. Now, with half its inhabitants under 30, it is also one of the youngest cities in Europe. A string of recent developments, like its selection as a 2012 European Capital of Culture and the rehabilitation of the Unesco-designated historic center, have helped turned the youthful ''cradle city'' into one of the Iberian peninsula's emerging cultural hot spots.
Much of the city's burgeoning music and arts scene is nourished by the Centro Cultural Vila Flor, a contemporary-minded cultural center that opened in 2005 in a converted 18th-century palace. It includes amphitheaters, an exhibition villa, artists' studios and a modern Portuguese restaurant. This March, the center will host the first International Festival of Contemporary Dance, bringing in an impressive selection of dance companies from throughout the world. -- CHARLY WILDER
27. Olympic Park, Wash. Bad weather is good for skiers and storm-watchers.
It's a La Nina year, which means that storms are hitting the Pacific Northwest in a big way. And Olympic National Park offers two ways to take advantage of the wild weather. Skiers can tackle Hurricane Ridge, the mile-high ski and snowboard area, which has massive bowls and glades with 400-plus inches of snow each year. Lifts operate only on weekends, but Hurricane Ridge Road and its visitor center will be open seven days a week for the first time during the 2011 season, so cross-country skiers and snowshoers have all-day, everyday access to the unmarked and ungroomed trails in the forests and meadows around the ridge.
Nonskiers can head to the park's historic lodges, Lake Quinault and Kalaloch, for rooms with fireplaces and epic views. This year, the two lodges are offering ''storm-watching'' specials through the winter and early spring that include lodging as well as breakfast, rain ponchos, souvenir blankets and rain-forest tour options. -- BONNIE TSUI
28. Dresden, Germany A new museum leads the way to a historic city's future.
This city, devastated by bombing during World War II, has meticulously refashioned itself into a prewar picture postcard. Now, with most of the costly historic renovations finished there is finally time for a little reflection. In fall 2011 the city will open a comprehensive new Military History Museum, with a striking glass and steel extension by the architect Daniel Libeskind added to the existing 19th-century building.
The exhibition space, which covers almost 200,000 square feet, offers two experiences. The original space will feature a chronological history of German war, with an emphasis on the last century. The other, spread over multiple floors in the trapezoidal addition, will feature displays related to sociological and anthropological topics, like the effect of war on the individual. The floor will be paved with stones recovered from foreign cities that Germany bombed during World War II, as well as from Dresden itself.
At the summit of Mr. Libeskind's wedge, which bisects the building (representing the fissures of German history), there will be a 100-foot-high viewing platform, giving visitors a new, more informed vantage point over Dresden's reconstructed old town. -- RACHEL B. DOYLE
29. Oualidia, Morocco On a Moroccan lagoon, oysters, flamingoes and no crowds.
The seaside Moroccan village of Oualidia is almost exclusively for the birds -- and that's exactly what's special about it.
''It's just about communing with nature: fishing, surfing, kayaking or birdwatching,'' said James von Leyden, a British expatriate who built a house overlooking Oualidia's lagoon, which is filled with pink flamingoes, migrating herons and the occasional surfer.
Mr. Von Leyden and his family spend about four months a year at Villa La Diouana, their charming riad on the sea; the rest of the year it is rented by savvy Morocco insiders, like the French handbag designer Laetitia Trouillet.
The British writer Danny Moynihan and his wife, Katrina Boorman, an actress, fell so in love with the area that they bought property in 2004. This year they are completing an eight bedroom eco-property. (It will also be available to rent.)
For those who prefer hotels, the luxurious new 11-room La Sultana is the place to stay. Those on a budget can check into the charming but rustic L'Hippocampe, whose bar is a cozy meeting point. As is the seaside fish restaurant L'Ostrea, which serves Oualidia's famous oysters. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
30. Zanzibar On an African isle, luxury lures the apres safari set.
Zanzibar. The name alone evokes images of spice markets and swaying palms. Newly renovated palace hotels in Stone Town and exotic villa hotels by the sea are adding to the allure of this Tanzanian island.
Tarquin Barnsby, founder of the travel company Pure Zanzibar, notes that Zanzibar, with its white beaches and relatively modern infrastructure, is a popular beach stop for travelers after a safari in East Africa. He added that the island's trade winds are attracting kite surfers and that a cleaned-up Stone Town, the island's main center, is now worth a visit.
New hotel options include the Mashariki Palace, which just opened with 18 spacious rooms. Small hybrids of villas and hotels include the Baraza, which resembles a sultan's palace, and Kilindi, a property on the north coast, with 15 whitewashed pavilions, private plunge pools and ocean views. Cheaper options include the new Dongwe Ocean View. And burned-out travelers with deep pockets should check into the just renovated, soon to reopen Zamani Retreat Kempinski, the chain's first holistic wellness resort. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
31. Colonia del Sacramento, Uruguay The ranches beyond a historic village offer a dose of rural chic.
Colonia del Sacramento, on the southwestern shores of Uruguay, has long been a popular detour from Buenos Aires. Reachable by ferry across the Rio de la Plata, this UnescoWorld Heritage site offers centuries-old stone houses, casual restaurants with riverside patios and boutiques selling crafts. In the last few years, its appeal has spilled into the surrounding countryside, where tastefully decorated ranches and locavore offerings are attracting travelers in search of rural chic.
At the recently opened La Vigna, 37 miles south of the historic quarter, guests can learn about organic farming, sheep shearing and other activities worthy of a gaucho. Or they can just relax at the main house, a restored Renaissance Revival estate built in 1880 by Italian winemakers. It has five rooms furnished with rustic antiques and ceramics made on site.
Deeper inland, Estancia Tierra Santa (open March to June and September to December) has three suites inside a renovated colonial manor -- all with wood-burning fireplaces and outdoor terraces. More than 50 bird species have been spotted during expeditions at this ranch, which also offers fishing, hunting and riding on criollo horses.
The promenade at the nearby Puerto Camacho marina includes a stone-walled chapel, a food shop that stocks artisanal preserves and a restaurant, Basta Pedro. The marina, part of a larger development, will include a racetrack with lessons taught by expert riders. You'll be galloping through the grasslands in no time. -- PAOLA SINGER
32. Tozeur, Tunisia Camel racing, souks and eco-lodging in a Saharan oasis.
With its luxury hotels and glittery events -- film festival, art fair, Formula One race -- many feel that Marrakesh, Morocco's ''jewel of the south,'' has lost its authentic North African luster. Fortunately, there is an alternative: Tozeur, Tunisia's desert gem. Compared with its Moroccan cousin, Tozeur is smaller, quieter, more remote and (for now) less touristed -- though a few luxury hotels have begun to sprout there. Set in an oasis of date palms, this former Roman outpost and caravan hub is awash in Saharan culture, from traditional souks to a zoo of desert animals. No glammed-out red-carpet events animate the streets, only the annual Oasis festival of traditional dance and music. The closest that the region has come to a star turn were cameos in ''Star Wars'' movies, thanks to its otherworldly dunes and dried-up salt lake.
Visitors can have a futuristic desert experience of their own, courtesy of the new Dar Hi hotel in Nefta. Designed by Matali Crasset -- a protege of Philippe Starck -- the small eco-hotel has rooms that suggest sci-fi stone turrets and caves, and a hammam fed by underground springs. -- SETH SHERWOOD
33. Hangzhou, China An hour from Shanghai, a historic jewel goes five-star.
Although Hangzhou is only now coming into the global spotlight, its gorgeous pagodas, historic temples and lush gardens have been inspiring Chinese poets and painters for centuries. Recently, the feverish growth of Shanghai has sparked the rediscovery of Hangzhou as a peaceful retreat and a cultural masterpiece. And with it, a new generation of luxury hotels has arrived: Shangri-la overlooking West Lake; the Banyan Tree set within China's first wetland reserve; the Aman, close to some of the area's most spectacular ancient Buddhist temples up in the hills; and most recently, the Four Seasons with a destination spa and two swimming pools set up along the lagoons. Next up is an Angsana, the Banyan Tree's design-chic sister hotel. And with the debut of a high-speed train from Shanghai, it's now -- unbelievably -- less than a one-hour journey from central Shanghai. Once there, rent a bike and step into sights like Lingyin Temple, one of the world's most important Buddhist temples. -- ONDINE COHANE
34. Iraqi Kurdistan Safety, history and a warm welcome in a stable corner of Iraq.
As United States forces withdraw from Iraq, a handful of intrepid travel companies are offering trips to the semiautonomous Kurdish region in the north, which has enjoyed relative safety and stability in recent years.
Geographic Expeditions is conducting a 21-day tour to Kurdistan and Eastern Turkey, about half of it spent exploring Kurdistan along the Hamilton Road, which connects strategic gorges, and the other half devoted to the Anatolia region of Turkey. Distant Horizons has been taking small groups of Americans to Kurdistan twice a year since 2008, has a trip this spring, The Changing Face of Iraqi Kurdistan, which will explore Erbil, Dohuk and Sulaimaniyah. And last April, after a 20-year break, Lufthansa resumed service from Frankfurt to Erbil, the Kurdish capital and fourth-largest city in Iraq.
While the State Department continues to warn American tourists to avoid Iraq entirely, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office says the Kurdistan region is an exception. ''The risk of terrorism in the Kurdistan Regional Government-controlled provinces of Dohuk, Erbil and Sulaimaniyah is markedly and statistically lower than in other parts of Iraq,'' states its Web site.
Visitors can tour significant cultural landmarks like Erbil's citadel, which dates to the Assyrian empire, and the site of the Battle of Gaugamela, which ended in the defeat of the Persian king Darius III by Alexander the Great and led to the fall of the Achaemenid Empire. The biggest lure is the opportunity for authentic cultural encounters. ''Authenticity is something that can be lost so quickly as development occurs,'' said Janet Moore, of Distant Horizons. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
35. Durham, N.C. A downtown turnaround means food worth a trip.
A decade ago, downtown Durham was a place best avoided after sundown. But as revitalization has transformed abandoned tobacco factories and former textile mills into bustling mixed-use properties, the city has been injected with much-needed life. In the heart of downtown, a crop of standout restaurants and cafes has recently sprouted around West Main Street, where low rents have allowed chefs and other entrepreneurs to pursue an ethos that skews local, seasonal and delicious.
The farmers' market favorite Scratch Bakery has a brand-new storefront for its seasonal homemade pies that include chestnut cream pie and buttermilk sweet potato pie. At the cafe-cum-grocery Parker and Otis, the menu features sandwiches made with freshly baked bread from nearby Rue Cler and locally roasted java from Durham's Counter Culture Coffee. And at the sophisticated Revolution, squash tamales, mascarpone gnocchi, and tuna with wasabi caviar rotate through the seasonal menu. -- INGRID K. WILLIAMS
36. Kosovo Mountains, medieval architecture and unexpected night life.
Just over a decade ago, this Albanian enclave was a troubled province of Serbia; Slobodan Milosevic's Serbian forces destroyed myriad towns and cities and killed thousands in their pursuit of independence fighters. NATO ended the fighting, but flare-ups continued.
The last few years have seen Kosovo -- which declared independence in 2008 -- attempt to rise from the ashes. Despite problems and controversies, there is progress on the travel front: a $1 billion highway project is under way, government-owned hotels have been privatized and refurbished, various historic sites have won Unesco World Heritage status, and the airport now welcomes the European budget carrier EasyJet.
Travelers will be greeted by rugged mountains and pine forests. They'll also find that Europe's youngest nation boasts the Continent's youngest population, with about half of the people under 25. That statistic comes to life in Pristina, the capital. Thanks in part to the return of enterprising young Kosovars living abroad, the city is filling with cafes, nightclubs and restaurants.
But remnants of Kosovo's Slavic and Ottoman past are the marquee attractions. Once the seat of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the city of Peja contains the Patriarchate of Pec, a complex of medieval churches overlooking a jagged gorge, with interiors that glow with frescoes, and the Decani Monastery, filled with vivid biblical scenes. -- SETH SHERWOOD
37. Pingyao, China Ming architecture is intact as contemporary culture takes root.
While other towns in China have modernized, Pingyao, in China's coal-rich Shanxi Province, has clung to its old ways, barring cars within its 33-foot-tall Ming dynasty walls and preserving the traditional architecture of incense shops, courtyard houses and 19th-century bank buildings. Named a Unesco World Heritage site in 1997, Pingyao has become a major destination for Chinese and foreigners alike.
But the city is becoming known for more than its history. Its yearly photography festival, which takes place in late summer, has attracted enthusiasts and professionals from across the globe for a decade. Another sign that Pingyao is being embraced by the fashionable set: in 2009, the city's first boutique hotel, the 19-room Jing's Residence, a Relais & Chateaux member, opened in a restored courtyard house built more 200 years ago by a Qing dynasty silk merchant. -- DAN LEVIN
38. Salonika, Greece Out of the country's economic woes, a new wave of artists.
It may come as cold comfort to the Greeks, but the country's financial woes have made it prime territory for bargain-hunting tourists. The coastal city of Salonika, often overlooked by tourists in favor of Athens, has been gaining momentum for the last several years with its prolific cultural scene. Now, with British Airways adding a direct route from London and a new mayor pushing forward a spate of major cultural and tourism initiatives, Salonika is hotter than ever.
The newest wave of culture makers in the laid-back city include the nonprofit Dynamo Project Space, which gives a platform to up-and-coming local artists, architects and designers, and Sfina, a self-appointed ''urban prankster network'' that instigates flash mob-style events in public spaces. Since it opened last summer, the eco-conscious design firm 157173 has garnered attention for its offbeat minimalist lamps, mobiles and other design objects that are equal parts Bauhaus and Joan Miro. -- CHARLY WILDER
39. Okinawa, Japan A 'Japanese Amazon' with some luxury thrown in.
The latest news about Okinawa might focus on the future of the American military base there, but the cluster of coral-lined islands has long been a uniquely lovely place to experience wild Japan. Few foreigners make it here, though Okinawa is a popular vacation spot for Japanese mainlanders as it's just a few hours from Tokyo by plane and has excellent diving, hiking and palm-fringed white-sand beaches.
Playing off an increased awareness of the islands as a destination for non-Japanese tourists, new hotels are popping up all over the prefecture: InterContinental opened the first two luxury resorts last year, and in March, the Tera Resort Hotel is scheduled to open near the Shuri Castle ruins, which are part of a Unesco World Heritage Site. On Okinawa Island visitors should head to the northern coast for a decidedly unspoiled, natural experience replete with sugarcane fields, hibiscus-lined beaches, and traditional ceramics studios that use old-fashioned Okinawan firing techniques and dragon-shaped kilns. Farther southwest, the island of Iriomote is the wildest of them all, with dense coastal jungle, mangroves, rich indigenous wildlife, and tiny villages accessible only by boat. They don't call it the Japanese Amazon for nothing. -- BONNIE TSUI
40. Budapest A scene pops up in abandoned buildings, and glamour rises.
From Castle Hill to Heroes' Square, Budapest is renowned for its grandeur. But in areas blighted by poverty and neglect, a surging bohemian culture revels in the wreckage at ''ruin pubs.'' Originating in the scruffy old Jewish quarter downtown, these bars occupy abandoned buildings and their courtyards, hosting hipsters quaffing German and Czech beers while reclining on cast-off furniture amid haphazard flea market finds. Szimpla Kert epitomizes the ''romkocsma'' (''ruin pub'') movement, which has exploded beyond the district to encompass not just vacant lots, but rooftop bars such as Corvintet, which bills itself as an underground club in the open air.
Not all of Budapest's historic buildings are celebrated for their distress, of course. The Buddha-Bar Hotel Budapest Klotild Palace, opening in summer 2011, will occupy a vintage 1900 former palace, with 102 rooms and a branch of the Paris-famed Buddha-Bar glassed in on the roof.
Budapest will also be easier reach once American Airlines begins daily nonstops from Kennedy International Airport on April 5. Those flights will land at the new international terminal at Budapest Ferihegy International Airport, which opens March 27 with a 60-foot-high glass atrium filled with new restaurants, shops and bars. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
41. Miami Big-time music arrives in a town known for beaches and art.
Between the white-hot Art Basel festival and the growing Design District, south Florida's city on the sea is slowly earning must-stop status on the global arts circuit.
This month, the quest to amass cultural assets to match its beachside charms continues with the opening of a huge performing arts center, the New World Center, designed by Frank Gehry, in the heart of Miami Beach. The 100,000-square-foot space will be home to the New World Symphony and its conductor, Michael Tilson Thomas, and will have a 2.5-acre park for outdoor performances, a 7,000-square-foot outdoor projection wall for videos and installations, and a music academy for young artists. And after only the briefest of pauses in honor of the global economic meltdown, the stampede of hot hotel openings returns, led by Soho Beach House with 49 rooms, a private screening room, and Cecconi's, the city's hot restaurant of the moment. Others include the Dream South Beach, planned to open in the next couple of months, and a new top-end JW Marriott. -- ONDINE COHANE
Online Correction: January 8, 2011, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the last name of a Norwegian architect. His name is Todd Saunders, not Sanders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SANTIAGO, CHILE: The Centro Gabriela Mistral, a 200,000-square-foot performance and exhibition space of glass and steel, is an example of the government's investment in the arts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
KOH SAMUI, THAILAND: View from the lobby of the trendy W Retreat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR3)
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA: Georgia has the kind of terrain adventurous skiers yearn for. Mestia's first groomed slopes opened last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID TURNLEY/CORBIS) (TR5)
NISEKO, JAPAN: Tatami room in a loft at the Suiboku on the island of Hokkaido. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CALI, COLOMBIA: The scene at one of the city's many salsotecas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIS ROBAYO/AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (TR8)
PORT GHALIB, EGYPT: Across the Red Sea from much-touristed Sharm el-Sheikh, Port Ghalib's beaches offer soft, snow-hued sand and translucent water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
OLYMPIC NATIONAL PARK, WASH.: Lodges cater to storm-watchers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TALLINN, ESTONIA: As a 2011 European Capital of Culture, the city is losing its party reputation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN TROWER/JAI/CORBIS) (TR9)
MIAMI: The resumed stampede of hot hotel openings was led by Soho Beach House with 49 rooms, a private screening room and Cecconi's restaurant.
 PINGYAO, CHINA: Jing's Residence is a boutique hotel in a restored house built more 200 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN BRADSHAW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (TR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BEACHES (78%); FEBRUARY 2010 CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); DANCE (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); HAUTE COUTURE (67%)

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (98%) RED SEA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (74%) CHILE (98%); ESTONIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); GEORGIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



222 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED P.R.; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: A Career Detour

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

 BODY:
WHEN Mary Ellin Arch was called to the human resources department of The Richmond Times-Dispatch in August 2007, she thought she would be discussing a possible hire for the paper's Web site, where she was a news editor and managed a staff of 10.
Instead, she was fired.
''It wasn't one of these escort-you-out-of-the-newsroom things,'' she says. ''They did let me go back to my desk.'' She was 51, and had worked in newspapers 29 years.
A casualty of a profession in retreat, Ms. Arch did what many unemployed journalists do: look for work in public relations. For four months, her resume drew ''no bites, no interviews, no calls, no interest whatsoever,'' she says. The problem, she believes, was competition from candidates with P.R. degrees or experience. She was sure that success in her new career would ride on those factors as well. 
When she did find work -- as spokeswoman for the Pocahontas 895, a toll road in Richmond, Va. (yes, toll roads have their own publicists) -- Ms. Arch simultaneously enrolled in a master's program in strategic public relations at Virginia Commonwealth University.
''I'm a real big fan of telling reporters it's not as easy as you think,'' Ms. Arch says. ''Working in the newsroom does not prepare you for a job in public relations.''
Even 10 years ago, that wasn't the case. But times have changed, says John Doorley, former head of corporate communications for the pharmaceutical company Merck and now director of the master's in public relations program at New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies. ''I left Merck in 2000,'' he says. ''If someone had asked me then whether they needed a degree in public relations, I would have said, 'What the heck for?' '' Today, says Mr. Doorley and others, public relations has outgrown its second-tier status in the advertising and journalism curriculums where it has often been buried, and emerged as a social science and business discipline of its own.
To avoid being limited to pitching stories about clients or writing the company newsletter, a public relations employee needs to understand business, finance, marketing, strategic planning and research -- the language of corporate America and the company boardroom, where the P.R. head is now likely to report to the chief executive. That understanding doesn't have to come from formal education, but it is the stuff of most P.R. master's curriculums. So is training in multimedia platforms, especially creating online content and using social media for promotion and advocacy, which is becoming a given in entry-level jobs.
Some journalists bring to the table specialized knowledge gained from covering a beat, but with colleges and universities graduating record numbers of students with public relations degrees (more than 20,000 are in the pipeline), those without one may be at a disadvantage.
The ''key to the public relations kingdom,'' says Gary D. McCormick, chairman and chief executive officer of the Public Relations Society of America, is the ability to ''think holistically.''
Denise Keyes, associate dean of public relations at Georgetown's School of Continuing Studies, calls it ''embracing the blur,'' the title of a Georgetown course examining how the lines between disciplines are disappearing. This includes the fading lines between advertising and public relations, and between public relations and journalism. Consider: the Internet enables publicists to report their own news, while promotion is no stranger to journalism.
To Brenda J. Wrigley, chairwoman of the P.R. department at Syracuse University and a former journalist, the real question is whether a journalist making the leap to P.R. can be comfortable with the ''mantle'' of paid advocate or, as many put it, a place on ''the dark side.'' Distrust between the professions still runs deep, especially from journalists. Ms. Wrigley researched the issue, finding that journalists and P.R. practitioners made ethical decisions in the same way. But in rating each other's ethics, P.R. people gave journalists high marks, while journalists gave those in P.R. poor scores.
This question did not concern Ms. Arch, who says she was ''predisposed'' to a job in public relations. ''I was unusual as a journalist in that I never hated P.R. people,'' she says.
She had thought of switching many times in a career that spanned newspaper's heyday and decline, including stints reporting and editing for The Roanoke Times & World-News, Gannett's p.m. and a.m. papers in Rochester, N.Y., The Associated Press and United Press International in Virginia and, finally, The Times-Dispatch, where she rebranded the Web site and managed its news content. The long hours and deadlines took their toll, especially while raising two children. She longed for a more normal schedule.
When she lost her $77,000-a-year job, she viewed it as an opportunity. As the higher earner in her marriage, and with a son starting college, anxiety was high. Her husband, a former photojournalist, had recently started a job with the Virginia Department of Transportation overseeing its Web site after reinventing himself with a master's in online journalism from American University in Washington, D.C. The two had met on the school paper at West Virginia University, where they majored in journalism.
Ms. Arch scoured online job sites and followed up myriad leads. She surmised from feedback that she was under-qualified compared to others with public relations experience but was also being ''weeded out'' of lower-level jobs because of her management experience and salary. She also suspected that her age was working against her.
''I have no evidence,'' Ms. Arch says, ''but it certainly did cross my mind. My resume did not include the date I graduated from college. But on the applications, it asks for college graduation and the further you get into your work history, it becomes obvious.''
When her husband sent her a job posting for a community relations specialist who could speak for the Pocahontas 895, she jumped on it, contacting the hiring manager directly. In the interview, she emphasized her familiarity with the community after covering it as a reporter, her online editing and management experience, and her efforts to rebrand and market the Times-Dispatch Web site.
She got the job, but took a 22 percent pay cut.
It may not sound like every editor's dream job. But the Pocahontas 895 is a busy nine-mile toll road that affects commuters' pocketbooks, the local economy, the public infrastructure and transportation policy. It is managed by Transurban, whose other projects include constructing high occupancy toll lanes along the Capital Beltway.
With a 99-year management lease from the state, Transurban needs to be a good citizen. Ms. Arch has become its public face in Virginia, serving on chambers of commerce and attending community meetings to explain highway news, such as toll increases or milestones in the construction of an airport connector road. She coordinates public events, appears on television, writes media releases and maintains a Web site.
Someone else may have been content to leave it at that. But Ms. Arch knew she lacked grounding and experience, and, at 51, she was not willing to wait for it to come on the job.
She enrolled in Virginia Commonwealth full time and finished in a year, attending classes two evenings a week and all day Saturday. Her courses included P.R. research, leadership and law, marketing, strategic media relations, crisis communications and reputation management. A two-week study abroad program in China focused on global public relations. Her employer gave her time off and reimbursed half the $28,000 tuition.
Does she miss her old life? In a way, Ms. Arch has embraced the blur. She misses newspapers' ''good old days,'' she says: rushing to a pay phone to file an article; covering the community in neighborhood sections; being part of big stories, like the 2002 Beltway sniper shootings and the Virginia Tech massacre, both of which she covered.
''I certainly don't miss working in the journalism that exists today,'' Ms. Arch says, meaning the fretting over the future of the business and hanging onto a fading career.
Her new profession, she says, is interesting, routine and stable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAKE 2: Mary Ellin Arch of The Richmond Times-Dispatch got a master's and a job as spokeswoman for a toll road. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY TEMPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); CURRICULA (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (64%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (81%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (81%); MRK (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



223 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1871 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, A Brooklyn Skyline

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
THE view north across the East River from a high floor at Oro, a new 40-story condominium tower at 306 Gold Street in Downtown Brooklyn, is eye-popping, a panorama of clouds, bridges, water and skyscrapers in Manhattan. But gazing to the south and west from the same perch reveals a more traditional Brooklyn landscape: here a cluster of bank offices, there a line of cars at a Flatbush Avenue traffic light, set against a distant backdrop of low-rises and brownstones.
Oro is part of a recent wave of downtown development, much of it residential, that looks to high-rise Manhattan rather than brownstone Brooklyn as a model. It is changing the borough's face and bringing thousands of new residents to a once mostly commercial area.
In addition to Oro, which started selling in 2007, at least half a dozen high-rises have recently opened or broken ground downtown, a sprawling area broadly defined by Cadman Plaza on the west, Atlantic Avenue to the south, Flatbush Avenue and Fort Greene to the east and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway to the north. They are drawing Manhattanites lured by low rents as well as locals who want modern amenities and a change from brownstones and low-rises. 
Yet the swift pace of development -- abetted by a 2004 rezoning -- has worked in tandem with the recent recession to produce growing pains. Many of the new buildings, hobbled by slow sales in 2008 and 2009, had to reduce prices drastically. And some new residents bemoan the lack of a supermarket, among other services.
The Brooklyner, a 51-story fully occupied rental building at 111 Lawrence Street, is now the tallest building in the borough. On or just off nearby Flatbush Avenue are: Avalon Fort Greene, a 650-unit, 42-story behemoth whose rents range from $2,132, for a studio, to $4,241 for a three-bedroom penthouse; DKLB BKLN, a 36-story rental building at 80 DeKalb Avenue; and Toren, a 38-story glass tower at 150 Myrtle Avenue, where a one-bedroom is available for $475,000 and two-bedrooms can be found from $695,000 to $1.2 million. And all around the neighborhood, recent additions that languished half empty as recently as last year are steadily filling up.
Even Flatbush Avenue itself, at its worst a river of traffic flowing onto and off of the Manhattan Bridge, is looking better: Freshly planted islands in its median were part of $100 million in city-financed streetscape improvements.
One of downtown's new residents, Skip Mooney, bought a unit in Toren last year after 16 years of renting in the West Village. Living in a new building has been good for his allergies, Mr. Mooney, 50, said in an interview. And he called the two-bedroom two-bath apartment, where he lives with his partner Kevin Guyer, a good deal: around $600,000, in a real estate climate that included low interest rates and a 25-year tax abatement.
Still, Mr. Mooney, who 25 years ago lived a few blocks away in pregentrification Fort Greene, says he has stood at his 22nd-story window and entertained some misgivings.
''I just said to myself, 'After 25 years, am I coming full circle and moving back to this neighborhood that I really hated when I lived there?' '' he recalled.
The anxiety mostly passed, he said, when he considered the building's amenities, the abundant public transportation options and the ways that Fort Greene, to his east, has changed. To the west, he said, he still wishes there were more neighborhood services, like restaurants, a dry cleaner and a supermarket.
Even so, Mr. Mooney added: ''I think everyone understands that at some point it's going to come; it's only a matter of time. There's a lot of retail spaces in the ground floors of those buildings that are going to be filled.''
Not long ago, the fate of Downtown Brooklyn's newest buildings was far from a foregone conclusion, as many opened just before the recession hit.
Oro opened for sales in 2007 and did brisk business. It was more than 50 percent sold (a figure that includes closed sales and sales in contract) well before the building was finished. ''People were purchasing as they were pouring the floors,'' said Edward Azria, the manager of sales at Rose Associates, the building's marketing and sales agent.
When the financial crisis hit, though, buyers fled. By September 2009, the building was only 28 percent sold. That was when the building's sponsor, Greenfield Partners, replaced its original marketing agents at Prudential Douglas Elliman with Rose. The new agents re-evaluated the empty apartments, unit by unit, and lowered prices by an average of about 16 percent, Mr. Azria said, though some were reduced far less and others, like a studio, were cut 28 percent. Studios start at $365,000, one-bedrooms at $465,000 and two-bedrooms at $538,000, according to the Rose Web site. A three-bedroom is available for $1.225 million.
Buyers responded, and a little over a year later, about 70 percent of the building's 303 units have been sold, Mr. Azria said.
Other buildings around the neighborhood also took out the scissors. At Be@Schermerhorn, a 246-unit condominium building at 189 Schermerhorn Street, the building's original sponsor refunded early buyers' deposits in the fall of 2009, after early sales momentum flagged. The following spring Jamestown Properties bought the building and, in consultation with marketing agents at the Corcoran Group, overhauled its sales strategy. Seeing price reductions of 20 to 25 percent or more, buyers returned.
''As soon as we opened the doors, it was like gangbusters,'' said Aaron Lemma, a vice president of Corcoran. Six months after the price cuts, Mr. Lemma said, the building is now almost 80 percent sold, with sales on half its units closed.
The sharpest turnaround may have been at the Forte, a 30-story, 107-unit condo three blocks west of Flatbush Avenue on Fulton Street. There, after a bank takeover and a rebranding assisted by Corcoran -- the building is now known by its address, 230 Ashland -- prices were reduced by an average of 40 percent. A high-floor two-bedroom, in particular, was cut to $585,000 from $975,000. That was just after Thanksgiving 2009, and the building is now 100 percent sold, said Adam Pacelli, a senior associate salesman at Corcoran.
Among the buyers are Mr. Pacelli's mother and stepfather, who bought a two-bedroom two-bath unit in July, moving from a poorly lighted one-bedroom on East 46th Street in Manhattan. Much of the new building's appeal has to do with its being on the edge of Fort Greene, according to David Woodrow, Mr. Pacelli's stepfather. He said that when he walked downtown it was usually to pick up something at Duane Reade or to catch a bus to nearby Dumbo. Still, he added, the area's work-in-progress feel makes it an interesting place to explore.
''It's been a very pleasant discovering experience,'' Mr. Woodrow said.
With so many new residents in place, planners and officials hope a more well-rounded neighborhood will soon coalesce. The goal of the 2004 rezoning that made much of the new construction possible was to create a mixed-use environment with thriving office and retail components in addition to residences, said Joe Chan, the president of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, a not-for-profit development corporation.
The area, Mr. Chan said, has not had as much commercial development as he would have liked. But, he added, ''having thousands of talented, highly educated people living in Downtown Brooklyn makes a compelling case for more companies to move to the area.''
Some new tenants in creative industries have already moved in, he said, including the architect Michael Van Valkenburgh and the literary agent Jill Grinberg. Similarly, the area's retail districts are seeing new life, with a branch of H & M and a Shake Shack outpost preparing to join a recently opened Aeropostale apparel store on the Fulton Mall, and a wine store close to opening on the ground floor of Oro.
Mr. Chan says his neighborhood wish list also includes a home furnishings store, an Apple computer store and more mundane neighborhood retail services, like coffee shops, groceries and pharmacies. There is good news, at least, for residents craving a supermarket: A deal to bring a grocery store to the ground floor of Toren has been resurrected after falling through in the spring. Don Capoccia, a principal of BFC Partners, that building's developer, said the store was now set to open late next summer.
Finally, the area's already strong transportation infrastructure is improving. Most of the city's subway lines pass underneath, and in December the Metropolitan Transportation Authority completed a project of many years to connect two major stops, Jay Street and Lawrence Street.
There is even talk of new buildings: In December, plans became public for a 234-unit, 49-story tower on Bridge Street, and a 327-unit, 42-story building by the Dermot Company broke ground last month at 29 Flatbush Avenue. Both are to be rentals, and combined, they will receive nearly $200 million in state money in exchange for including affordable-housing components.
So much residential growth is occurring, in fact, that some people in the neighborhood worry it may be too much. Robert Perris, the district manager of Community Board 2, which represents the area, said the benefits of residences along Flatbush Avenue were clear. But, he added, so are the benefits of a strong commercial district -- and strengthening the commercial district was one of the chief goals of the rezoning. When residential buildings are erected in commercial zones, he said, their lots are lost for commercial purposes.
''There are only so many development sites,'' Mr. Perris said. ''If these sites get developed for residential, they're gone forever.''
Mr. Chan urged patience about the arrival of nonresidential development.
''Has everything been realized in the six years since the rezoning?'' he asked. ''No, but that was never the plan.'' He said what was most important was that ''over the last year, we have seen Downtown Brooklyn hit critical mass as a residential community.''
Mr. Capoccia, of BFC Partners, said the Downtown Brooklyn experience had been a net positive one -- though not one, he said, that his company had plans to repeat. Toren was not exempt from price cuts, he said, but did well by entering the market slightly later than its neighbors, with prices set accordingly. The result, Mr. Capoccia added, was that the company made an average of just over $690 per square foot on the units it sold, less than 10 percent off its initial projections of around $750 per square foot.
''Our plan, of course, was to have been sold out here a long time ago and moved on to our next project,'' he said. Still, it is some consolation to have the best-selling building in the city in terms of units sold, at least according to a Crain's New York Business analysis of numbers from PropertyShark.
''I think the thought and planning that went into it is paying off today,'' Mr. Capoccia added. ''Not paying off like I expected it to pay off, but it's not a burden.''
Meanwhile Mr. Mooney, one of his buyers, was happy to hear plans for a supermarket were back on track.
''People are going to be thrilled -- I'm going to be thrilled -- when that's there,'' he said. ''If it's there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW ALTITUDE: Brooklyn's new towers include, from left, Oro, Avalon Fort Greene, Toren and DKLB BKYN. (RE1)
OVER THE RIVER: Oro, which is doing its bit to change the profile of Brooklyn, has views of a more famous skyline.
38 STORIES: Toren
40 STORIES: Oro
30 STORIES: 230 Ashland Place
URBAN PIONEER: Skip Mooney moved to Toren after 16 years in the West Village. He's awaiting a supermarket. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 51 STORIES: The Brooklyner (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE7) MAPS (RE7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); ZONING (71%); RECESSION (70%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



224 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Moratorium Math Questioned

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
AN authority on Connecticut's affordable-housing law says the state Department of Economic and Community Development granted the town of Darien an affordable-housing moratorium based on ''plainly inaccurate information.''
The expert, Timothy Hollister, a land-use lawyer who helped draft the housing statute, known as 8-30g, says the department gave final approval for the moratorium in the face of contradictory and incorrect data provided by the town.
Mr. Hollister outlined his concerns in a Dec. 28 letter to Joan McDonald, the department's commissioner. He made it clear that he was not seeking a change in the decision, mainly because Darien may gain the amount of affordable housing required for a moratorium anyway, upon the opening later this year of a small rental project for which he helped obtain town approvals. 
His overriding concern, Mr. Hollister said in an interview, is the precedent potentially set by the granting of this moratorium -- or, as he put it, ''the quality, or lack thereof, of the moratorium process and future applications.''
Ms. McDonald expressed confidence in Darien's moratorium application and asserted that it was not the department's responsibility to verify the data it had provided.
''Our obligation is to review the information that the town certifies,'' she said, ''and the town has certified that this information is correct.''
The disagreement punctuates the end of a process that was controversial from the start.
Darien officials have long discussed the possibility of applying for a moratorium in order to get out from under 8-30g. The statute empowers developers of affordable housing to override local zoning restrictions in towns in which less than 10 percent of the housing stock qualifies as affordable.
Darien has roughly 2 percent.
A moratorium provision grants towns a four-year reprieve if they can document progress toward the 10 percent threshold, as calculated through a point system that assigns varying values to different housing types.
Darien is only the third town to be granted a moratorium. Its previous administration didn't think it had enough points to qualify -- very little affordable housing has been built in Darien since 2003 -- but the current first selectman, David Campbell, who was elected in 2009, ordered a re-evaluation.
In an odd twist, it was Mr. Hollister who initially helped Darien make its case for the re-evaluation, by stating in a written opinion that the 189-unit Avalon Darien apartments qualified for more points than originally thought.
Mr. Campbell first tried to keep the moratorium application quiet, so as not to tip off a local affordable-housing developer, Christopher Stefanoni, according to a report in The Darien News.
The newspaper reported that Mr. Campbell e-mailed his fellow selectmen last February to ask that they not discuss the application publicly, so that Mr. Stefanoni wouldn't rush to file more plans. Mr. Stefanoni and the town are in litigation over a proposed housing complex for retirees.
''When we get the moratorium, we can have a party in public,'' Mr. Campbell wrote, according to The News, ''but for now it is private.''
But maintaining privacy backfired: In doing so, the town failed to comply fully with a requirement that it give public notice of its plans.
The department therefore rejected its first application, in April. Town officials then went public, and reapplied in July.
Darien needed 136 points to qualify for a moratorium, and town officials maintained that it had 144. Mr. Stefanoni and his wife, Margaret, disputed that calculation in several lengthy reports to state officials.
In September, Mr. Hollister began to echo some of the Stefanonis' concerns. At issue was Clock Hill Homes, a 30-unit condo development administered by the Darien Housing Authority.
In a letter to the state, Mr. Hollister said that income restrictions on Clock Hill buyers, as defined on the deeds, seemed too high for the development to be counted toward a moratorium. Rules stipulate that units may be so counted only if residents' incomes are restricted to 80 percent of the area median.
But state officials interpreted the Clock Hill income restrictions differently. In October they concluded that although Darien didn't have 144 points, between Avalon Darien and Clock Hill it did have the 136 points needed to meet the threshold. The moratorium application was approved.
Mr. Hollister next cited information from the housing authority, since obtained by The New York Times through a Freedom of Information Act request, confirming that at least since August 1997, the agency had understood the maximum incomes for Clock Hill to be higher than 80 percent of the area median.
Ms. McDonald, in a strongly worded letter, asked the town for an explanation.
The town counsel, John Wayne Fox, responded in November, and declared that none of the condos had ever been sold to anyone with an income above the 80 percent cutoff. He provided a spreadsheet that he said listed verified buyer incomes for all sales and resales.
But Mr. Hollister found flaws in the spreadsheet. For one thing, several households were listed as having annual incomes in the single-digit thousands, one as low as $2,200. To his mind, the incomes were too low to be realistic and a sign that the town hadn't properly verified incomes, perhaps leaving out liquid assets like bank accounts.
Again, he e-mailed the department and Mr. Fox, suggesting that more documentation was needed.
''The only thing I was asking for is to make the town do it correctly,'' Mr. Hollister said.
He received no response.
On Dec. 10, Ms. McDonald issued her decision, saying she was satisfied.
Mr. Fox, a former state legislator who also represents the town of Greenwich, said he stood by the data.
As for Mr. Hollister's concerns, Mr. Fox said, ''He's entitled to his opinion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFFORDABLE? A house at Clock Hill Homes, condos crucial to Darien's argument that it has made strides in providing affordable housing. A critic says supporting data appear flawed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); ZONING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



225 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Hamptons' Life Preserver

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Figuring out the state of the real estate market in the Hamptons can be tricky.
With far fewer properties being sold and listed than in New York City, two $20 million closings in one town in one quarter could make it seem like housing was humming along, when in fact things might be rather quiet.
Still, the large brokerage firms that issue quarterly market reports say that people who can afford to buy in the Hamptons are clamoring now for information. And although fourth-quarter reports will not be released until the end of the month, there is some consensus based on sales data over the last year that the market has shown signs of recovery. 
One potential caveat lies in a weak national housing market, among the most stubborn sectors of an economy that is otherwise improving. The Hamptons fared much worse than Manhattan after the fall of Lehman Brothers.
The high-end market in particular - homes selling for more than $10 million - was scalded by the economic meltdown. And one big change since the recession is that homes selling for under $1 million now make up the largest share of the market; at the height of the real estate boom, high-end homes held that spot.
Sales volume rose, particularly in the first two quarters of 2010, according to reports from several brokerages. But prices are still below those of 2009, which was generally a bad year for the Hamptons.
Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Terra Holdings, the parent company of Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens, said that based on some preliminary figures, he was expecting the final months of 2010 to look something like the first few months: pretty good in the scheme of things.
''It's a slow recovery,'' Mr. Heym said, noting that there were more foreclosures than expected as a result of the recession. ''But what little data I see for the fourth quarter for the Hamptons shows a big jump in the average price, but that could change.''
Brokers say they have seen a notable increase in buyer interest as inventory has risen, partly fueled by more confidence among sellers compared with a year ago.
According to a third-quarter report by the Corcoran Group, the average home price on the East End of Long Island was $1.254 million, down 7 percent from $1.354 million in the third quarter of 2009. An exception, according to several brokerages, was East Hampton. A third-quarter report from Brown Harris Stevens described the town as the only market not to experience a decline in high-end sales, as average prices rose 21 percent over 2009, to $1.87 million. The third-quarter market reports typically reflect closings reported through Oct. 15, and the East Hampton figures do not reflect sales of the more expensive properties in the Village of East Hampton, where prices were down slightly but the number of sales was up, according to the Corcoran report.
The Brown Harris Stevens report noted that the East Hampton average price increase was driven by two closings of more than $20 million in that quarter. Other brokerages, too, reported price increases in East Hampton, with Corcoran showing a 34 percent jump in average prices, to $1.197 million in the third quarter of 2010, from $894,000 in the third quarter of 2009.
While high-end sales continue to lag far behind those of homes under $1 million, the Hamptons luxury market has begun to pick up, according to several brokerages.
Rick Hoffman, a regional senior vice president of Corcoran who oversees East End sales, said he was disappointed that the market over all appeared to slow after the first two quarters of 2010, but encouraged by more sales of expensive properties than in 2009. He said that in 2009 there were 13 sales in the Hamptons involving brokers (four others were direct transfers, say, between family members) on properties in the $10 million-and-higher range, but that in 2010 there were 25 as of mid-December. Still, Paul Brennan, the Hamptons regional manager of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said the gap between asking prices and offers remained wide, muddying the picture of an anomalous success story in East Hampton. For example, he had a listing for a four-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath home on Lily Pond Lane in East Hampton Village, with Martha Stewart as a next-door neighbor. The original asking price was $7.5 million, but the property sold for $4.5 million, he said, with the last asking price at $4.95 million.
''This has all the ingredients,'' Mr. Brennan said. ''Two years ago it would have gone in two seconds,'' at the full asking price. Aspasia G. Comnas, the Brown Harris Stevens executive managing director for the Hamptons, characterized the market as showing ''pockets of activity,'' and said that she was inspired by seeing sales across all price ranges.
''Is it wildly robust?'' she said. ''No. But are we definitely busier than we were last year? Yes. Are things moving in the right direction? Yes. I'm cautiously optimistic, but with more optimism and less caution than I had last year.''
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Sag Harbor home recently sold for about $20 million, $2 million off the asking price. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE CORCORAN GROUP)
Price averages jumped in East Hampton
a home in the estate section is listed for $6.37 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROWN HARRIS STEVENS)
 Homes for under $1 million make up the bulk of the market. A Montauk house is listed for $899,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER STEWART/PRUDENTIAL DOUGLAS ELLIMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



226 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: SEWER-PROJECT BLUES

BYLINE: By M. O. WALSH. 
M. O. Walsh is the author of a story collection, ''The Prospect of Magic.'' His work has appeared in Oxford American magazine and ''Best New American Voices.''

 BODY:
I'm just a guy in pajamas, chuckling about a ''Yo Gabba Gabba!'' episode my year-old daughter and I were watching, when I see a guy with a machete out my window. He's hacking away at branches near my fence as two other men hammer spikes in my lawn. They undoubtedly work for the city. This type of thing ticks me off.
We've had sewer problems ever since my wife and I bought our home in Baton Rouge, La., a few years ago. The pumping station on our street used to give out during big rainstorms, spilling sewage down the slope of our yard, and in 2008, when Hurricane Gustav knocked the power out for two weeks, it was unspeakable. Since then, other things have gone wrong: the worst oil spill in history happened on our coast, the economy wallowed and my teaching contract with Louisiana State University was terminated because of budget cuts. So, lately, I've been a little on edge. Seeing these guys in my yard doesn't help. 
The truth is, ever since our daughter was born, I have become strange with worry. More often than my family realizes, I struggle with doubts about my capability, my authority and my power. Losing a job and raising a child can do that to a person, and it has done it to me. It's nearly noon, and my hair is skewed. All I've said today is, ''You go potty?''
Still, my property is my property. I look around for my dog, a harmless mutt, and picture the two of us barging out of the door, furious, sending these workers scrambling. I go to my bedroom and put on an old pair of jeans and a dirty T-shirt. By the time I get outside to confront them, my daughter in the crook of my arm, the guys are standing in the street.
They look rough and worldly, nothing like the college students I'm used to dealing with. I'm glad I didn't shave. ''Hey, fellas,'' I say. ''What's the story?''
One guy has a cellphone and a scar on his hand. He's probably the leader. ''They're putting in a new sewage line,'' he says. ''We're doing land survey.''
''You can't just come into my yard,'' I tell him. All three of them look disinterested in the stand I'm making.
''It's for the public good,'' he tells me. ''We've got access.''
''I've got a dog,'' I say. ''I've got a kid. You can't just come in my yard without asking. My dog could bite you. My kid could get out.''
''We came out here yesterday,'' he says. ''I met your dog. He seems nice. And what, you don't keep an eye on your kid?''
''That's not the point,'' I say.
The guy gestures at my back fence. ''The city owns 100 feet on each side of that servitude over there,'' he says. ''This is a stimulus project. We'll probably be out here a few weeks. We might have to dig right through your yard.''
''The heck you will,'' I say and storm back to my house. My daughter waves at these men like relatives. ''Stop it,'' I tell her. ''Daddy's upset.''
I spend the rest of the day leaving scathing telephone messages with the manager of the contracting company whose name is on the side of its truck, sounding like someone I don't want to be.
By the time my wife gets home from work, I'm a wreck. I'm making tacos, because they were on sale, for the second time this week. As I rant, she goes to the bedroom to change.
''You don't understand,'' I call to her. ''I'm all about progress. I mean, I voted for this! We both did! Yet here I am out of a job, and these guys are getting paid to tear up our yard.''
Outside our house, a truck pulls up. I can see through the window that it's the manager from the contracting company that sent those guys out here. He's nicely dressed. He looks like a decent, honorable person. He rings the doorbell and waits.
I stare at him and know that I'm not going to win this battle. I have a hard time remembering why I even started it. I just want my family to be proud of me, I guess, to think I have things under control. The guy shades his eyes and peers through the window. I'm wearing an apron that looks like a picnic table. I'm holding a spoon. He sees me and grins.
I hear my wife say: ''Honey, someone's at the door. Can you get it?''
''No,'' I tell her. ''I don't think I can.''
E-MAIL submissions for Lives to lives@nytimes.com Because of the volume of e-mail, the magazine cannot respond to every submission. Share comments on this essay at nytimes.com/magazine.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HOLLY WALES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); OIL SPILLS (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); WEATHER (69%); PARENTING (68%); BUDGETS (68%); PETS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (72%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



227 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: How Long Can U.S. Stocks Keep Their Edge?

BYLINE: By JACK DUFFY

 BODY:
JOHN TEMPLETON may be known as the father of global investing, but the Templeton Growth fund, which he started in 1954, is finding top holdings closer to home these days.
Four American giants -- Microsoft, Oracle, Amgen and Pfizer -- were among the fund's top five holdings as of Nov. 30. The fifth is Accenture, the consulting company that operates widely in the United States but is domiciled in Dublin.
''Ten years ago, we probably had less than 20 percent exposure to the U.S. Now it's in excess of 40 percent,'' said Cindy Sweeting, a manager of the $16.7 billion fund, which can invest in companies located anywhere in the world. ''Many U.S. companies are well positioned globally, and valuations are about as attractive as they have been in a decade.'' 
Mutual funds that invest in United States stocks outperformed international equity funds in 2010, and some investment managers say that is likely to continue this year as American companies, highly profitable and flush with cash, benefit from a strengthening economy. In contrast, debt worries in Europe, inflation fears in China and persistent economic doldrums in Japan suggest that the outlook for major international markets is mixed at best, some money managers say.
''I am more optimistic on the U.S. market,'' said James P. Goff, director of research at Janus Capital and manager of the $254 million Janus Global Research fund. ''We have had a lot of bad news in the United States with high unemployment and low confidence in the government and the markets, but when you take a step back, our companies are in great shape,'' he said. Top holdings of Janus Global Research at the end of November included Apple and I.B.M. as well as Isuzu Motors of Japan and MRV Engenharia e Participacoes of Brazil.
Domestic equity funds returned 17.5 percent, on average, in 2010, compared with 13.3 percent for international stock funds, according to Thomson Reuters, only the third time in the last 10 years that domestic stock funds have outpaced international ones. Part of the domestic advantage in 2010 was found in the dollar, as the euro's 6.5 percent decline against the greenback left European stock markets like Spain's and Italy's down by roughly 20 percent for the year in dollar terms.
But currency factors aside, money managers say a driving force behind international equities -- big gains in emerging-market stocks -- may be running out of steam as a huge capital flows into countries like Brazil, India and China have made these markets more expensive.
''In emerging markets, quality companies with good corporate governance can trade at 20 to 30 times earnings, much higher than the low double-digit valuations of blue-chip companies in the developed world,'' said David Herro, manager of the $6 billion Oakmark International fund. Mr. Herro has reduced his exposure to emerging markets to about 5 percent of the fund and is focusing instead on finding promising stocks in troubled economies like those of Japan and Europe. His top holdings at the end of September included Daiwa Securities and Toyota. He also owned shares of Grupo Televisa of Mexico and Banco Santander of Spain, which has a large part of its business in Latin America.
Emerging-market equity funds returned 19 percent last year, according to Thomson Reuters. They attracted more than $92 billion from investors in 2010, a record amount, according to EPFR Global, a research firm based in Cambridge, Mass. At the same time, investors, still smarting from the collapse in developed-world equity markets in 2008, pulled more than $36 billion from United States stock funds and added nearly $180 billion to bond funds.
But people who are still jumping into emerging markets in Asia and other parts of the world -- on the belief that faster economic growth will translate into stock market gains -- are likely to be disappointed, said Francis M. Kinniry Jr., a principal at the Vanguard Group.
''We don't believe this emerging-markets G.D.P growth story,'' Mr. Kinniry said. Ten years ago, he said, price-to-earnings multiples for emerging-market stocks were in the single digits, while earnings multiples in developed markets were at record highs. ''That discount has now been closed,'' he said. ''We shouldn't expect to see anywhere near the level of performance from emerging markets that we have seen in recent years.''
Stock fund managers say an effective way to participate in the growth of emerging economies may be by holding blue-chip multinational companies.
''When you can get dividend yields in excess of bond yields in blue-chip companies that have exposure to fast-growing emerging markets, that is a pretty attractive proposition at today's prices,'' said Ms. Sweeting at Templeton Growth. She cited drug makers like Merck and Pfizer, which she said received 10 to 15 percent of their revenue from emerging markets and had ''lots of growth potential.''
ALONG with the market reversal that sent domestic stock funds higher than international ones in 2010, some managers say similar dynamics may allow lagging sectors of the American stock market to shine in 2011.
Over the last decade, funds that invest in value stocks, equities that trade cheaply relative to company earnings, have outperformed growth funds, which look for companies expected to increase profits at an above-average rate. Large-company growth funds truly experienced a lost decade, with a negative return of nearly 1 percent a year over the period, according to Thomson Reuters.
But that may be changing. ''After a long period of lagging, domestic large-cap growth stocks are poised to perform well,'' said Larry J. Puglia, manager of the $11.3 billion T. Rowe Price Blue Chip Growth fund, which returned 16.4 percent in 2010. ''These stocks are attractively valued, they have better access to capital than smaller companies and they benefit from rapidly growing economies abroad.''
John Templeton said in 1994 that bull markets ''are born on pessimism, grow on skepticism, mature on optimism and die on euphoria.'' For 2011, many money managers are pulling back from what they see as euphoria in emerging markets.
Ms. Sweeting, the Templeton manager, suggested that domestic stock investors might still be in Stage Two. Despite market gains in 2010, ''sentiment in the U.S. is in some ways still pretty tenuous -- you still have that proverbial wall of worry,'' she said. ''And that makes it a good time to buy stocks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Isuzu Motors trucks await export at a port near Tokyo. Isuzu is a top holding of the Janus Global Research fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INFLATION (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%)

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (85%); PFIZER INC (58%); AMGEN INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); ACCENTURE PLC (57%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (53%); MRV ENGENHARIA & PARTICIPACOES SA (53%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (85%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); ACN (NYSE) (57%); 7202 (TSE) (53%); MRVE3 (BOVESPA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



228 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ENCOUNTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: After the Buzzer

BYLINE: By PAT JORDAN. 
Pat Jordan is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
I rst meetTim Donaghy on a cold November evening in Sarasota, Fla., a year after he left prison. He looks leaner than he did as an N.B.A. ref, almost gaunt, with a long face and prominent, rabbity teeth. Tonight is family-dinner night -- he has chosen an Italian joint in the town's upmarket minimall -- and around Donaghy sit his newish girlfriend, Carolyn; her 12yearold daughter; and his own preteen girls, Bridget and Molly. His two other daughters, both teenagers, declined the invitation, wanting nothing to do with their father or this dinner.
It has not been easy for Donaghy to reconnect with his four girls. ''They're loyal to my ex-wife,'' he says, ''not me.'' Bridget is silent with him all night; Molly, a freckle-faced sprite, defiant. He told her to wear long pants on this chilly evening. She's wearing shorts to show off her new Uggs. 
For the 13 years he was an N.B.A. referee, Donaghy was a traveling dad, gone from his daughters for days at a time and then over-the-top effusive when at home. But in 2007, Donaghy was arrested for using, and then sharing, his knowledge of league directives, the personalities of fellow refs, the philosophies of N.B.A. coaches and the physical condition of players to place bets on league games, including some he officiated. ''No different than Wall Street insider trading,'' he says now. ''Except I didn't affect the economy.'' He became, in the media, ''the rogue ref,'' ''the fixer ref,'' ''the disgraced ref'' who ''ratted out'' his friends and fellow officials to save his own skin. And things with his girls haven't been the same since. ''It's devastating to me,'' he says.
During his 15 months in detention -- split between federal prisons and a halfway house and including 15 days in solitary confinement -- Donaghy also grew estranged from his wife and more than a few close friends. He didn't make any new ones on the inside, either. When he informed the warden of all the gambling that was taking place within his Pensacola prison camp, Donaghy heard ''rumblings about physical retaliation.'' A few days later, he walked past an inmate who screamed, ''Rat! Rat! Rat!'' before whacking him on the knee with a long-handled paint roller. Eventually Donaghy needed an operation, which he had to pay for himself.
Despite his conviction, Donaghy is known more as a celebrity than as a felon in Sarasota. At our dinner together, a white-haired man at another table waved Donaghy over just to chat him up, and smiling women regularly approach him on the street. ''Most guys come out of prison, no one knows them,'' Carolyn, tells me, clearly tickled. ''But after Tim appeared on '60 Minutes' last December, everyone knew him.''
Notoriety is one thing; gainful employment another. When Donaghy got out of prison, he sent out 150 job resumes and a cover letter explaining his past. A prospective employer summoned him for an interview without having read his note. ''The guy says: 'Hey Tim, you're terrific. An N.B.A. ref! Why'd you leave such a great job?' '' Donaghy says. ''The man never read my letter. He thought I quit a $300,000 job for a $47,500 one. After he did read it, he said, 'Uh, I don't think you're going to work out.' ''
Few other opportunities have worked out. Donaghy told me that he hasn't seen a penny from his tell-all book, ''Personal Foul.'' He spoke at a gambling-treatment center, but he says the man who ran it never paid him. A Vegas casino asked him to be its N.B.A. handicapper for $10,000 a month; it even offered to pay him $7,500 just to use his image and reputation. But Donaghy's probation officer forbade him from accepting the gig. He's paying his bills now by blogging and commenting on the air for an Allentown, Pa., radio show called the Sports Connection. He also makes $5,000 per speaking engagement, like the one he booked at a convention on problem gambling in Sacramento, where he told his life story as the keynote speaker. He hopes to someday become the host of a sports-radio talk show.
The afternoon after the family dinner, we get into his 11-year-old BMW (''My mother-in-law smashed it up twice when I was in prison'') and drive to Molly's softball game. Quality family time. We sit high up in the bleachers to take in the spectacle: shrieking little girls, softballs thrown all over the field. Molly wears pink batting gloves and a pink batting helmet. Donaghy then points to a woman below us bundled in a blanket: his ex-wife, Kim. Later, they'll pass each other in silence, eyes averted.
In the last inning of the game, Molly comes to bat with the score tied and the bases loaded. Donaghy yells out, ''Come on, Molly!'' She tugs on her helmet, taps her bat in the dirt, digs in her feet and then hits a game-winning single over second base. The girls and parents and Donaghy are all screaming; Molly's teammates are thumping her on the back. Then, as Donaghy and I walk down the bleachers, we watch as girls from both teams shake hands. He gives me this look that falls somewhere between amused and disgusted. ''When I played,'' he says, laughing, ''you punched out the guy who beat you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (89%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); FELONIES (73%); INSIDER TRADING (64%); ARRESTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



229 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Reproductive Choices Women Face

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Unborn Paradox'' (column, Jan. 2): Ross Douthat seems to be suggesting that women with unintended pregnancies should bear children rather than have abortions because infertile women want babies. In doing so, Mr. Douthat ignores the serious health risks that pregnancies sometimes incur. Should women with unwanted pregnancies be compelled to take those risks?
Consider New Year's Eve, a typical night on my obstetrics floor. Several pregnant women were suffering from complications. Two needed emergency surgery. One was 19 years old and 20 weeks pregnant with an abnormal fetus. She had decided to see the pregnancy through. But the amniotic sac ruptured five months early. We had to stop the heavy bleeding and infection that followed. Her baby didn't survive. 
Abortion opponents would impose all the risks of pregnancy on women who wish to end their pregnancies. Instead, let's make sure that everyone on the socioeconomic ladder can prevent and plan conception.
Anne Davis New York, Jan. 3, 2011
The writer, an obstetrician, is medical director of Physicians for Reproductive Choice and Health.
To the Editor:
I have supported abortion rights for as long as I can remember, but nothing cemented my commitment to women's reproductive freedom like my own very much wanted pregnancy nine years ago.
As I grew increasingly delighted about both my experience of pregnancy and planning for a life with twin babies, I imagined how differently I would feel in other circumstances. What if I were 14 rather than 34? What if my partner and I had as many children as we could handle, or more? What if one or both of us were unemployed?
How might our thrill at the short-term changes in my body and the long-term changes in our lives transform into dread, depression and anxiety?
Moreover, just because expectant parents are able to think of the fetus as a baby does not mean it actually is one, and that abortion is the same as the taking of an actual life, rather than a fantasized one.
Sarah E. Chinn Brooklyn, Jan. 3, 2011
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat provides an eloquent analysis of the abortion conundrum. We embrace the humanity of our ''wanted'' babies while we strip the human rights from those whose conception was unplanned and unwanted. And yet, the circumstances of conception don't change the fact that a child in the womb is a separate and unique human being, morally and ethically entitled to the same rights as you and I.
Mr. Douthat also points out that adoption has become an unlikely choice for young mothers like Markai Durham, the subject of an MTV show, who says she couldn't bear to give up a child she carried in her womb for nine months, and opts, instead, to kill that child.
Did anyone along the way point out the deadly flaw in her thinking? Markai and the million-plus babies who fall into the ''unwanted'' category every year deserve to be given a choice that doesn't involve murder. (Rev.)
Frank Pavone National Director, Priests for Life Staten Island, Jan. 3, 2011
To the Editor:
What MTV depicted in its documentary ''No Easy Decision,'' and what Ross Douthat does not acknowledge in his column, is that Markai Durham and thousands of women like her are capable of sensitively and wisely weighing the decisions that have consequences of life or death.
Mr. Douthat offers no evidence that fewer abortions would mitigate complex fertility treatments or the enormous amount of bureaucratic red tape surrounding the adoption process. Many studies in fact suggest that, in a culture that treasures biological children, prospective parents opt first for fertility treatments and then, if at all, pursue adoption.
A thoughtful look at reproductive decision-making is always welcome, but a broadside that once again seeks to demonize and make guilty those women who elect to terminate their pregnancies is not adding to the civil discourse.
Conflating fertility, adoption and abortion in no way alleviates the myriad challenges involved in deciding whether or not to become a parent.
Joan Malin President and C.E.O. Planned Parenthood of New York City New York, Jan. 3, 2011
To the Editor:
I disagree with Ross Douthat's appraisal of adoption as an answer to unplanned pregnancies and infertility. I have worked with many pregnant teenagers and young adult women in my 25 years as a director of an adoption agency, and adoption is only a small part of the solution.
While I am obviously sympathetic to the desire of infertile couples to become parents, their needs can never supersede those of pregnant women who are not prepared to be parents.
Research has shown that abortion very rarely leads to long-term negative psychological consequences for those women who choose it (myself included).
Yes, of course there is regret and sadness for some women, but carrying a baby to term and placing him or her for adoption more often than not leads to a lifetime of pain and sadness, regardless of how right the situation may seem. It is the right choice for the very few.
Abortion and adoption are two ends of the same spectrum -- women having choices about their reproductive lives. But the agony of a woman placing a child for adoption cannot be understated.
Randie Bencanann San Francisco, Jan. 3, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ASTRID CHESNEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (96%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); ABORTION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (77%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (77%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); ETHICS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



230 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; NOTEBOOK GRADES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Too Much Information

BYLINE: By LISA A. PHILLIPS. 
Lisa A. Phillips, author of ''Public Radio: Behind the Voices,'' is assistant professor of journalism at the State University of New York at New Paltz.

 BODY:
A FEW weeks after I started a tenure-track job last semester at the State University of New York at New Paltz, an e-mail message landed in faculty in-boxes relaying the news that an online textbook-rental company had requested records for all grades awarded on campus since 2007.
The company, Chegg.com, wanted grade distributions -- how many A's, B's, C's, etc., were given -- organized by semester, course section and instructor, without individual student information. The request was made under New York's Freedom of Information Law, which allows the public to access state government records. That definition covers grades at state universities, according to SUNY New Paltz lawyers. So the administration had to give up the goods. 
Chegg, a rapidly growing company backed by more than $221 million in venture and debt capital, sent similar requests to 533 colleges and universities, according to Tina Couch, its vice president of public relations. The company is in the process of uploading the grades on CourseRank.com, a class planning Web site that Chegg acquired in August. Students who register for CourseRank will be able to take into account a professor's grade distribution, along with peer reviews and ratings, when deciding whether to take a class.
I am well accustomed to online scrutiny. When I started teaching, part time, seven years ago, I found out about RateMyProfessors.com, the go-to site for students to dish about their teachers. I cruised it regularly at first. I was elated when I got a good comment (''sweetest/smartest lady ever''), crushed when I got a disparaging one (''avoid her like the plague'') and vaguely disappointed that no one had ever awarded me a chili pepper, the icon of professor ''hotness.''
But the CourseRank plan would take the concept of RateMyProfessors into an entirely different dimension. In addition to the free-for-all of user comments and ratings, students would be getting some real goods, a bar graph version of my grade book.
The thought of it made me squeamish. I had always considered grades a private matter. I didn't dwell on the question of whether I was an easy grader or a hard one -- I simply tried to be fair. My grade distributions changed semester by semester, as my students did. I felt pride when I could give an abundance of A's and disappointment when I passed out a heavy dose of C's. I pondered what went right and what I could do better. But ultimately I saw my grades as a measure of what my students achieved. Presented online to students, my grades would now be a mark of my achievement.
The irony was glaring. The Freedom of Information Act, long cherished by investigative reporters, had become a tool for a textbook-rental company to draw traffic to one of its Web sites. And there I was, a professor of journalism, being muckraked.
Not that there was anything scandalous to find, as it turns out. I requested my grade distribution for the six sections of Journalism 1 that I had taught since 2007. About a third of my students got A's, 40 percent got B's, and close to 20 percent got C's, with a D or F here and there. My median grade was 3.22, in between a B and B plus and slightly below the average department median grade for all sections of Journalism 1, which was 3.31.
On the surface, it didn't look like my grades would present much of an issue for students. But I would be moving forward with a new awareness that students could judge me on my grades. With that might come the temptation to grade more gently, to make a play to increase my likability and to encourage students to flock to my classes.
What students think of me has an impact, after all, on my job security. I am junior faculty at a university that takes student evaluations into account in the tenure and promotion process. Though I want to be a professor with high standards, I also want to please. And I want to keep my job.
There are signs that giving students information about grade distributions does stimulate grade inflation. Some universities already make median grades or grade distributions available to students. A 2009 study at Cornell showed that since it began making median course grades available in 1998, more students had enrolled in classes with higher median grades; the percentage of courses with median grades in the A range also increased.
But Stuart Rojstaczer, a former Duke University professor who monitors grading trends, says that going public with grade distributions could eventually turn the tide against grade inflation by outing professors who grade too leniently. ''Right now, there are still a significant percentage of administrators who maintain grade inflation is not a problem,'' he says. ''But when asked for grade distribution information, they don't want to put it out there. Sunlight is good.''
But students shopping for classes would be getting only a little sunlight at a time -- that is, data without statistical ballast. Most professors don't teach the same course six times in a row, as I had with Journalism 1. My grade distribution was taken from more than a hundred students -- enough to result in a significant median. A handful of wayward students out of a class of 16, or an abundance of gifted ones, could make a professor's grading standards seem artificially high, or low.
What we faculty are up against is something journalists and scholars struggle with all the time: information out of context. On the surface, providing students with grading practices may seem like full disclosure. But what students are really receiving might best be called (with a nod to their beloved Stephen Colbert) ''factiness'' -- something that looks and smells like facts, but in reality is far from truth.
For grade distributions to be useful, students need to know whether the information is compiled from 10 students or 300. They need to be aware of all the variables that an online grade graph can't possibly show: the quality of the students enrolled in the class, the level of difficulty of the subject matter, the resolutions many professors make at the end of the previous semester to be more (or less) demanding the next time around.
Students also should appreciate that the courses that frustrate them now -- with their high expectations and ''unfair'' grades -- are sometimes the ones that, years later, become the most valuable.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY ANNA PARINI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC TENURE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



231 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: I'm Making A Living From My Hobbies

BYLINE: By FRANK HYMAN. 
E-mail: preoccupations@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN 1986, I was a 26-year-old college dropout and world traveler who had decided that I didn't want a job, much less a career. What I really wanted was to get paid for my hobbies: writing, gardening and politics. So I made that my goal.
By the age of 28, I was writing freelance articles for a regional newspaper. At 32, I started a successful gardening business. And at 33, I cut off my ponytail, borrowed a suit and unseated an incumbent to gain a seat on the City Council in Durham, N.C., where I served part time for four years. 
Now I make a comfortable living from the following seven hobbies -- though sometimes I prefer the terms ''avocations'' or ''callings,'' as they better reflect my seriousness:
Sculpture. I have completed 18 site-specific residential sculptures. For example, using a chain saw, I created a castle out of a tree stump.
Stonemasonry. I build old-style stone walls without mortar.
Woodworking. Clients hire me to create tree houses, moon gates and trellises.
Gardening. I create residential gardens that grow flowers, food and fragrance. When making a garden, I feel like I'm a kid who's out at recess, playing with rocks and sticks and dirt.
Photography. My images have been printed in national magazines.
Writing. My work has appeared in gardening magazines, and I am a contributing editor for Horticulture magazine.
Politics. Since leaving the City Council, I've worked as a community organizer, and last fall, I was hired as campaign manager for a candidate for a superior court judge seat. (He lost.)
Oh, and if talking and waving your arms around in front of a crowd could be considered a hobby, I teach a local politics class at a friend's bed and breakfast, and have been recruited to speak about gardening at conferences and public gardens.
In short, I feel as if I haven't had a regular ''job'' since 1992. I'm riding out the recession just fine -- staying busy during the course of the day with what strikes my mood. Often, that means writing in the morning, making gardens or sculptures in the afternoon, and always carrying my Canon camera while on errands.
You might think it would be hard to juggle my clients, but I screen out the impatient ones with my lackadaisical phone message: '' ... not sure when I'll get back to you.'' And when we meet, I surreptitiously gauge them for reasonableness by saying things like: ''I can get to it in March. Or maybe April.''
My health insurance is inferior to what's available in other developed democracies, but it's not bad. I also enjoy a European-style schedule of five or six weeks' annual vacation. And I can afford to invest in my retirement. It also helps that my wife makes money through a book design business of which she is a co-owner.
I understand if you're not ready to trade your day job for making a living from your hobbies. But for those who are game, here are my touchstones.
First, I'd say that you can find out what makes you happy only by trying lots of things. I didn't discover my enthusiasm for plants until I was 20 and watching foreign friends season frites with rosemary that grew wild next to our tents in a Spanish orange grove.
You also have to take ownership of your education. Read what you need. Follow your curiosity. Even now, I budget nearly $1,000 a year for workshops, books and conferences.
Also be aware of the ''90 percent rule.'' That means that for ''glamorous'' professions like sports, art, entertainment and, yes, writing, about 90 percent of the people who try to make a living that way never make a red cent. About 9 percent might make some money in their field, and 1 percent or less are able to make some kind of living, and probably not a glamorous one.
I couldn't -- and given my temperament, probably wouldn't want to -- make a living from only one of my callings. I'm not vain enough to anticipate being in the 1 percent, so I figure I'm doing well if I can break into the 9 percenters. Having more than one avocation in play also means I can respond to the market and my mood, by dialing up or down the time invested in each one.
AND here's some very important advice: You have to develop a tolerance for the setbacks that come with learning. Mistakes are just a message to try again but in a different way, and failures are a one-room schoolhouse for the adventurous. I tell my shocked gardening students that I've killed more plants than all of them put together. But knowing what to do sometimes comes from learning what not to do.
Lastly, I'd say that you have to untrain your brain by traveling, so get a passport.
So there it is. For the last 18 years, I've been living out every dream I had as a teenager and as a young man. Now that I'm 50, my existential quandary is to come up with new dreams to pursue.
Hmm. Maybe it's time to buy a guitar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Hyman has combined seven avocations into a career. He worked on a sculpture that will also serve as a home for local birds in Durham, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); SCULPTURE (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HORTICULTURE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (72%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (72%); CITIES (70%); JUDGES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



232 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: I Want My Money Back (on Everything)

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
PART of making money in this topsy-turvy world is to see the opportunities others don't. Back when a single computer filled a whole room, this meant recognizing the potential for a personal computer. And it meant knowing that someday millions of people would reach into the ether with desktop machines of unimaginable power to look at porn and give money to Nigerian princes.
Not all such feats of human imagination pay off, and it's not always easy to tell why. People have bought millions of Snuggies, for example, but nobody seems interested in my idea for a Chia Robe, allowing environmentally conscious couch potatoes to wear a soft blanket of greenery.
The fact that my genius goes unrecognized saddens me, but no longer surprises. I've grown accustomed to sentences that begin, ''But Schwartz, you moron.'' Surely, there's some envy at play there. 
The upside of this scorn is that it's made me sensitive to the genius of others.
Consider the student at Boston College Law School who recently sent an anonymous open letter to its dean. The student wrote that he was in ''a more desperate place than most,'' with a baby on the way and enormous debt piled up from paying B.C. tuition. He said he was ''resentful at the thought that I was convinced to go to law school by empty promises of a fulfilling and remunerative career.''
Where you or I might cry in our beer, or wait and see what kind of job we can get after getting out of school, or take responsibility for our decisions, he decided on the kind of plan that Wile E. Coyote used to call ''super genius.''
He wrote: ''I am willing to leave law school, without a degree, at the end of this semester. In return, I would like a full refund of the tuition I've paid over the last two and a half years.''
A moment of appreciative silence, please.
I went to law school myself, back when a guy like me could get into law school. I don't recall seeing a money-back guarantee. But let's not quibble. The law student, who took up a seat that somebody else would have paid for, and who listened to professors whose salaries his tuition helped to pay, thinks a money-back guarantee is the way to go.
Because law isn't a sure thing? Wow! What graduate degree would put him on a more certain path? A degree in journalism? Good luck with that. How about English, or semiotics?
There's no doubt that law schools have overbuilt and that the legal profession has overpromised. The lawyers' own professional organization, the American Bar Association, has warned college students considering law school that it's no sure path to riches.
''The combination of the rising cost of a legal education and the realities of the legal job market mean that going to law school may not pay off for a large number of law students,'' the group wrote on its Web site. While many lawyers have satisfying careers, it said, ''students should think twice before going to law school simply for the money.''
Some have called the letter to the Boston College Law School dean a joke or a stunt, but I see it as the glimmering of an economic revolution. Roll with me here. What college wouldn't want to broaden its appeal with a money-back guarantee? That's what Lansing Community College in Michigan announced last March: take its vocational courses, show up for every class, make the grade and the school will guarantee you a job or refund the tuition.
The courses are for jobs like call-center specialists, pharmacy technicians, quality inspectors and computer machinists. If call-center specialists can get guarantees, why not lawyers?
There are guarantees all around us. Luvs diapers promise that ''if you are not satisfied with the leakage performance of Luvs (compared to your current brand), we will refund your money.''
The comparisons to getting a legal career are, I should hope, obvious. Don't make me spell them out. This is a family newspaper.
And speaking of family newspapers, how about a money-back guarantee on that wonderful activity that our Edwardian standards allow us to call the ultimate act of love? That's the promise of LuvEssentials, a company that sells pheromones. The company -- and with a name like LuvEssentials, how could it not be scientifically rigorous? -- says on its Web site, ''if for any reason you are not satisfied we offer a NO QUESTIONS ASKED FULL REFUND policy.''
The company makes very specific promises, as well, from ''increased frequency of dates'' and ''increased frequency of affectionate gestures'' to ''increased frequency of sexual intercourse.''
As far as I know, however, none of this is helping our poor law student friend. So I called Stephen P. Younger, the president of the New York State Bar Association. He's given a lot of thought to the problems of people like that student, and suggested that the current foreclosure crisis could be a full-employment act for the legal profession.
''We have all these people in America who need lawyers -- their houses are foreclosed, they have consumer debt,'' he said. ''They can't get a lawyer.''
The problem, he said, is that somebody shouldering $150,000 in law school debt can't afford to work for less than about $65,000 and hope to pay off the creditors. While big law firms that have been derided as ''robo-signers'' may make plenty of money by turning the foreclosure business into a mass production line, newly minted individual practitioners can't benefit from those economies of scale. And so, he said, today's students can't cash in.
''I call them the lost generation,'' he said.
He's calling for some kind of debt forgiveness plan, but I'm thinking much bigger than that. Try to follow my logic: If lawyers in the financial-distress business can't pay off their bills, well, they can always file for bankruptcy. Who better? They need to spend a lot of time at the courthouse anyway. Call it on-the-job training. And their personal failure could be great business for another lawyer. The circle of good grows and grows. Talk about paying it forward!
But don't call it a Ponzi scheme. That's unkind. Shame on you.
I brought this vision to Mr. Younger. He laughed nervously. ''You'd better ask a bankruptcy lawyer, not me,'' he said.
Scoffers, everywhere! But I tell you, this can work. It will work. It must work -- for the legal profession, and for the future of our great nation.
Or your money back.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); LAWYERS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



233 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Crafting a Recovery

BYLINE: By ANN HOOD. 
Ann Hood is the author, most recently, of ''The Red Thread.''

 BODY:
Providence, R.I.
I HAVE been knitting a lot lately -- as I do whenever the New England weather turns colder. Baby hats and fingerless gloves. Blankets and dishrags. I've returned to a scarf I once grew bored with, a sweater I never finished.
I learned to knit in 2002, six months after my 5-year-old daughter, Grace, died suddenly from a virulent form of strep. I was unable to read or write, and friends suggested I take up knitting; almost immediately I fell under its spell. The clicking of the wooden needles, the soft yarn spilling onto my lap, the rhythm of repeating stitches helped to soothe my broken heart. Time passed, as it will, and eventually I was back to books -- reading them and writing them. 
It had been a few years since I'd gone to a knitting circle, but on a recent Friday, I headed to Fresh Purls, a three-and-a-half-year-old knitting store on Hope Street here in Providence. The owner, Karen Holmes, was a casualty of the economic downturn when she was laid off from her product manager job at a local technology company.
''Why don't you open that knitting store you've always dreamed of?'' her husband suggested. In March 2007, Fresh Purls opened its doors.
As the Rhode Island economy continues to struggle, business at Fresh Purls is, in Karen's word, ''awesome.'' Crafts like sewing and quilting are also on the rise. ''People aren't taking as many vacations or going out as often,'' Karen noted. ''So they're looking for things to do at home.''
At noon, women began to arrive, taking out patterns, yarn and needles. We cabled and purled, knit in stockinette and garter stitches. The store manager, Helen, helped me turn some gorgeous blue and pink and green stitches I had started as a sweater for my daughter Annabelle into a vest. I wasn't the only one there salvaging discarded knitting: more aware than ever how much that skein of alpaca costs, how many expensive skeins it would take to make a shawl, many knitters had been searching through their stashes for abandoned projects.
Within an hour, the store was full, and the clacking of needles filled the air. Helen and Karen checked gauges and corrected mistakes, scurried to find measuring tapes and stitch holders. I got lost in the simple task of knit one, purl one, adding a row of turquoise to the borders of the vest. Eventually, the crowd thinned as women left to pick up kids at school or return to work. All of us, I knew, felt calmer and lighter. Whatever weighed on us -- our personal sorrows, our financial woes, our uncertain futures -- had temporarily vanished as we knitted. ''It's cheaper to buy a sweater at Target,'' Karen pointed out. ''People don't knit to save money.''
As I leave the store, Helen tells me that Fresh Purls is running a food drive for the Rhode Island Community Food Bank: ''If you bring in a can of food, you can pick a tag from the basket and get a discount on yarn.''
It gets dark early these winter days. The sky is most often pewter and the wind is sharp. We bundle up here, wrapping ourselves in scarves and hats and mittens. I already have a pattern ready for a baby blanket, the brightly colored yarn waiting to be cast on to bamboo needles, that will take many evenings in front of my fireplace to finish. In my neighborhood, across my state and beyond, more and more people will be taking up their own winter knitting projects, keeping hard times at bay, if even just for a little while.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRISON HAYNES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (93%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); QUILTS & QUILTING (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (91%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



234 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW PREVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: It's Time for a Checkup: Vital Signs Seem Stronger

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
BY any conventional measure, the auto show season has been under way for months, with last fall's major exhibitions in Paris and Los Angeles showcasing dozens of new vehicles. Yet for many who follow the car industry, the annual cycle of introductions and corporate chest-beating doesn't really start until the Motor City lays out the welcome mat for the world's automakers.
So you might think promoters for the 2011 North American International Auto Show, which opens Monday for the first of two press preview days at Cobo Center in Detroit, would be warming up the audience with the plot line of a comeback story. After all, Chrysler and General Motors have managed to whistle past the graveyard, and the final sales tally for 2010 shows a solid market resurgence.
Instead, the organizers of the Detroit show are using cautious medical analogies to describe the improving prospects for the auto business as a whole, and for their show in particular. 
''You can sense -- not a full recovery just yet -- but an automotive industry patient that is getting stronger and stronger,'' a spokesman for the Detroit show, Sam Locricchio, said.
The 2011 version of the American automakers' hometown gala is expected to feature the world debuts of at least 30 cars and trucks. That would be a modest improvement over 2010 -- when the industry was still reeling from the effects of the recession and the Detroit show was still in a fragile state of health -- and markedly better than the somber Detroit show in January 2009.
In recent weeks, the show organizers have seemed upbeat about the patient's long-term prognosis. ''A bevy of new products is on the horizon -- we are looking at 30 to 40 worldwides alone,'' Mr. Locricchio said, referring to vehicles not seen at any previous show.
The increased number of cars in automakers' displays this year will fill Cobo Center's main hall to overflowing, organizers say. In fact, innovative main-floor attractions like last year's Electric Avenue display for electric vehicles have been pushed out.
This crush of new products promises displays that are more appealing than they have been in recent years, when the cars of many makers were widely spaced across lumpy carpeting. No, the show is not yet ready to return to its profligate ways of a decade ago, when Ford reportedly spent as much as $30 million on its multitiered Detroit display. But the budgets have been stretched a bit further.
''The exhibitors have taken it all to a newer level as to how they package these new vehicles within exhibits,'' Mr. Locricchio said.
''Steel is going up this year,'' said Barron Meade, a Lexus dealer in the Detroit area who is chairman of the 2011 show.
''More steel is being used structurally this year,'' Mr. Locricchio agreed. ''That's not saying they were held together with cardboard in prior years, but they're now using bigger structures. Specifically, more exhibitors are going with two-tiered structures -- building up and out -- and thus more metal.
''It's almost like companies are looking to deliver on, or prove, all the promises made -- or felt -- in 2010 at N.A.I.A.S., with product, optimism and pride after what the world went through economically in 2009.''
Though the show's organizers were tight-lipped about the vehicles that will be this year's debutantes, the manufacturers seemed more forthcoming than WikiLeaks. While there are surely some surprises that have been held back for the press previews, photos of many coming models have been distributed on the Internet or provided as artfully disguised teasers by the automakers. Still, there are treats in store for the roughly 5,000 journalists who will descend on the convention center for the media presentations.
By all indications, it is possible that the most visually arresting of the design studies will be from South Korea companies: Hyundai has promised to take the wraps off its Veloster small car concept, and Kia is planning the introduction of the KV7 crossover concept.
Each of those dream machines features high-character styling that is likely to elude other concept cars expected here, which are little more than production-ready vehicles dolled up in sparkly wheels, gargantuan tires and eye-watering paint schemes.
Examples of the latter are likely to include the Honda Civic concept, which is due to be in production by spring; Volkswagen's New Midsize Sedan concept, which will be built in Chattanooga, Tenn.; and GMC's Sierra All-Terrain HD concept, a brawny take on the existing Sierra full-size pickup.
Compared with past years, when Detroit's automakers played to the home crowd with tire-smoking muscle machines and flights of design fancy never intended for production, the Motor City fare this time around is tame.
Chrysler is officially introducing its redesigned 300 sedan here, even though information about the car was revealed last month, along with a significantly upgraded Jeep Compass. Chevrolet will roll out the Sonic subcompact, a replacement for the Aveo. Buick will unveil a new entry-level compact car, the Verano, and Ford will unwrap the next Escape crossover and the C-Max minivan.
Detroit's luxury brands, Lincoln and Cadillac, will introduce, collectively, nothing.
Missing entirely from the show will be Nissan, Infiniti, Aston Martin, Rolls-Royce, Suzuki, Mitsubishi and Fisker, some of whom have not participated in recent years. Porsche's new parent, Volkswagen, has summoned the sports car maker to return to Cobo after years of absence; Porsche is poised to unveil a new supercar concept, one of the few high-horsepower models that will be shown in Detroit.
Among other German manufacturers, BMW is introducing a 6 Series convertible and Audi is showing its new A6 sedan. Mercedes-Benz will display the next edition of its coupelike CLS four-door and an electric version of the SLS gullwing called the E-Cell; the company will offer a sneak peek at its next C-Class at a private event outside the show hall.
Relatively few alternative-fuel vehicles are expected to be in the lineup, perhaps a harbinger of a trend worth keeping track of. Meanwhile, Toyota plans to expand its Prius lineup to an entire family of vehicles, including a wagon concept, plug-in versions and a future technology showcase. BYD, the show's lone Chinese manufacturer, plans to show a hybrid electric version of its S6 sedan. Sweden's Volvo, now owned by a Chinese company, the Geely Holding Group, is expected to display an E.V. version of its C30 hatchback.
Electric vehicles will again be available for sampling in Cobo's basement, but last year's EcoXperience, like the Electric Avenue display, is gone. In its place will be a sort of trade show, sponsored by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and DTE Energy, called Smarter Living in Michigan. The focus is to provide charging solutions for E.V. buyers, at home and work, and for those interested in ecofriendly lifestyles, organizers said.
''No one is at the stage of popping Champagne corks yet,'' said Mr. Locricchio, the show executive. ''It's not a return to the good ol' days. But as the Tom Petty song says, 'The good ol' days may not return.'
''Instead, we have a 'new normal' in terms of economics globally,'' he said. ''These types of never-before-seen vehicles certainly show signs of an industry adapting, evolving and moving forward. We certainly see great signs of progress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHOWSTOPPERS: Counterclockwise from above, the battery-powered Mercedes-Benz SLS E-Cell
the redesigned Chrysler 300 and the Ford C-Max minivan. (AU1)
 REALITY: Clockwise from left, production models in Detroit include the Buick Verano, the next Mercedes CLS and the Jeep Compass. (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); CEMETERIES (69%); BUDGETS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



235 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts From '70s Confront Brown Again in California

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The last time Jerry Brown was governor of California, voters passed Proposition 13, drastically slashing local property taxes and constraining lawmakers from raising any other taxes. Mr. Brown first fought the proposition but then executed it with gusto and sent billions of dollars from the state to school districts and counties to help offset the lost revenues.
That may be a decision that Mr. Brown has come to regret, as his career has come full circle and taken him back to Sacramento 33 years later to confront yet another budget crisis.
As much as Proposition 13 signaled a national revolt against taxes that reverberates to this day, its actual legacy in California -- not just the proposition itself, but the way Mr. Brown and the Legislature responded to it -- has emerged as a major obstacle to the new governor as he confronts what is probably the worst fiscal crisis in this state's history. 
The measure cut off a major source of revenue by capping property taxes at 1 percent of valuation and required a two-thirds vote by the Legislature to raise taxes. And because it cut property tax collections by local government by nearly two-thirds, the state, initially at Mr. Brown's behest, took on more and more costly responsibility for financing schools, welfare and other services that were once the responsibilities of local governments.
An estimated 70 percent of the taxes collected by the state now goes to local governments.
On Monday, Mr. Brown will propose a fiscal rescue plan to deal with the state's budget crisis that aides said would propose shifting back to local governments many of the programs that the state took over. In effect, it is an about-face from what Mr. Brown did the first time he was governor.
And then, to give local governments the ability to pay for the programs in the short term, Mr. Brown will also propose that voters approve an initiative to temporarily extend $10 billion worth of taxes, due to expire later this year.
More fundamental, Mr. Brown is also likely to call for local governments to be given greater authority to raise taxes on their own to pay for those programs in the future; right now, they are limited by Proposition 13 and other state initiatives.
Mr. Brown is not the only governor struggling to find new approaches to budgeting in the hope of addressing the shattering effects the recession has had on state governments. But the crisis in California stands out because of its severity, complexity and size. Mr. Brown is facing a budget shortfall of $28.5 billion.
Local officials across the state have been bracing for the impact of shifting the programs back to them, which some said could force tough decisions about whether to cut programs, like schools and public safety, or raise taxes.
Others said that Mr. Brown was not going far enough and that the time had come to confront Proposition 13 head-on by, for example, lifting the property tax cap on commercial properties.
''The Proposition 13 debate needs to happen; we've just got to be honest,'' Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles said. ''At a time of a financial crisis as great as any the state has faced in modern times, the time is now to address the inequity of Prop 13 that allows large corporate interests to get a windfall meant for homeowners. We are not funding government. We are just decimating government and the services it provides.''
But Jon Coupal, the president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which was founded by one of the authors of Proposition 13, said Mr. Brown would be making a huge mistake if he followed Mr. Villaraigosa's advice.
''Since this organization exists to defend Prop 13, we do the gut check every couple of years, and every year it's the same thing,'' he said. ''If it were on the ballot today, it would pass by the same 66 percent margin that it did in 1978. Jerry knows that. Jerry's not stupid. He's a very bright guy. If he is going to go for tax increases, it's not going to be by messing with Proposition 13. He knows as well as everyone else knows that it's the third rail of California politics.''
Repealing or rolling back Proposition 13, which Mr. Brown's aides said he would not do, would be a politically explosive move and would require approval of the voters. But even going as far he intends -- Mr. Brown's realignment plan would take a big step toward addressing one of the ways Proposition 13 altered the fiscal landscape here -- illustrates the intensity of the state's fiscal woes and the drastic steps that the new governor believes are needed.
''The optimist in me thinks he is doing this as a way to open up the can of worms,'' said Joe Mathews, a co-author of ''California Crackup: How Reform Broke the Golden State and How We Can Fix It.'' ''This is the politically wisest and politically easiest way to unwind this monstrous system. Everyone likes local government.''
Mr. Brown's proposal to help communities pay for the programs by asking voters to extend the expiring taxes has stirred concern among local officials.
''The problem is, they're just extending for a year -- what's after that?'' Mr. Villaraigosa said. ''It's just another way of shifting the state's deficits onto cities, counties and school districts. I'm not against it, but the devil is going to be in the details.''
State legislators said there was virtually no chance of seeking to roll back the Proposition 13 property tax limitation on homeowners. But, they said, given the severity of the problem, there may be consideration of the two-tiered property tax system -- one for homeowners and a higher one for business property -- that Mr. Villaraigosa is suggesting.
''I'm always open to discussing things like this,'' said John A. Perez, a Democrat who is the Assembly speaker. ''But there's broad-based bipartisan support for maintaining individual protections for homeowners. No one has proposed taking away those protections or tweaking them for homeowners.''
Asked about commercial property, he said, ''That is where there has been some discussion, and I expect more of that.''
Darrell Steinberg, the president of the State Senate, applauded Mr. Brown for moving toward realigning the way state services are delivered, and in effect reversing what the state did in 1978.
''You can call it irony, or you can call it opportunity,'' Mr. Steinberg said. ''Look, I can picture myself in his shoes after Prop 13 passed. There was this great fear of libraries closing, of police and fire services being dramatically reduced. They had to respond. Obviously, in retrospect, that wasn't the correct response.''
Daniel Schnur, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, said he doubted anyone would take issue with that. ''It's hard to blame him for revisiting an issue 30 years after the decision,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown, at a budget briefing last month, will propose a fiscal rescue plan that is in effect an about-face from what he did the first time he was governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); HISTORY (53%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



236 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Some Good Signs Appear In Commercial Real Estate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a column for The Bay Citizen
The commercial property market is an interesting economic indicator, shedding light on the overall strength of a metro economy -- which segments are doing the best, and what is valued the most by job-creating businesses. The signals are mixed in the Bay Area, but they do suggest that a rebound is under way and that at least for this economic cycle, the perennial concerns that the region might be losing its edge in high-tech are unfounded.
In the South of Market district in San Francisco, the office rental market has tightened dramatically in the last six months, according to local real estate professionals, as fast-growing social media and Internet software companies snap up ''creative'' spaces. For all the talk about how technology enables people to work anywhere, many of these companies clearly find value in being within a few blocks of one another. 
''There are pockets right now where you can't get any space,'' said Steven Ring, city leader for client solutions at Cushman & Wakefield. Rents in the heart of SoMa are up about 8 percent since early last year, according to Meade Boutwell, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis, though they're still well below the peak reached in early 2008, before the global recession hit.
But so far, that strength has not bled over into traditional ''Class A'' high-rise space in the financial district, where rents and vacancy rates remain flat. Even brick-and-timber spaces in nearby neighborhoods like Jackson Square have yet to see much of a lift.
If the new Internet boom retains its momentum, however, service firms like law, accounting and human resources should begin absorbing some of that space. The overall vacancy rate in the city was down just a hair in the fourth quarter of 2010 from earlier in the year, to 15.5 percent, but lease rates were up for the third straight quarter.
Market watchers also point to Salesforce.com's recent purchase of 14 acres in the new Mission Bay development, south of SoMa and AT&T Park, as a sign of confidence. The software company plans to build a 2 million square foot headquarters campus there. Mr. Boutwell noted that tech companies now account for 30 percent of all tenant demand in the city.
In Silicon Valley, some similar dynamics are at play. Over all, the market for office space in San Mateo and Santa Clara counties has been in worse shape than the market in San Francisco. The vacancy rate in downtown San Jose, for example, is over 20 percent, and there is a glut of large vacant research and development facilities across the Valley.
But there are also hot spots. Facebook is reported to be acquiring the former Sun Microsystems campus in Menlo Park to accommodate its dramatic expansion. Apple has bought another old Hewlett-Packard facility in Cupertino. In Palo Alto, considered the most attractive office location in the Valley, vacancy rates are also dropping, thanks largely to the Internet business.
''There has been a turn this year in the commercial market,'' said Doug Henton, chief executive of Collaborative Economics in San Mateo. He attributes it to the continued growth of giants like Google and Apple on the one hand, and a growing class of ''microenterprises'' on the other.
The East Bay is not benefiting from any tech-driven pockets of strength, according to Edward Del Beccaro, a managing director at Grubb & Ellis, and in fact is suffering from the contraction of some government entities. Nonetheless, he said his firm was hiring in anticipation of a recovery in the second half of this year -- driven largely by a general economic resurgence and accompanying growth in employment.
Judging by the commercial real estate market, the biggest risk to the Bay Area economy is not that high-tech companies will move to cheaper locations; while some manufacturing activities may continue to migrate, in the Internet business, there is a huge incentive to follow the software talent and to be in close proximity to business partners and financiers. Rather, the question for the moment is whether the regional economy is too much of a one-legged stool, and vulnerable to any ebb in the social media and mobile computing tide.
If the technology business remains strong, the recovery in commercial real estate -- and the economy in general -- should continue apace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); CITIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); CRM (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



237 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 2488 words

HEADLINE: The Legislature Comes to Town, With Drama and Debate

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY, ELISE HU; JULIAN AGULARL; MATT STILES; BRANDI GRISSOM; EMILY RAWSHY; REEVE HAMILTON; MORGAN SMITH;and KATE GALBRATH

 BODY:
The 82nd Texas Legislature convenes in Austin this week, and while it's not as much fun as the circus -- usually -- it's more important and does have its share of comedy and drama.
The subject matter is practically operatic: in the 140 days of their regular session, lawmakers must face down a multibillion-dollar shortfall, having made blanket promises not to raise taxes. They need to draw redistricting maps for seats in Congress, the Legislature and the State Board of Education -- their most partisan enterprise of the decade.
Expect a heated word or two over immigration legislation and border security, threats of major cuts to education and health and human services, and continuing struggles to keep up with the state's transportation and criminal-justice concerns. Here's a look at some key issues coming up while the Legislature is in town.
Budget 
The bane of everyone who feared story problems in math class, the budget is the central policy blueprint for the state government. And it's deeply out of whack, with the state committed to more programs than the Legislature can finance. The size of that shortfall is estimated at $15 billion to $28 billion; the real number will be known Monday when Comptroller Susan Combs issues her revenue estimate and lawmakers unveil their starting budget proposal.
The numbers are stark: cutting everything except education and health and human services -- everything -- would trim a fraction of the shortfall. Local school districts could be forced to raise property taxes to cover costs if the state makes deep cuts in education; municipalities might also be able to reduce cuts in services and staff by raising their own local property taxes.
Lawmakers have just a few options: raise taxes, find other revenue, use the Rainy Day Fund (expected to be at least $8 billion), cut spending, shift costs to local governments or to the private sector, or use financial tricks.
Most of the state's officeholders campaigned on promises not to raise taxes. Raising fees for various licenses and other state services is possible, but iffy. There's talk of legalizing gambling to increase state income.
Using the Rainy Day Fund requires the approval of two-thirds of the Legislature. Financial tricks -- like delaying payments until the next budget -- are good for about $3 billion. Some state leaders want to preserve some of the state's savings in case the budget after this one is grim, too.
WHO TO WATCH Steve Ogden, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Jim Pitts, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, the head writers of the state's spending plan. ROSS RAMSEY
Federalism/Tea Party
To this point, most talk about states' rights has been just that -- talk. But Texas is pushing back against the federal government in substantive ways, too: There's legal action under way over environmental regulation (whether the Environmental Protection Agency or the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality should have supremacy here).
Lawmakers are talking seriously about backing out of the federal Medicaid program. Some want the federal government to give states more leeway with programs financed in part by the federal government. Texas and other states have talked about petitioning to change the 14th Amendment's provision of automatic citizenship for babies born in the United States to parents who aren't citizens.
The governor has been promoting his book, ''Fed Up!,'' focused on what he sees as an overreaching federal government, and he will be sworn in for a new term on Jan. 18, presumably to put some of his words into action.
This is also the Tea Party's first legislative session, and the combination of people it has helped elect and its ability to spur the people inside the Capitol with phone calls and letters and social media is about to be tested.
WHO TO WATCH Representative Wayne Christian, Republican of Center, and head of the Texas Conservative Coalition; and Senator Dan Patrick, Republican of Houston, founder of the new legislative Tea Party Caucus. ROSS RAMSEY
Speaker's Race
The 2011 session's first order of business is the selection of House speaker, arguably the most powerful political post in Texas. Joe Straus of San Antonio, the Republican incumbent, is trying to keep his job amid challenges from outside grass-roots groups and socially conservative Republicans who take issue with his selection of some Democrats as committee chairmen last session, as well as his past support of groups favoring abortion rights.
His challengers smell opportunity: the election of dozens of freshmen -- many of them further to the right than their predecessors -- potentially gives Mr. Straus's opponents new allies.
Warren Chisum, Republican of Pampa and a conservative, and Ken Paxton, Republican of McKinney, also want the job. Mr. Paxton has promised to use the new Republican supermajority in the House to ''honestly advance conservative principles and not simply protect the status quo.'' He has won the support of the Young Conservatives of Texas, the Republican Liberty Caucus and Dick Armey, the former majority leader of the United States House and a highly visible Tea Party booster.
Mr. Chisum's candidacy isn't generating much excitement. Beverly Woolley, Republican of Houston, who led the powerful Calendars Committee under Mr. Straus's immediate predecessor, Tom Craddick, took an important public stand in this largely insider struggle when she threw her support to Mr. Straus in December. It was a signal that Mr. Straus's challengers probably won't win the support of conservative veteran members. But politics being unpredictable, Mr. Straus won't be on solid ground until after Tuesday's floor vote.
WHO TO WATCH Freshman members. A handful of new lawmakers have thrown their support behind Mr. Straus's challengers. They'll either gain clout or give it up -- depending on whether they've made the right bet. ELISE HU
Immigration
Representative Debbie Riddle, a conservative Republican from Tomball, did not wait long after the midterm elections to file immigration-related legislation. Ms. Riddle camped out in the Capitol for 36 hours to be the first to file a bill that would stop the flow of state money to any local government that provided ''sanctuary'' -- i.e., a city that does not allow its police officers to enforce federal immigration laws -- to illegal immigrants.
Ms. Riddle told reporters that her willingness to spend the night in the Capitol showed she had ''tenacity and fire in the belly'' on the issue.
Many of her colleagues share Ms. Riddle's fervor. Several followed suit and filed bills -- more than 40 -- that, if passed, would significantly increase the state's involvement with immigration enforcement. The proposed legislation would, among other things, prohibit any state agency from printing signs or documents in any language other than English, and require the police to ask people stopped without proper ID if they are in the country legally.
Last week, a coalition of civil rights groups, business leaders and law enforcement warned that the proposed legislation would create an antibusiness climate in Texas and divert strained law enforcement resources.
Whether the new measures, if passed, would survive legal scrutiny is another question. Arizona's immigration legislation is tied up in federal court, which has temporarily halted enforcement of some of its major provisions.
WHO TO WATCH The always-colorful Ms. Riddle, of course. JULIAN AGUILAR
Redistricting
Texas picks up four seats, for a total of 36, in the United States House of Representatives, thanks to its population growth relative to the other states, but determining the boundaries of the new districts won't be easy. Members of Congress and their staff members will be spending lots of time in Austin.
Expect cajoling, jawboning, arm-twisting -- whatever it takes (including the occasional lavish display of flattery) as lawmakers seek to protect their own seats and damage their opponents'. The new districts go where the people are -- each must contain about 700,000 people -- so it's likely that the Dallas and Houston suburbs will gain a seat each, and the Rio Grande Valley at least one.
State lawmakers must also redraw their own districts (150 in the House and 31 in the Senate), which must contain equal populations and be drawn with minority populations in mind. Though the Republicans have a supermajority in the House, it will still be tough for them to draw enough safe G.O.P. districts to protect all of their members from competitive elections in 2012. But they could also try to dilute Democrats' strength by creating more swing districts.
State lawmakers must approve the maps, as with any other legislation. If they can't agree on their own seats, the five-member Legislative Redistricting Board, composed of the lieutenant governor and other statewide elected officials, will decide. It's possible that a special session in the summer will be required to finish drawing Congressional seats. Then come the legal challenges.
WHO TO WATCH Attorney General Greg Abbott, who will have to defend the maps in any court challenges. MATT STILES
Criminal Justice
Criminal-justice advocates, both liberal and conservative, agree that the biggest cost savings would come from shuttering some of the facilities that house adult and juvenile offenders. But it's not an easy proposition to accomplish.
The Texas Youth Commission has said the only way it could slash its budget enough is to close two more facilities beyond the five it has closed since 2007. There were more than 900 empty beds in its 10 facilities in October. The commission estimates that each facility it closes would mean 230 lost jobs. In some small towns that have youth prisons, that would be a major economic blow that could create major political fallout.
As for adult prisons, Texas has never closed one. The prisoner population, however, dropped by more than 1,000 from the 2008 fiscal year to the 2009 one. Still, the department said it needed all of the bed space it had.
Of course, the keys to keeping adults and juveniles alike out of prison in the first place, advocates of reform say, are the changes Texas made in specialty programs to provide more treatment for addicts and mentally ill offenders. Lawmakers, they say, should resist cutting those programs.
Lawmakers will also have to deal with the continuing problem of wrongful convictions and the need to debate over the use of faulty evidence.
WHO TO WATCH Scott Henson, a very knowledgeable blogger, who writes about all things criminal justice at gritsforbreakfast.blogspot.com. BRANDI GRISSOM
Health and Social Services
Expect ample political bluster -- and devastating cuts. The Republican majority will continue to attack the federal health care overhaul and do everything legislatively it can to resist it.
Lawmakers will also file bills and resolutions seeking federal waivers to redesign how Medicaid is administered, or they could try to drop out of the program. At an annual cost to the state of $10 billion, Medicaid is the single biggest health-related item on the budget.
At the very least, legislators will most likely take aim at the rates at which Medicaid health care providers are reimbursed and expand Medicaid managed-care into the Rio Grande Valley and rural Texas.
Other anticipated legislation? An effort to lift Texas' ban on hospitals directly employing doctors, and a move to expand the scope of practice for nurse practitioners.
In social services, expect cuts in community-based care for people with disabilities -- the state's big institutional care facilities are largely protected under a federal Justice Department settlement. Cutbacks in community-based care for the elderly are also possible. A redesign of the state's foster-care system is in the works, but lawmakers will be hard-pressed to approve anything that requires more money.
WHO TO WATCH Tom Suehs, commissioner of health and human services, is trusted on both sides of the aisle and is a straight-shooter on budget cuts and Medicaid's merits and shortcomings. EMILY RAMSHAW
Education
In a session in which any new policy proposal with a price tag is probably dead on arrival, the most significant changes in public education could come in existing programs. To ease the burden of cuts in financing, lawmakers could relax state rules and regulations that create costs that local school districts must bear on their own or with limited help from the state.
The most controversial proposal? Removing the requirement of a 22-to-1 student-to-teacher ratio in kindergarten through fourth grade. Legislators have also promised a new school finance bill overhauling the current long-contested mechanism.
Colleges and universities are particularly vulnerable. Last year, when the state reduced the current biennium budget by 5 percent, more than 40 percent of the cuts came out of higher education. Deeper cuts loom, but even as the money disappears, institutions are under pressure to improve graduation rates.
Policy makers will consider tying state money to graduation rates instead of enrollment in order to create greater incentives for improvement. They could also raise eligibility standards for the state's largest financial aid program, which could also be slashed.
WHO TO WATCH The chair of the appropriations subcommittee on education. For now, that's Scott Hochberg, Democrat of Houston, but this is a leadership position Republicans could grab.
REEVE HAMILTON and MORGAN SMITH
Energy
In the 2009 session, dozens of bills to foster the use of solar power died. Some are being introduced again this year, and they're a priority of environmentalists.
Pro-solar action could take one of two forms: a mandate for electric companies to utilize renewable energy sources other than wind (which got its start from a mandate and has thrived) or a rebate program, specifically for solar, intended for residents and businesses. With the economic recovery still tenuous, both will face obstacles.
The Sunset Advisory Commission, which looks for waste in state agencies, will review oil and gas and electricity regulators, keeping the energy sector in the spotlight.
The hottest item may be the structure of the Railroad Commission, which oversees the oil and gas industry in Texas. Will its name be changed to something more apt -- like the Texas Oil and Gas Commission? And will its structure, headed by three elected commissioners, be altered?
The sunset panel's review of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, the state's environmental agency, will also be closely watched.
Texas lawmakers may also choose to dive into the regulatory fight between the state and the Environmental Protection Agency, with legislation that backs the state's permitting system and rebuffs the federal agency.
WHO TO WATCH Troy Fraser, Republican of Horseshoe Bay, the new chairman of the Senate Committee on Natural Resources and a solar-rebate advocate. KATE GALBRAITH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Texas Capitol awaits the start of the legislative session. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
 ILLUSTRATIONS BY BENJAMIN HASSON) GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); WRITERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



238 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: $2.6 Billion to Cover Bad Loans: It's a Start

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
BANK investors cheered the announcement last week that Bank of America would pay $2.6 billion to buy back mortgages it had improperly sold during the housing bubble to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the beleaguered mortgage finance giants. It seemed a sweet deal for the bank, whose Countrywide Home Loans unit had peddled tens of billions of dollars in risky loans to the taxpayer-owned companies.
While it is unfortunate that the Bank of America deal won't recoup much for taxpayers, the resolution could have one important benefit. It might just open the door to a much-needed reckoning of the liabilities created by questionable mortgage practices at the nation's largest banks. These institutions have not yet made a full and realistic accounting of their liabilities.
It seems clear, after all, that Bank of America will not be the only institution forced to buy back billions of dollars' worth of loans because it did not meet the lending standards promised to buyers. Costs associated with foreclosure improprieties that have come to light in courts across the country -- robosigners, forged legal documents -- are also likely to be substantial. 
But you'll find precious little clarity on these liabilities in the financial statements of Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. The amounts that these banks, the nation's four largest, have reserved for possible mortgage repurchases -- about $10 billion as of the third quarter of 2010 -- is microscopic when compared with the more than $5 trillion in mortgage securities issued from 2005 through 2007.
For some investors, this is the accounting equivalent of whistling past the graveyard. And they are demanding that the audit committees of the banks' boards step up their scrutiny of these institutions' practices.
Last Thursday, officials overseeing 11 large public pension funds that own shares in the big four banks sent a letter to the directors who head each board's audit committee. The investors are asking that the audit committees conduct in-depth and independent reviews of all the internal controls related to the banks' mortgage operations.
Once the review has been completed -- by a different accounting firm from the one currently signing off on the bank's books -- the investors want the audit committees to report their findings to shareholders.
John C. Liu, the New York City comptroller and overseer of five city pension funds, instigated the campaign to focus the banks' audit committees on mortgage problems. ''There is a fundamental problem in the banks' procedures that endangers not just homeowners, but shareholders, and local economies,'' he said in a statement on Thursday. ''Given the risks involved, only a swift and unbiased audit can reassure shareholders that the pension funds of 700,000 working and retired New Yorkers are in safe hands.''
Joining him in signing the letters were the heads of the Connecticut Retirement Plans, the Illinois State Board of Investment and its State Universities Retirement System, the North Carolina Retirement System, the Oregon State Treasury and the New York State Common Retirement Fund. Together, the funds own $5.6 billion of stock in the top four banks and oversee $430 billion in assets.
THE New York City pension funds have also put forward a shareholder proposal asking for an independent audit of the top four banks' mortgage operations. Mr. Liu hopes that the proposal will be put to a stockholder vote at the banks' annual meetings this year.
It is unclear whether the proposal will be subject to such a vote. Citigroup doesn't want it considered and has already asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow it to exclude the proposal from matters to be voted on at its coming meeting. The other banks will probably follow suit.
An official at JPMorgan Chase declined to comment on the shareholders' request for an independent audit of its mortgage operations. Officials at Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo said that they were reviewing the letter but that they had confidence in their internal controls and audit committees' vigilance. The Bank of America spokesman added that it had hired external auditors to review its foreclosure processes, which led it to enhance its practices.
But Robert L. Christensen, an authority on financial services accounting, says it is high time that investors -- and regulators, for that matter -- scrutinize the banks' auditing processes. ''I believe there is an avalanche of liabilities that has not been recorded in their reserves,'' Mr. Christensen said. ''They say it's not estimable, but the question is, are they really accounting for it properly and are regulators pushing them hard enough to do it?''
He thinks they haven't. Mr. Christensen, a certified public accountant who spent 24 years as an auditor at Arthur Andersen, is a senior adviser to Natoma Partners, a forensic accounting and litigation consulting firm. He says the banks have understated the liabilities for possible loan repurchases that they were supposed to have recorded in recent years.
Under accounting rules, when a bank sells a loan or a pool of them to investors, the gain on that sale is supposed to be reduced by an amount reflecting the possibility that some loans will have to be bought back later. These amounts are estimates.
It wasn't until 2009 that banks began to discuss in their filings the reserves they had set aside for these potential liabilities. Mr. Christensen said reserves should have been set aside much earlier, given that the banks selling these loans were in position to know that underwriting standards were slipping and that forced buybacks could rise.
''Where were these banks' internal controls?'' Mr. Christensen asked. ''Somebody inside knew that they were lowering their underwriting standards. They should have had processes that told them if these loans ever go bad, they will be put back because we are not meeting our representations and warranties.''
Banks are beginning to disclose more about their reserves in this area, but investors deserve far more, Mr. Christensen said. Regulators seem to agree. Last October, the S.E.C. sent letters to chief financial officers of public companies reminding them of their obligation to disclose the potential pitfalls in their mortgage operations. For example, the letter tells them to detail the risks associated with potentially higher loan repurchase requests and defects in the loan securitization process.
Mr. Christensen welcomes the regulatory interest, especially because the banks have set aside so little to repurchase loans sold to investors other than Fannie and Freddie. ''They still haven't taken any significant reserves for private-label deals, which were very large and probably contained lower-quality loans,'' he said.
For example, JPMorgan Chase said in its third-quarter 2010 filings that it had set aside $3.3 billion in reserves for potential loan repurchases. But most of this applies to the roughly $380 billion of loans sold to Fannie and Freddie from 2005 through 2008, the bank said. Reserves to cover any potential putbacks from purchasers of the $450 billion in private-label securitizations the bank sold during that period are unspecified. They are included in a bucket designated for litigation costs, which consisted of $5.2 billion in the third quarter.
The bank said that because repurchase demands from private-label buyers had been limited thus far, it is tough to estimate future requests. Analysts in JPMorgan Chase's own research unit published a report last fall stating that possible mortgage repurchase liabilities for the overall banking industry ranged from a best case of $20 billion to a worst case of $90 billion.
IT is unclear whether regulators or auditors will require the banks to increase reserves for the questionable loans they sold to private investors. The banks say investors will have a tough time proving the buybacks are warrented. Still, it is becoming more obvious by the day that these reserves are probably too low.
''There may be a reluctance to challenge the banks because of the overall fragility of the financial system,'' Mr. Christensen speculated. ''But I don't think it's a good thing to mix politics and accounting. That's not a legitimate reason not to enforce the rules.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Liu, New York City comptroller, wants banks to scrutinize lending practices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); AUDITS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (85%); FORECLOSURE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); NEW ISSUES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



239 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''If I could, I would stay here longterm, but it is not so easy.'' Maria Fransiska, who is from Indonesia and is working as a nurse in Japan. Despite facing an imminent labor shortage as its population ages, Japan has done little to open itself up to immigration, and it actively encourages foreign workers to return home. 
''We can no longer live in a society where the public employees are the haves and taxpayers who foot the bills are the have-nots.'' Scott Walker, Wisconsin's Republican governor. Faced with growing budget deficits and restive taxpayers, elected state officials are pushing new legislation to limit the power of labor unions.
''The time for tax reform and tax simplification is now. ''Nina Olson, the national tax advocate, who acts as an ombudswoman for the I.R.S. Ms. Olson found that the tax code had nearly tripled in size during the last decade -- to 3.8 million words in February 2010 from1.4 million in 2001.''We need collective patience.'' William C. Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business, as the latest unemployment numbers showed that the job market's recovery could be slow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX REFORM (87%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



240 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: After a Long Ascent, Turbulence for Bonds

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
WHEN the stock market plummeted in 2008, investors began to pour money into bond mutual funds, which generally performed quite well -- at least until this past December.
In that month, taxable bond funds lost an average 0.6 percent, according to Morningstar, compared with an average total return of 7.7 percent for all of 2010. In contrast, stock funds gained 5.9 percent in December, and had an average return of 17.8 percent for the year.
Faced with the prospect of losses, many investors moved quickly. In the first week of December, there were net outflows of $403 million from taxable bond funds, followed by $3.77 billion the next week, according to the Investment Company Institute. 
Were the sellers responding nimbly to a drop in share prices, or were they overreacting? And should bonds remain a significant part of a diversified portfolio? There are no quick, simple answers to these questions, but three analysts discussed their views.
Miriam Sjoblom, Morningstar's lead bond fund analyst, said interest rates could well rise, making this year ''a turbulent one for bond investors.'' People who ''own bond funds as part of a long-term asset-allocation scheme should still get the benefit of diversification relative to stocks that bonds offer,'' she said, ''so I see no reason for them to throw that plan out the window.''
She warned, however, that investors should not ''expect to see the same ebullient returns they got from their bond portfolios for much of the past two years,'' or even the past 20 years.
Not surprisingly, the strongest returns in the past year were achieved by high-yield bond funds, known colloquially as junk -- and that is the sector that is most vulnerable to the risk of default.
Jason T. Thomas, chief investment officer at Aspiriant, a wealth management firm with offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles, said that some high-yield shareholders were ''being lulled to sleep.'' Default rates have been artificially low in recent months, he added, because of ''the very easy terms of much of the lending from 2005 through 2007 and banks that extend and pretend,'' rather than foreclosing on loans. Such banks hope that the economy will strengthen and that the loans will eventually be repaid, he said, but ''the default rate could change rapidly if the economy slows even modestly.''
Mr. Thomas also had this warning for investors: Don't overlook the risk of settling for after-tax yields that are below the level of inflation. At the end of November, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported, the Consumer Price Index was up at an annual rate of 1.1 percent. That is very low by historical standards, but many economists expect the pace to pick up if the economy continues to recover. ''A bond or bond fund that is yielding less than inflation is locking in a decline in purchasing power -- a negative real return,'' he said.
For taxable accounts, he said, he favored the Pimco Total Return fund, the world's largest mutual fund, with some $250 billion in assets. It ''has extremely broad capabilities and is looking for opportunities as diverse as mortgages, emerging-markets debt and municipal bonds,'' he said. Pimco recently raised its 2011 forecast for United States economic growth by a full percentage point, to 3 to 3.5 percent.
The fund's long-term outperformance ''has been lumpy, with long periods of mediocre performance,'' Mr. Thomas said. Because of that unevenness, he advised, ''Don't plan to trade in and out of this fund.''
Pimco, a unit of Allianz, the German insurer, is based in Newport Beach, Calif.
The fund had net outflows in November, according to Morningstar, its first in two years. And it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in December to allow investments of up to 10 percent of assets in equity-linked securities, including preferred stock and convertible bonds, but not common stock, as early as April. William H. Gross, the fund's manager and Pimco's co-chief investment officer, has not disclosed the fund's specific plans.
As an alternative to money market funds, which are now paying minimal yields, Mr. Thomas said he favored an exchange-traded fund, iShares Barclays 1-3 Year Credit Bond. It is broadly diversified, and although its credit rating is triple-B, he said he considered the yield, 2.48 percent, enough compensation for the credit risk.
MICHAEL STOLPER, head of Stolper & Company, an investment manager in San Diego, said that because the economy was ''in the early stages of a recovery,'' he favored good-quality, corporate bond funds like the Vanguard Intermediate-Term Investment-Grade fund as a counterweight to equities and to provide reasonable returns. That fund had a yield of 4.67 percent.
He also uses taxable bond funds from Payden & Rygel and T. Rowe Price. For most individual investors, traditional no-load mutual funds offer more clarity than exchange-traded funds, he said.
At current yields, he said, there may be no great alternatives. ''You hope for the least offensive choice,'' he said. ''The returns aren't wonderful, but they're tolerable,'' and, if you're careful, they are still relatively safe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BOND FUNDS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



241 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Gauging Those Tremors in Municipal Bonds

BYLINE: By CARLA FRIED

 BODY:
MARILYN COHEN, the founder of Envision Capital Management, manages $300 million in bond portfolios for individual investors. Since early November, she says, she has also taken on the job of running ''the municipal bond equivalent of the Butterball turkey hot line,'' fielding calls from investors worried how to handle the sharp fourth quarter sell-off in municipal bonds.
From Nov. 5 to Nov. 17, the Barclays Capital municipal bond index fell 3.4 percent. A subsequent two-week rally recaptured about a third of that loss, but a second leg down, from Dec. 6 to Dec. 15, shaved an additional 2.5 percent from the index. All told, that benchmark muni index lost 4 percent in the fourth quarter, nearly a year's worth of income yield for an intermediate-term, high-grade tax-exempt bond fund.
Ms. Cohen says municipal bond investors should buckle in for more volatility in 2011. ''Long-term we have a lot to worry about,'' she says, referring to the growing concern over whether some states and municipalities, short on cash, will be able to make timely interest payments on their bonds. 
Municipal bond experts agree that there will be a rising number of muni bond defaults in coming years, but most say they expect that the scope and impact will be limited.
''The prognosis for an avalanche of defaults is way over the top,'' says Hugh McGuirk, who oversees municipal bond funds at T. Rowe Price.
Jamie Pagliocco, lead manager of the Fidelity Municipal Income fund and director of Fidelity's muni bond portfolio managers, concurs. ''We don't expect a wave of defaults,'' he says.
In fact, Pamela Tynan, manager of the Vanguard Short-Term Tax-Exempt fund, says the cause of the recent sell-off in the municipal bond market has been ''a near perfect storm'' of events that ''had nothing to do with credit issues.''
The European sovereign debt crisis reared up again in the early fall, as Ireland's fiscal woes came to a head. That set off a new round of hand-wringing concern that states with extreme budget shortfalls -- like California, Illinois and New Jersey -- might be atop a list of the next ''sovereigns'' that won't be able to keep up with debt payments. But bond managers say the comparison is faulty, and attribute the recent volatility to other factors.
For starters, Treasury rates began to creep up in the fall, taking municipal bond yields along for the ride. Mr. McGuirk notes that the interest rate on AAA-rated 30-year municipal debt rose to 4.9 percent in December from 3.7 percent in September. In the world of bonds, when yields rise, prices drop.
Then came the tax-bill compromise engineered by President Obama, which is conspicuous for two exclusions that are expected to affect municipal bond supply and demand next year and beyond.
On the supply side, the Build America Bonds program was not extended past its Dec. 31, 2010, expiration. Under the program, which was part of the February 2009 economic stimulus bill, the federal government agreed to pay 35 percent of the interest cost on taxable bonds issued by states and cities. The program shifted a sizable portion of new municipal debt -- an estimated $185 billion -- into the taxable market from early 2009 to the end of 2010. Issuers will now have to return to the traditional tax-exempt market to raise capital, increasing municipal bond supply.
The tax bill also left individual income tax rates unchanged for all Americans through 2012. That was a minor blow to the municipal market, which was anticipating an increase in demand if the marginal tax brackets for higher-income households had been allowed to rise in 2011.
THOSE pressures, combined with the specter of rising interest rates, are expected to add to volatility in 2011. And no one is dismissing the disruption that may come if some municipal bond issuers default on their payments.
''The number of defaults is likely to increase,'' says Rob Williams, director of income planning for the Schwab Center for Financial Research. But he says he is not anticipating a systemic Armageddon. ''The default rate won't be zero,'' Mr. Williams says, ''but it isn't going to be significantly higher than what we've seen historically.''
According to Moody's Investors Service, 54 of 18,400 rated municipal bonds defaulted from 1970 to the end of 2009, or a minuscule 0.3 percent. Meredith Whitney, the market analyst who has recently focused her firm's attention on the municipal market, recently said on ''60 Minutes'' that she believes we could see twice as many defaults in just the next few years.
Mr. Pagliocco at Fidelity says he's not trying to ''sugar coat'' the seriousness of the deficit issues confronting state and local governments, but he says he does not expect inordinate trouble. He also says it is helpful to put the magnitude of state and municipality fiscal stress in context.
As an example, Mr. Pagliocco says California's current debt as a percent of its gross state product -- ''what bond geeks pay attention to,'' he adds -- is about 5 percent.
''You can't compare that with the 70 percent ratio for our federal debt-to-G.D.P. or the 100 percent or higher ratio for some European sovereigns,'' he says.
A November municipal bond report from Fitch Ratings, titled ''More Sparks Than Fire,'' builds on that point by noting that because the cost of paying debt is a relatively small part of a state's or a municipality's budget, defaulting on that payment doesn't do much to solve the bigger deficit issues.
Ms. Tynan at Vanguard adds that default is ''an option of last resort that is arduous, and any entity that wants ongoing access to capital markets is not going to want to take this step.''
Amy R. Laskey, a municipal bond analyst at Fitch Ratings, points out that even if the municipal bond default rate were to triple -- and she says she isn't making any such prediction -- it would still be below 1 percent. Because most defaults historically have occurred in unrated securities of one-time issuers -- mostly in the housing and health care sectors -- one way to protect a portfolio is to focus on investment-grade bonds of well-established issuers.
Harold Evensky, a financial adviser in Coral Gables, Fla., uses diversified mutual funds for his clients.
''That diversification and the fact that there is a bench of analysts doing the credit work is especially important right now,'' Mr. Evensky says.
He acknowledges that if disturbing headlines cause investors to hit the ''sell'' button, funds could face a wave of redemptions that would require them to sell bonds in a falling market.
Mr. Evensky says his strategy is to stick with mutual fund companies ''that don't attract hot money and don't have exciting managers.'' He uses Vanguard funds for its short-term bond holdings, Thornburg funds for intermediate-term issues and T. Rowe Price for long-term municipal bond holdings.
Mr. Evensky has also reduced his exposure to losses from rising interest rates by lowering his target duration for client bond portfolios to about 3.5 years, from about 4.5 years in 2008.
MS. COHEN says she currently prefers owning individual issues rather than shares of mutual funds. In a rising rate environment, she likes the fixed maturity date of individual bonds, and wants to avoid the possibility of being caught in the wave of mutual fund redemptions if sentiment turns more bearish. She is also focused on high-quality, shorter-term bonds.
And she advises that, for now at least, investors play down the standard advice that general obligation issues -- backed by the taxing authority of the issuer -- are the safe sweet spot for conservative muni bonds. General revenue bonds may now be the safer place, considering that municipalities' tax receipts -- used to pay back general obligation bonds -- -- are still recovering from the recession. And the once-sacrosanct pledge to raise taxes, if ever necessary, to fulfill the payback seems a bit shakier in today's fiscal environment.
Revenue bonds tied to essential public services -- like water and sewer operations -- may be among the most solid because payments for these services, which in turn are used to make the bond's interest payments, endure no matter the economic climate.
''I would rather own an essential revenue bond of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power than a Los Angeles city general obligation bond,'' Ms. Cohen says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An inlet of the Los Angeles Reservoir. Municipalities' revenue bonds tied to essentials like water may be among the most solid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EURO CRISIS (66%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (61%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



242 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Make It Relevant, but Make It

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
LIKE other choreographers awarded grants through the Jerome Robbins Foundation's New Essential Works Program, Jodi Melnick never applied. And like the others, she received the news out of the blue, delivered in the form of a call -- in her case on Skype -- by the program's ebullient director, Damian Woetzel.
''I was like, 'Are you kidding me?' '' Ms. Melnick said. ''I really didn't believe it. So I'm getting this grant money -- it's $10,000 -- and listen to this: If I want to work with other dancers, I could probably get another five and if I want to work with a bigger group, I could probably get more than that and then get a matching grant.'' 
She laughed in gleeful disbelief. Even though Ms. Melnick focuses on the solo form and is not planning to create a spectacle ''with big overhead,'' as she put it, having the option to do so is rare. New Essential Works, which finances the development of new dances, was created by the Jerome Robbins Foundation in the fall of 2009 in response to the financial crisis. Allen Greenberg and Daniel Stern, a trustees at the foundation, and Christopher Pennington, its executive director, were concerned about the prospect of a lost period of choreography.
Many of the grants pair a choreographer with a dance company, but Ms. Melnick's award was the first to sponsor an individual choreographer without a specific project in mind. So far most awards have benefited struggling ballet companies and choreographers whose work might otherwise have fallen through the cracks.
The program provides about $250,000 a year with grants generally ranging from $10,000 to $35,000. Eleven grants have been awarded, with at least five pending. (In 2010 the Jerome Robbins Foundation gave away about $1.8 million.)
Mr. Woetzel makes decisions about grants with Mr. Greenberg, Mr. Pennington and Mr. Stern. ''Some of this is about companies in need,'' Mr. Woetzel said. ''Some of it is about choreographers who perhaps need more work or it would be nice to see taking a step forward that otherwise they might not be able to take.''
This year New Essential Works will collaborate with Yaddo to recommend candidates for choreographic residencies. One word that Mr. Woetzel continually returns to in describing the program is relevance. ''That's what is so wonderful about the New program,'' he said. ''It is about filling a need. It is about everything, from economics to art, and it's about today, so that's great. It's not based on the high-mindedness of 'this is the utopic way things should be.' ''
Mr. Woetzel, a former principal with New York City Ballet, isn't the type to wait around for things to happen. As the artistic director of the Vail International Dance Festival and a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, he has connections and is often able to finagle matching grants. Mr. Woetzel's networking efforts, frequently in tandem with the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Knight Foundation, generally benefit smaller ballet companies outside New York.
The first sponsored work, Matthew Neenan's ''At the Border,'' choreographed for the Pennsylvania Ballet, will also be performed by Nevada Ballet Theater in March. Jessica Lang's ''Solo in Nine Parts,'' created for Kansas City Ballet, will be shown at Eugene Ballet and Alaska Dance Theater in April.
In the case of Oregon Ballet Theater, which presented a new work by Emery LeCrone in April, Christopher Stowell, the company's artistic director, was impressed by the program's immediacy.
''It's the kind of thing that can sometimes take three years to develop,'' he said. ''This happened very fast. We didn't have a brand new work in the season for the first time in many years, and they wanted to make a difference. One thing that was interesting is that they would only fund something that we would add to that season.''
At Sacramento Ballet the choreographer Brian Reeder presented ''Market Crash'' in April. The work, set to a score by Eric Moe, explores the notion of panic and anxiety and will be done by the company again in May. ''It wasn't like, 'We need for you to make an opener or a closer for us,' '' Mr. Reeder said. ''It was more, 'Make what you want.' I felt very free and open, and that's not always the case.''
New Essential Works also has a partnership with the Baryshnikov Arts Center, where, during the fall, three contemporary choreographers -- Stefanie Batten Bland, John Heginbotham and Elena Demyanenko, all chosen by Mikhail Baryshnikov -- were granted five-week residencies and $10,000 each. The center's executive director, Stanford Makishi, said the center also provided technical and administrative support.
''The goal was very much in the spirit of what the New Essential Works program was doing with regional ballet companies,'' he said. ''We wanted to potentially lift the careers of these people.''
The center hosted several showings of the choreographers' work throughout the fall. On Sunday afternoon they will present dances created during their residencies as part of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters showcase. This year the residency program will focus on Broadway dance.
''The chance to work on Broadway choreography as opposed to having to deliver Broadway choreography can be two distinct things,'' Mr. Woetzel said. ''I think there's a role to be played in the idea of: What is a Broadway choreographer today? How do you become a Broadway choreographer? What are the skill sets?''
In many ways Mr. Woetzel, armed with curiosity, is still developing his eye for choreographers.
''In ballet class Stanley Williams used to say, 'I don't see it,' and it was so frustrating because you wanted to say: 'That's a brise. I just did it.' ''
Mr. Woetzel said he experienced a similar sensation when watching dances. ''Is it blurry?'' he asked. ''Is it in focus? Has this been thought through? Does it make sense, or does it make sense that it doesn't make sense? I just want to have experiences that matter in the theater.
''There's a part of me that just loves dancing,'' he continued. ''I could sit and watch the Nicholas Brothers all night, happily, on one level, but then I'm also dying to see Jodi just stand there and move her arm over the course of 20 minutes. There are no rules.''
Correction: January 16, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A dance article last Sunday about grants awarded by the Jerome Robbins Foundation's New Essential Works Program misstated part of the name of a dance company in the Northwest. It is Oregon Ballet Theater, not Oregon Dance Theater.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Lesley Garrison with, from left, McKay Montz, Brian Lawson and Kevin Ferguson, rehearsing a dance by John Heginbotham. Above, Damian Woetzel with Jodi Melnick. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); DANCE (89%); CHARITIES (78%); DANCERS (78%); BALLET (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



243 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2180 words

HEADLINE: The New College Credential The Newest College Credential

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH. 
Motoko Rich is a reporter covering the job market for the business section of The Times.

 BODY:
EDUCATION, students are frequently told, is the key to a better job. First, finish high school. Then, go to college and get a degree. For those with higher aspirations, try for a master's.
But increasingly, there is another way. Short vocational programs leading to a certificate are becoming the kudzu of the educational world. There's a program for virtually any skill, from interior design to paralegal to managing records at a doctor's office. Instead of investing in a master's, professionals itching to move up the career ladder can earn certificates in marketing strategies, credit analysis or even journalism.
In an economy that increasingly rewards specialization, more and more institutions -- from the ones that advertise on late-night cable to the most elite of universities -- are offering these programs, typically a package of five or six courses, for credit or not, taken over three to 18 months. Some cost a few thousand dollars, others tens of thousands.
Are they worth the paper they're printed on? 
Not always.
Christopher Williams was looking to train for a new career when he walked into a trade school near his home in Murrieta, Calif., two years ago. At Career Colleges of America, he says, a recruiter told him a certificate program in ultrasound technology would prepare him for a job in less than 18 months. Mr. Williams, now 25, signed up and graduated in December 2009, $28,000 in debt. Now he cannot get a job in the ultrasound field.
Stories like Mr. Williams's have prompted federal scrutiny of for-profit institutions, with a specific focus on whether graduates earn wages sufficient to cover their student loan debt. The Obama administration has proposed new rules, to be completed in the coming months, requiring that these schools better prepare students for ''gainful employment.'' Certificate programs at nonprofit institutions would also be subject to the rules.
Demand for certificates has intensified during the recent recession and its aftermath, especially among the least educated, who also suffer the highest unemployment rate. According to the Institute for College Access and Success, a nonprofit research group that seeks to make higher education more affordable, nearly two-thirds of credentials earned at for-profit colleges are certificates. The colleges awarded 345,000 certificates in 2008-9, a 25 percent increase in just four years, according to the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities, which represents 1,400 for-profit schools, among them Kaplan and DeVry.
Public community colleges, which offer many of the same kinds of programs as for-profits (usually at a fraction of the cost), are neck and neck in certificates awarded, with a 16 percent increase over four years. Private two- and four-year nonprofit colleges and universities have also stepped into the game, with about 6 percent of their undergraduate credentials now awarded as certificates rather than degrees.
The programs particularly appeal to the segment of the population that, for academic, personal or financial reasons, would struggle with a full degree's course load. That certificate programs generally take students out of the workforce for less time is an attractive feature for those who need to support a family.
In a report released last month, Complete College America, a nonprofit group, pushed for a national goal of doubling the number of certificates awarded over the next five years.
''Certificates can position graduates for immediate workforce success,'' the report states, ''while establishing solid foundations for future academic achievement.''
Although there is little data on how the credential enhances income, ''the preliminary work suggests that there is an economic value to the certificates,'' says David Bergeron, acting deputy director of the office of postsecondary education at the Department of Education. ''It's not as much as receiving an associate or bachelor's degree,'' he adds, ''but you do see some earnings bump for people with these certificates.''
According to a forthcoming report from the Center on Education and the Workforce at Georgetown University, a postsecondary certificate adds almost $117,000 in lifetime earnings (measured in 2004 dollars) over a high school diploma, particularly for those who have no other degrees. But although paraprofessionals like electrical technicians can make close to $40,000 a year with a certificate, the median earnings of all certificate holders is just under $25,000.
Repaying loans can be difficult on such an income.
Under the Department of Education's ''gainful employment'' rule, 35 percent of students would have to repay some principal on their federal loan in the first three years after leaving a certificate program or the school might lose some of its eligibility to dispense aid. Colleges could satisfy the rule if student debt burdens were low compared to their earnings.
Mr. Bergeron estimates that based on that threshold for debt repayment, 95 percent of all programs -- and 83 percent of those within for-profit trade schools -- would pass the test.
Still, more than half of students would not be repaying any owed principal within the first years.
''That's not a very robust metric,'' says Rafael I. Pardo, a professor at the University of Washington School of Law who specializes in educational debt and bankruptcy.
The for-profit educational lobby argues that, in fact, the criteria are too stiff and would hobble the industry because so many of its students depend on loans to attend. ''We're not talking about wealthy suburban kids trying to decide whether to go to Harvard, Yale or Stanford,'' says Harris N. Miller, president of the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities. ''We're talking about working adults who can't travel somewhere else to go to school. Community colleges are already bursting at the seams.''
If career colleges lose their federal loan eligibility, says Mr. Miller, many students will be effectively ''denied a choice.''
CHRISTOPHER WILLIAMS'S choice did not pan out. Now he has joined a lawsuit that contends that Career Colleges systemically misinforms potential students about prospects for employment. The suit says that students were told they would be prepared to pass an exam administered by the American Registry of Diagnostic Medical Sonography, a credential sought by many employers.
But because the certificate program is not accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs, which recognizes ultrasound technology training courses, graduates of C.C.A.'s program must work 12 months in the field before they are eligible to sit for the exam.
But as Mr. Williams and other plaintiffs have discovered, hospitals, clinics and physician's offices won't hire them until they pass the exam.
''I feel like I just wasted time,'' says Mr. Williams, who now works part time as a cashier at Old Navy. He was supposed to start paying back his loan in July, but has not yet made a payment.
Representatives of C.C.A. did not return calls or e-mails seeking comment.
Prospective students ''really need to do their homework before they sign on the dotted line and commit to thousands of dollars of debt,'' says M. LaCheeta McPherson, executive dean of health and legal studies at El Centro College in Dallas and president of an accrediting commission for health care fields.
Advocates for low-income students say that's easier said than done. ''It is very, very difficult to determine which one is accredited even when one is looking for it,'' says Pauline Abernathy, vice president at the Institute for College Access and Success. ''Particularly for students who are first-generation college-going, they don't know the questions to ask.''
This type of certificate, too, prepares students for fairly narrow careers, many of which are never likely to pay that much.
Bob Harvey, a consultant to physicians' offices who previously managed several family practices in Lawrence, Kan., says he often sees job applicants with certificates from medical assistant programs. Although the programs do a decent job of preparing students, he says, ''medical assistants don't make enough money to pay off their loans.'' Candidates, he says, ''need to be aware that they are not going to be stepping into a $40,000 or $50,000 job.'' Without further education, he says, ''you're never going to be paid what an R.N. is paid regardless of how long you're there.''
And some health care certificates offer little value, Mr. Harvey says, as employers can just train new entrants on the job. He advises not bothering with, say, a certificate program for medical office receptionists. Quoting Herbert D. Kelleher, the co-founder and chief executive of Southwest Airlines, Mr. Harvey says: ''I will hire attitude and I will teach the skills.''
Industry leaders say prospective students should hold realistic expectations. ''Talk to your boss or those who will be promoting you,'' says Beverly Malone, chief executive of the National League for Nursing. ''Ask them, 'If I get this certificate, will it make the difference?' ''
Many trade groups endorse particular programs. Employers reviewing resumes may look to see if an applicant has an industry-approved certificate. ''Any program that doesn't have that kind of evaluation attached to it or industry recognition would be of concern to me,'' says Emily DeRocco, president of the Manufacturing Institute, the education and research arm of the National Association of Manufacturers that endorses certificate programs in fields like welding, computerized machining and metalwork.
The American Bar Association also sets standards for certificate programs that train paralegals. ''Certificates with A.B.A. approval have been the gold standard for a long time,'' says Cathy S. Boette, director of paralegal services for Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough, a Columbia, S.C., law firm with offices in 12 cities.
The proliferation of paralegal certificate programs concerns Ms. Boette. ''There is not a lot of growth in the profession right now,'' she says. ''So it's kind of interesting that there are so many programs cropping up because I don't know who's going to employ all those people who are getting these certificates.'' According to the Department of Education, the number of people awarded certificates in the paralegal field grew to 4,061 in 2007-8 from 2,890 in 2003-4.
It is possible to get hired as a paralegal without a certificate, of course. In New York and other big cities, many law firms rotate through a changing cast of college graduates who are likely headed to law school. ''We basically hire Ivy League graduates who work for a couple of years,'' says Michael L. Ryan, a partner at the white-shoe firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton in New York. To the extent that the firm hires ''career'' paralegals, he says, it would look for degrees in library science or other research-related fields, not vocational certificates.
WHILE the bulk of certificate programs appeal to students with little or no postsecondary education, traditional colleges and universities -- lured by the prospects of extra revenue -- have devised certificate programs to attract those looking to burnish their resumes.
The subjects tackled cater to professionals who don't have the time, money or inclination to pursue a master's degree. Some programs require a bachelor's degree as prerequisite; others merely ask a candidate to register and write a check. Some programs allow credits to be applied toward a master's down the line.
So at Cornell University's online arm, eCornell, there are certificates in hiring and staffing or health care facilities design. The University of California, Berkeley, has programs in interior design and construction management. New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies offers certificates in 113 subjects as varied as forensic accounting, screenwriting and philanthropic fund-raising.
When asked about the fund-raising certificate, Kathleen Sack, senior director of talent development for the American Red Cross, sounds a lot like Mr. Harvey on health care certificates. ''Job experiences are most important,'' she says, adding: ''Having a certificate is nice, it shows interest. But it doesn't necessarily get a bigger shoe in the door.''
Still, certificates from elite institutions confer a bit of name-brand stardust on students.
Anne-Diandra Louarn, a 23-year-old native of Paris who graduated from N.Y.U.'s journalism certificate program in 2009, says it helped her secure a job at Le Figaro, where she reports for the Web site and manages the newspaper's Facebook and Twitter pages. She had no journalism experience, other than an internship at a small social media company in New York and a two-year degree in communications from Paris Descartes University.
At N.Y.U., she took seven classes, over two semesters, paying about $3,000 to complete her certificate. When applying for jobs, she says, the pedigree carried clout.
''Because N.Y.U. is a very well-known university,'' Ms. Louarn says, ''I know it helped me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (ED28)
 THE GRADUATE: Christopher Williams failed to land a job after earning a certificate in ultrasound technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (79%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PARALEGALS (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



244 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Doing What the Company Wants

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
My company now requires all employees to complete a self-directed training course on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, relevant to our overseas staff but not to my job. This training takes about four hours, time better spent on something more productive, and was not a condition of my employment. Until I transfer into a job that involves me with foreign officials or companies, am I ethically obligated to complete the training? J.H., BOSTON
It's not so much that you have an ethical obligation to take the training as you are obliged to avoid the misconduct of dodging it: you would have to deceive your boss, actively or passively. You would do better simply to tell your supervisors what you've told me. If you're right and they're reasonable -- bold assumptions -- then they would be foolish to ignore your ideas for improving productivity. 
They might, however, have designs invisible to you -- the ability to rapidly transfer employees into positions for which this training is essential, for example. Even if they have no such plans but are strictly adhering to a dimwitted policy, that does not permit you to ignore legitimate demands or lie about having done so. Your employer's inefficiency would not justify your deceit. Companies routinely waste time. (Unlike my taking a break to play Sudoku. And snack. And nap. Those things clear my head and improve my efficiency.)
Nor did the company err by failing to mention this training when it hired you. It must have some flexibility to introduce new practices. That does not put all such innovations beyond criticism; it does say that the lack of advanced notice does not of itself condemn such a change.
UPDATE: J.H. got the course materials. He did not read them but immediately took the online test, passed it and was certified as having mastered the course work. He said it was ''simplistic.''
I work for a social-services organization. A company in a distant state has been reporting wages to the government that it supposedly pays one of my clients, using her Social Security number. My client does not work for this company. I suspect that the person using her number might be a struggling illegal immigrant whose exposure could lead to deportation or worse. My client asked me to sort this out with that company, fearing future problems from identity theft. Should I? L.G., TACOMA, WASH.
Your client, apparently the victim of a crime, has asked you to protect her from what could be trouble down the road, including tax implications. How can you refuse? That the perpetrator may face economic hardship of his own -- not malicious, just trying to get by -- makes this a painful dilemma but is insufficient reason to decline your client's request.
The sad irony is that your client may actually benefit from this situation. Someone else's work is generating payments for her Social Security account. Although if she starts a new job or participates in government programs in your state, some official might -- will, we hope -- notice that she is simultaneously working in another state, suggesting either fraud or the ability to travel at hyperspeed, which, if the latter, could be the technological breakthrough America needs to be a country of robust innovation (not like that ridiculous Segway).
UPDATE: L.G. contacted the employer, which discovered that an employee was fraudulently using the Social Security number; the employee was fired.
E-MAIL queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number. PODCASTS of the Ethicist are available at NYTimes.com, iTunes and Yahoo.com.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); IDENTITY THEFT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (51%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



245 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Southern Sudan Feels Freedom Close at Hand

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Josh Kron contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JUBA, Sudan -- Philip Geng Nyuol started fighting for independence with his hands.
He eventually graduated to a machete, then Molotov cocktails, then a gun.
''I crossed rivers full of crocodiles,'' he said. ''And slept in camps in Congo. And ate wild fruits in the bush.''
That was nearly 50 years ago -- Mr. Nyuol was on the ground floor of southern Sudan's independence struggle, before the rebels even had proper weapons. The memories come flooding back to him, bright but patchy, like sun streaming through the trees.
After decades of war and more than two million lives lost, southern Sudan has arrived at the moment it has been yearning for, a referendum on independence. Polls opened on Sunday just after 8 a.m. local time. All signs point to the people here voting overwhelmingly for secession, and the largest country on the continent will then begin the delicate process of splitting in two. 
The United States government has played a pivotal role in bringing this moment to fruition, pushing the northern and southern Sudanese to sign a peace treaty in 2005 that set the referendum in motion. A proud, new African country is about to be born, but it will step onto the world stage with shaky legs. As it stands now, southern Sudan is one of the poorest places on earth.
Most people here scrape by on less than 75 cents a day. More than three-quarters of adults cannot read. Decades of civil war and marginalization have left the economy so crushed that just about everything is imported, down to eggs. According to Oxfam, a teenage girl has a higher chance of dying in childbirth than finishing elementary school.
Tens of thousands have flocked back to take part in the referendum, and some analysts, possibly reinforcing stereotypes of Africa as always teetering on the edge, warn south Sudan could be the next Somalia, awash in violence. Already, aid agencies are ringing the alarm about a lack of food, water, health care and sanitation.
''We have an unfolding humanitarian crisis, layered on top of an existing and forsaken one,'' said the International Rescue Committee, an American aid organization that works in Sudan.
But this is a land of shared sacrifice, and that may be a cohesive force that helps hold southern Sudan together. After all the years of guerrilla warfare and hardship, oppression and persecution at the hands of the Arabs who rule Sudan, people here are deeply invested in holding a peaceful referendum and building the world's newest nation.
''We are underdeveloped, yes, but we will do it,'' said Gideon Gatpan Thoar, the information minister of Unity State, near the north-south border.
United Nations officials here say something remarkable has already happened. In 2009, ethnic fighting swept the south, with several thousand people killed in military-grade attacks, fueled by longstanding ethnic rivalries and a sudden, suspicious increase in high-powered weaponry. Many southerners suspected that the government in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, was instigating the violence, just as it had in the past when Khartoum fomented a civil war within a civil war.
But in the past six months, there has been almost no major ethnic violence. One of the last holdouts, a renegade general who had been leading a revolt deep in the bush, recently agreed to a cease-fire. ''What we are seeing is a real effort for reconciliation,'' said a United Nations official in Juba, who was not authorized to speak to the news media and spoke anonymously. ''All eyes are on the referendum. They're all trying to get along now.''
But the official added, ''Everybody knows these issues will come up in the future.''
Many northern Sudanese who work in the south are now fleeing. Stocks of goods are going down; prices are going up. People are still talking about what-ifs and the possibility of war, because even after the referendum, some very thorny issues need to be carefully handled before the south can peacefully break off. (The actual declaration of independence is scheduled for July.).
The south produces around 75 percent of Sudan's oil, but it is landlocked, so some arrangement will have to be struck for southern oil to keep flowing through the pipeline in the north. The border will also have to be demarcated, including the tinderbox Abyei area, where Arab nomads historically have crossed back and forth. Billions of dollars of debt will have to be shared.
But most southerners are not thinking of technicalities. This is not simply a political moment, a time for a new line on the map or a new seat at the United Nations.
''This is a dream,'' Mr. Nyuol said, ''a dream we always hoped would come true, even if it took one thousand years.''
All over the streets of Juba, the capital of the south, brightly colored banners flaunt images of a single open hand, the ballot symbol that stands for secession. In towns across the south, loudspeakers blast messages of freedom. And salvation.
''We are going, we are going, we are going to the promised land,'' sang a preacher in Yei, about 100 miles southwest of Juba.
The south is filled with people who have paid for this referendum with their own blood. Amputees hobble down the street in Juba with barely a glance up at the new ministries that their lost limbs helped bring to reality.
Veterans are everywhere, reflective of a society in which men, women and children were all mobilized to fight for independence.
Rose Hawa Simon, a copper-skinned woman with a million-dollar smile, never thought she would see this day, or even that she would be alive right now. She was one of the few female tank drivers for the southern rebels, and in March 1997 her tank was hit and she was shot twice fleeing the flaming wreckage. She does not question the sacrifice.
''Our people were suffering, our people were killed,'' she said. ''I said: 'Let me join. Let me go.' I started training on that tank, because my heart was broken.''
Alex Taban is another former bush fighter. His son, Jackson, followed in his footsteps and joined the rebellion. Jackson was killed in 1997 and buried on the battlefield. As the referendum approaches, Mr. Taban said, ''The thoughts are there.''
The British colonizers planted a political minefield in the 1920s when they drew a line across the bottom third of Sudan and declared that northern and southern Sudanese should remain separate. Part of the reason was to check the spread of Islam. To this day, the upper part of Sudan is mainly Muslim and controlled by Arabs; the lower third is mostly animist and Christian, linguistically and culturally more in tune with Kenya, Uganda and central Africa.
A group of southern soldiers mutinied in 1955, a year before Sudan was granted independence. The civil war had begun.
By 1958, Mr. Nyuol, who is in his 70s (though he is not sure of his exact age), was organizing protests at his high school.
''Even then, we could tell what was happening,'' he said. ''They wanted to Islamize us. They were building mosques all over the place. They wanted us to change our names.''
He went to the forest in 1963. He laid ambushes. He firebombed the cars of Arabs. In the 1980s, after working as a high school math teacher, he ran underground cells to send food and materiel into the bush.
He planned to show up at the polls at dawn on Sunday, even though voting will continue for one week to allow people in far-flung areas to cast their ballots. He will vote for the open hand, for secession, he said.
''We have waited for this, we have fought for it,'' he said.
And when the voting is over, he will return to his work building an archive of old pictures of his comrades who died in the 1960s.
A Look at Southern Sudan: POTENTIAL NAMES: South Sudan, Southern Sudan, New Sudan, Kush Republic, Nile Republic POPULATION: 8.26 million, as of 2008 52 percent of the population is male; 48 percent is female. LAND SIZE: 248,777 square miles URBANIZATION: 17 percent of the population lives in cities; 83 percent in rural areas There are roughly 3,400 miles of road -- virtually all of which are unpaved and only passable during the dry season AGE: About 51 percent of the population is under 18; 72 percent is under 30 Life expectancy at birth is 42 ECONOMICS: Each person lives on an average of 100 Sudanese pounds per month (about $30) The national poverty line is 72.9 Sudanese pounds per month (about $22) 51 percent of the population lives below the national poverty line 53 percent of the working population is unpaid family-member workers 15 percent of households own a telephone 1 percent of households have a bank account EDUCATION: Adult literacy rate is 15 percent, among the lowest in the world There are roughly 129 students per classroom Net enrollment for primary school in 2009 was 48 percent Primary school completion rate is 1.9 percent HEALTH: Infant mortality rate is 102 per 1,000 births Maternal mortality rate is 2,054 per 100,000 births H.I.V. rate is about 3 percent 47 percent of the population is considered ''food deprived'' 6.4 percent of the population has access to improved sanitation 38 percent of the population lives more than a 30 minute walk from drinking water MAJOR ETHNIC GROUPS: Dinka, Nuer, Shilluk MAJOR LANGUAGES: English, Arabic, Dinka, Nuer, Bari RESOURCES: Gold, uranium, teak, oil MAJOR IMPORT PARTNERS Uganda, Kenya (Sources: United Nations, United States Agency for International Development and southern Sudan government sources)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sudanese arrived by boat at a port in Juba. Voting on secession will begin Sunday and continue for a week so all can vote.
 Voting materials were delivered to a church that will serve as a polling center in Wadupe, a village that lies west of Juba. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAP: An unofficial line tracing current province borders: one starting point if the south secedes (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) SUDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



246 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Soul Cuisine

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES. 
William Grimes, a domestic correspondent for The Times, is the author of ''Appetite City: A Culinary History of New York.''

 BODY:
HIGH ON THE HOG
A Culinary Journey From Africa to America
By Jessica B. Harris
Illustrated. 291 pp. Bloomsbury. $26
In one of the personal vignettes that punctuate ''High on the Hog: A Culinary Journey From Africa to America,'' the food historian and cookbook author Jessica B. Harris takes a trip with her mother to Houmas House, near New Orleans. One of a string of former plantations along Louisiana's River Road, the estate bears witness to a cruel history. Harris, who is black, speculates aloud that much of the place was built by slaves. The remark draws an unexpected response. ''What artistry,'' her mother says. ''What beauty they created for people who thought we were nothing but goods, not even human beings!''
This observation runs like a golden thread through Harris's lively if wayward account of how African slaves, thrust into a strange land, carried with them the taste memories, cooking techniques and agricultural practices of their homelands and transformed the way Americans ate. 
In the South, slave tastes defined the cooking repertory in a wide arc that extended from the rice and seafood belt of the Carolinas to the Creole and Cajun lands of Louisiana. Elsewhere, blacks brought new flavors and dishes to white America in restaurants and markets, or on the sidewalk from food carts. As the United States expanded westward, they extended their reach, working as cooks on the chuck wagons that accompanied the great cattle drives and on the Pullman cars that carried passengers all the way to California and the Pacific Northwest. In the process, unsuspecting white Americans learned to appreciate African-derived spices and pungent flavors, to regard Southern dishes like gumbo and fried chicken and red beans and rice as part of the national heritage, to elevate macaroni and cheese to a place high in hipster heaven.
It's a complex story, not easy to tell, and Harris often struggles with it. In her introduction, she shrugs off the burden of writing a definitive history of African-American food: ''That copiously annotated, weighty opus has yet to appear and will be the work of another,'' she writes in a rather disappointing abdication, given her credentials. Who better to take on this work than the author of ''The Africa Cookbook: Tastes of a Continent,'' ''Iron Pots and Wooden Spoons: Africa's Gifts to New World Cooking'' and ''Beyond Gumbo: Creole Fusion Food From the Atlantic Rim''?
Instead, Harris proposes a briefer, more personal history, with the accent on character and incident. This must have seemed an easier approach, but it presents its own difficulties. In trying to establish a historical context for each development in the evolution of black cuisine, she commits herself to a retelling of familiar historical events, with much reiteration of the obvious along the way. Too often, food takes a back seat to the larger narrative of slavery, emancipation and the Great Migration. Prominent culinary figures, whose stories beg to be told in more detail, are shoved aside to make room for W. E. B. Du Bois, Booker T. Washington and John H. Johnson, founder of the Johnson Publishing Company.
That means short shrift for Lena Richard, a New Orleans cook, caterer and writer who began cooking on her own television program in 1947, many years before Julia Child revolutionized American tastes on ''The French Chef.'' With Richard, Harris has struck gold. Inexplicably, she doesn't give the name of the program or describe it in any way.
Likewise with the restaurants operated by Father Divine during the Depression, although Harris does satisfy readerly appetites when she cites a detailed description of a Father Divine banquet, whose menu included ''fricasseed chicken, roast duck, boiled beef, spareribs, fried sausage, lamb stew, liver and bacon, stewed tomatoes, spinach, Brussels sprouts, string beans, asparagus tips, fruit salad, ice cream and chocolate cake.''
Harris does cover a lot of territory economically, offering a tremendous cast of characters whose names deserve wider renown. These include chefs like James Hemings, slave to Thomas Jefferson and brother of the more famous Sally; Robert Bogle, the most eminent of the ''public butlers'' who presided over fine dining in Philadelphia in the early 19th century; and Thomas Downing, owner of one of Manhattan's most cherished 19th-century oyster restaurants.
Throughout, Harris handles the cultural politics of black cuisine skillfully. Even for its principal creators and consumers, down-home cooking meant different things at different times. For aspiring members of the middle class, smothered pork chops and collard greens could be an embarrassment, and for purely commercial reasons, many of the best black chefs turned out fancy food in their restaurants. The racial politics of the 1960s would put a premium on soul food as an authentic expression of the dispossessed, even as Elijah Muhammad, the leader of the Nation of Islam, denounced and warned black Americans to ''stay off that grandmother's old-fashioned corn bread and black-eyed peas, and those quick 15-minute biscuits made with baking powder.''
Crucially, Harris treats her subject as an evolving story. European influences have led chefs to reinterpret classic black dishes, while the African diaspora continues to expand the vocabulary of a cuisine that has always been absorptive and adaptive. ''At an African-American party today,'' she writes, ''it is possible to find the fried bean fritters from Brazil known as acaraje served along with Jamaican meat patties or the Trinidadian roasted chickpeas called channa that originated in India or, yes, fried chicken and a mess of greens.''
The final course has not been served -- which is another way of saying that, after more than 300 years, black American cuisine is still vital and thriving.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cooking class at Hampton Institute in Hampton, Va., circa 1899. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCES BENJAMIN JOHNSTON COURTESY OF LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
 FROM ''HIGH ON THE HOG'' ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); HISTORY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (94%)

TITLE: High on the Hog: A Culinary Journey From Africa to America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



247 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4522 words

HEADLINE: The Hickenlooper Exception

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI. 
Frank Bruni is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
To appreciate what a peculiar political script John Hickenlooper has written for himself, you could start in any number of places, with any number of situations.
Up in the air. You could start there. It was 2005; he was in his first term as mayor of Denver and despite a lifelong fear of heights, he parachuted from a plane -- twice, because the first time wasn't sufficiently photogenic -- for a television commercial supporting two voter referendums in Colorado to permit government spending that he considered vital, lest the state go into free fall. His landing was safe: one of the referendums passed, a result better than many political analysts had predicted. Onward he rolled to the next set of challenges, the next series of stunts.
He got into the shower. Fully clothed. It was last year; he was in his second term, had become a candidate for governor of Colorado and was making another TV ad, this one a lament about dirty politics and a pledge to conduct a clean campaign. He more or less made good on that promise and coasted to victory last November, an upbeat Democrat pitted against two angry Republicans, one running for a third party, who split the conservative vote. His inauguration is Jan. 11. 
But for a proper introduction to his unabashed ways and eccentric means, you should probably go back many years before his formal entry into politics, to 1990, when he hatched a novel idea for promoting the second birthday of a downtown Denver microbrewery and restaurant, the Wynkoop Brewing Company, that he owned at the time.
He borrowed about 10 young, roughly 50-pound porkers from a local farmer, gathered them outside the restaurant and prodded them to scurry down a short alley and around the block, for an event that he described as a ''running of the pigs.'' Over subsequent years he repeated the event and it grew in popularity, drawing more notice and, perhaps inevitably, complaints from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.
So he made an adjustment. He refashioned the swine stampede into the ''pleasuring of the pigs.'' The animals were coaxed along gently and coddled all the while. ''We used parasols, little sun hats -- we made sure there was no sun on the pigs,'' he says. ''People would feed the pigs little treats along the way.'' Still, PETA representatives complained, telling Hickenlooper he was ''objectifying and making a spectacle of pigs,'' as he recalls. They videotaped one year's pleasuring, he says, and ''one pig caught its hoof in a grate and had a little drop of blood on its hoof.'' To head off the dissemination of that image and put an end to PETA's protests, he shelled out about $400 to buy all 14 pigs that had been used in that pleasuring and sent them to a refuge for rescued livestock, where they could grow fatter and older without fear of becoming bacon. And the next year, he says, with a sigh, ''We did a celebration of prairie dogs.''
He was a few years shy of a political career at that point, but the politician was clearly in him, and many of the factors behind his emergence as the top Democrat in Colorado, a fractious political battleground and one of the country's most glaringly purple states, were firmly in place. Hickenlooper has long had a knack for promoting himself, but in ways too clownish and just plain good-natured enough to come across as conventionally scheming. He's a virtuoso goofball, and he's much more inclined toward accommodation than confrontation. In the restaurant business, he often says, he adopted a philosophy that he has carried into other aspects of his life: there is no percentage, none at all, in making and motivating enemies.
Hickenlooper's style has not only been fun-loving and freewheeling but also largely nonpartisan, and it has served him well. He decisively won election as mayor of Denver in July 2003, at the age of 51, despite no previous bids for elective office or experience in government. And he has had a remarkably successful administration, streamlining government, persuading voters to go along with a range of tax increases for projects like regional light rail and a new city jail and shepherding many homeless people off the streets and into newly built affordable housing. In 2005 Time magazine named him one of the five best big-city mayors in the country; in 2007 he won re-election with 87 percent of the vote. The pollster working on his 2010 gubernatorial campaign found that in the Denver metropolitan area roughly three of every four voters had a favorable impression of him. What Hickenlooper has enjoyed over the last seven and a half years isn't so much a sustained political honeymoon as a round-the-world Love Boat cruise -- with complimentary pina coladas nightly on the Lido Deck.
But can it last? Colorado is much more ideologically diverse than Denver itself, home to both the backpackers of Boulder and the Bible thumpers of Colorado Springs, and it's in deep fiscal trouble. Hickenlooper will cross the lawn between City Hall and the State Capitol -- they face each other across a picturesque park downtown -- to encounter a budget shortfall of roughly $1 billion for the coming fiscal year and an obligation, written into Colorado law, to balance the books. Like chief executives far and wide, he must cut and cut and then cut some more, and he must do so in concert with a divided Legislature in which Democrats control the Senate and Republicans the House.
''Being governor of Colorado right now -- it's like trying to pick your teeth with a rattlesnake,'' says Charlie Brown, a Denver City Council member and a onetime Democrat who switched his party registration years ago to ''unaffiliated,'' a group that represents about a third of Colorado's voters. But he and others who have worked with or closely observed Hickenlooper say that his deft political touch up to now gives him as good a chance as anybody might have -- and makes him especially interesting to watch.
Might there be a national example and lesson in his stubborn cheerfulness? Something that politicians elsewhere -- mired for so long in the same old battles and grudges and confronted, as a result, with such profound voter cynicism -- could use to their advantage?
Maybe affability trumps austerity. Maybe it's the smartest card to play.
''I think I can be beloved,'' Hickenlooper told me when I visited Denver in mid-December. He smiled widely, but then he smiles widely all the time and laughs nearly as often. ''Certainly,'' he added, ''I'm very needy, so we'll give it our best try.''
The comment was classic Hickenlooper, a bit of braggadocio quickly leavened with self-deprecation. So was the setting. He leaned far back in the lone chair in a spartan barbershop wedged darkly into a third-floor corner of a building downtown, to get what he said might or might not be his official inauguration shearing, depending on the franticness of his schedule and the growth of his bangs. The cut's cost: $25.
Hickenlooper revels in his image as someone utterly estranged from fashion and largely devoid of physical vanity. It's part of his outsider's cred. At a mayoral candidates' forum in 2003, he wore a glen-plaid jacket with a yellow shirt and a paisley tie, and a line he used repeatedly with reporters at the time was that if he managed to become mayor, he'd have to go out and buy a proper suit. In his closet, he told them, he didn't have anything that qualified.
During his gubernatorial campaign, he sent out a fund-raising letter, which one of its recipients gave me, that showcased a picture of a very young man in very bulky eyeglasses and what appears to be a madras jacket. ''I know this looks like an audition photo for the movie 'Revenge of the Nerds,' but it's actually my senior high-school picture,'' the letter begins. ''Looking back, I had the whole world in front of me. I could have been destined for the big screen, maybe even a modeling career.''
He's kidding, of course, and like other instances of his gleeful self-mockery and buffoonery, it's safe because there is so much countervailing evidence of polish and intelligence in him -- because his haplessness is so obviously overstated. He's 6-foot-1, slender, has a full head of economically cropped hair and doesn't wear glasses anymore, thanks to Lasik surgery a dozen years ago. The high school mentioned in the letter is a private boys academy on the Philadelphia Main Line, and from there he went to Wesleyan University in Connecticut, where he earned not only an undergraduate degree in English but also a graduate degree in geology.
He devours information and eagerly recycles it, a talker so voluble and digressive that he goes so far as to flag his frequent jaunts off topic. From one of my conversations with him: ''I'll digress.'' From another: ''To loop back to the beginning of the digression.'' And from yet another: ''Let me back up and create a context'' -- followed by ''I've lost my train of thought.'' I told his communications director, Eric Brown, that I could, and perhaps should, spend an entire evening trying to diagram an interview with Hickenlooper. ''Welcome to my world,'' Brown said.
Wisecracks pour out of him, some of them not so safe. The first time I mentioned the state's $1 billion budget gap, he quipped: ''You're nobody if you don't have $1 billion. I mean, my biggest fear is that we get a big kick-up in the economy and suddenly it's only $800 million. Then who am I? On the list of governors, I've become second tier!''
Many Coloradans outside the Denver area don't yet have a full sense of this side of Hickenlooper, because his campaign for governor didn't subject him to particularly intense scrutiny. The most fearsome of his potential Republican rivals lost his primary after being accused of plagiarism, and the two conservatives who remained in the race squabbled largely with each other. Kenneth Bickers, chairman of the political science department at the University of Colorado at Boulder, says he routinely talks of Hickenlooper's victory as ''winning without running, which is not technically true, but it's substantively true. He didn't travel the state heavily. He ran feel-good, clever commercials largely devoid of content.''
Republicans still have a slight edge over Democrats in voter registration in Colorado, and in the 2010 midterms, Coloradans sent four Republicans and three Democrats to the U.S. House. That was an abrupt change from 2008, when the split was five to two in favor of Democrats and Barack Obama handily won the state.
But both senators from Colorado are Democrats, as is the outgoing governor, Bill Ritter Jr. One of those senators, Michael Bennet, whose 2010 race against Ken Buck was among the nation's closest and most aggressively fought, says that instances when his party has prevailed in Colorado can be attributed largely to individual candidates' taking a less vitriolic tack than their opponents. ''What a politician needs to be successful here is to not land in the middle of partisan political battles,'' he says.
Hickenlooper doesn't like to. When I asked him what he thought of the tax-cut compromise President Obama struck with Congressional Republicans, he said that without inside knowledge of all the legislative wrangling involved, he wouldn't dare criticize it. He volunteered that he had similarly withheld criticism of most of President Bush's actions.
But he did go on to question one aspect of the Obama presidency -- in order, tellingly, to make clear that he values consensus over a crusade. ''Rather than going to health care first, I would have gone, I think, to transportation infrastructure,'' Hickenlooper said, explaining that he noticed through his work with the U.S. Conference of Mayors that the issue had moved from a Democratic preoccupation to a more bipartisan one. ''Here's something everybody cares about. Maybe we focus on that to build bridges.'' Was the double entendre deliberate?
''I think the Obama administration,'' he added, ''saw a higher need to make history.''
Hickenlooper grew up in a family of four kids in the suburbs of Philadelphia, and what defined his childhood was loss. His mother, Anne, was widowed twice by the age of 40; the father of her two older children died before John was born, and his own father, a steel-mill executive, died of intestinal cancer when John was just 7. Anne was left to raise her two sons and two daughters on her own, and she scrimped to make sure there was enough for their educations but never griped about that or anything else.
''If you're trying to understand John on a deep psychological level, she's the most important person,'' says his wife, Helen Thorpe, a journalist. Thorpe adds that his mother, who died in 2003, ''was relentlessly cheerful every day and never showed any hint of despair or self-pity or anything like that to her children.'' As a result, she says, her husband ''doesn't have any time for anybody who complains'' and maintains an optimism that's ''an act of will.'' He told me that if he starts a day in what feels like a funk, he rallies himself by concentrating on a line he remembers from the movie ''All That Jazz.'' ''It's show time!'' he says to himself. Moods, he observed, are viral, and a good one ''allows people to put down their defenses.''
Although he portrays himself as a fumbling dork through his school years -- poor vision, persistent acne -- others recall a spirited and even moderately athletic kid. ''He was provocative, is one way to put it -- always pushing buttons, lots of childhood pranks,'' says Stewart Alcorn, a cousin who was more like a sibling, just one year behind him at the Haverford School, which Hickenlooper attended from 7th through 12th grades and where he played soccer, basketball and baseball.
Ben Ginsberg, a prominent Republican lawyer in Washington who was friendly with him at Haverford, says that while he wasn't a leader, everybody liked him, adding: ''Was he the most likely person to go into politics? No. Does it shock me he did? No.''
It took him some time to get there. He was at Wesleyan for 10 years in all, a do-gooder and a good-timer whose meandering path to a master's was punctuated with stints helping poor farmers in Costa Rica, founding a free community health clinic close to the university's campus and learning how to brew beer in Maine. Mild forms of dyslexia and attention-deficit disorder sometimes slowed him down, he says, though friends recall an intensity of energy that more than made up for any burdens.
With his geology degree in hand, he got a job with a big oil company in Denver in 1981 but was laid off after five years, during a downturn in the oil industry. He used part of his severance to buy a red '67 Chevy convertible, took a road trip to see his brother in Berkeley, Calif., and, while there, happened to go to the Triple Rock, an early microbrewery. Denver didn't have anything like it. Hickenlooper, in need of a project and a new career, decided to fix that.
From relatives, friends, strangers and a bank, he rounded up $575,000 and constructed the Wynkoop, named for a nearby street, in one of several neglected turn-of-the-century brick warehouses in lower downtown, which is known as LoDo. He chose the neighborhood for the cheap rent, but he also sensed potential for an urban renaissance there. He even moved into a LoDo loft. And as he restyled or bought other restaurants in LoDo and elsewhere, he spearheaded a few business and residential projects around the Wynkoop. ''He wasn't the first to buy property in that part of downtown and develop it,'' says Joyce Meskis, who owns the Tattered Cover, a Denver bookstore of national renown, and who was his partner in one of those LoDo projects. ''But he was one of the most influential. There were obstacles, and he kept at it and kept at it and kept at it.'' The area evolved into one of the city's favored playgrounds, and he became known as one of its patron saints.
He was known, too, for his mischievous streak, which wasn't confined to those pigs. In 1993, for example, he offered a bounty for a bride. He was 41 and considered one of Denver's most eligible bachelors, the head of a bar-and-restaurant empire that was growing into other cities and states. (Most of it, including the Wynkoop, he sold after entering politics.) Friends were bugging him about what it would take to get him to the altar. The right woman, he told them. And whoever found her, he added, could claim a $5,000 prize.
This was a spontaneous, half-kidding proposition, made over beers, but a broad circle of acquaintances came to take it seriously. In a year's time, he went on scores of arranged dates, a procession so relentless he described it to me as ''a death march.'' The bounty became publicly known -- The Rocky Mountain News reported it -- and shortly after that, he fielded and accepted an invitation from Phil Donahue to talk about it on his TV show. By then he was seriously involved with someone; Donahue invited her along as well. Donahue speculated on the air that she would probably never say ''I do'' to her lanky microbrewer, given all the clunky syllables involved in being ''Mrs. Hickenlooper.'' Hickenlooper shot back: ''My mother's been very happy, thank you very little.''
In January 2002 he finally did marry -- a different woman, Thorpe, who kept her own, monosyllabic surname. Although discussion of the bounty had long since ceased, the friend who introduced them remembered it and demanded the reward, in the form of a charitable donation to a school. Hickenlooper paid up and settled down. Today he and Thorpe have an 8-year-old son, Teddy, and a four-bedroom Craftsman house in an old, leafy Denver neighborhood. Thorpe says they probably won't trade that house for the governor's mansion, the grandness and formality of which aren't their style.
Hickenlooper's is one of those lives that's a seemingly endless sequence of colorful anecdotes, going back to his ancestry. One of his forebears was a decorated Civil War general; another forebear was a classical pianist whose husband moved on to Greta Garbo; and his father was a fraternity brother at Cornell University with Kurt Vonnegut, whom Hickenlooper later got to know quite well. His mother's best friend when he was growing up was Agnes Nixon, the creator of the soap operas ''All My Children'' and ''One Life to Live.'' One of his cousins was George Hickenlooper, the movie director who died of an accidental prescription-drug overdose in late October. In George's recently released movie, ''Casino Jack,'' John has a cameo as a U.S. senator.
What got him into politics was football. When the Denver Broncos were building a replacement for Mile High Stadium in 2000, he led the opposition to the team's plan to sell the naming rights, arguing that the ''mile high'' moniker was profitable branding for Denver. He didn't really prevail. The Broncos' new home, financed partly by an investment-management firm, is called Invesco Field at Mile High.
But Hickenlooper found that he enjoyed the soapbox, and friends started whispering ''mayor'' in his ear. By then he had made several million dollars (''Trust me,'' he says, ''I'm small rich, not big rich''), was involved in various charities and knew enough movers and shakers to raise money and make a credible go of it. He says that as he thought about the opportunity, he realized that he had never considered government particularly effective or politicians especially altruistic or honorable. That very pessimism, he says, became a reason to jump in. Shouldn't someone who felt the way he did try to change things, especially if he was in a position to?
He ran as a pro-business, antiwaste populist and outsider. Using the same political ad makers who worked for the former Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura, he did one TV commercial in which he tried on various footwear, hats and suits, dressing as a cowboy in one scene and Uncle Sam in another, while his voice-over explained: ''Everybody says I need better clothes. They want me to look more mayoral. Fact is, I'm not a professional politician.''
He also talked confidently enough about bread-and-butter issues like supporting schools and fighting crime to win endorsements from both Denver dailies, The Denver Post and The Rocky Mountain News (which has since closed). It didn't hurt that many reporters had a cheery, beery familiarity with him from the Wynkoop. In a field of seven candidates -- none advertising any party affiliation, because Denver city elections are by law nonpartisan -- he got 43 percent of the vote, the largest tally by far. And in a runoff with the runner-up, he won 65 percent.
Then he got to work. He recruited an unusually high number of high-powered businesspeople to serve in his administration, but he pruned the overall government work force, a necessity given legal prohibitions against deficit spending. He got tough on police brutality, cut water use, installed a fleet of hundreds of pay-as-you-go public bicycles and exuberantly promoted Denver and Colorado as optimal destinations for corporations and tourists both. During his tenure, the city's convention business boomed. Democrats gathered in Denver in 2008 to formally nominate Obama, an event that also gave Hickenlooper national exposure.
Two aspects of his administration stand out in particular. To obtain financial wiggle room for teacher salaries, transportation projects and other matters, he repeatedly went to voters and got their consent, as Colorado law requires of mayors and the governor, for sales- and property-tax increases and for taking on limited debt. ''He has tax-increase pixie dust,'' says Jon Caldara, the president of the Independence Institute, a free-market advocacy group in Colorado. ''No politician that I've ever worked against has been so successful in selling tax and debt increases as John Hickenlooper.''
His method, in part, was to be humble rather than highhanded. He would spend months and months publicly laying out the economics of the situation, soliciting citizens' thoughts and pinpointing where the money would go. ''Americans -- Coloradans -- are generous,'' he says. ''What they hate is waste.''
And he worked hard in each case to figure out the best pitch. He approached the challenge as a salesman. ''When he wanted to do the jail campaign'' -- which meant $378 million for new jail cells and courtrooms -- ''most of his senior advisers, me included, told him not to do it,'' says David Kenney, a Democratic political consultant in Colorado. ''It had failed twice before.'' Hickenlooper pressed ahead, talking of medieval conditions that undercut Denver's aspirations to be a world-class city and casting jail crowding as a threat to the safety of corrections officers.
The other, perhaps even more pronounced leitmotif of his mayoralty is how determinedly amiable he tried to be. More so than many Denver mayors before him, he reached out to Colorado government officials and citizens outside of Denver, which had been regarded, as big cities so often are, as an exotically liberal enclave. Bill Owens, the Republican former governor who was in office from 1999 to 2007, recalls, ''We'd disagree on lots of issues, but then we'd get together, have a beer and go to a baseball game.'' Whenever a blizzard arrived, he and Hickenlooper would talk to make sure the state and city sent employees home at the same early hour. Owens says that as unremarkable as that sounds, he didn't have that kind of relationship with Hickenlooper's predecessor, Wellington Webb.
Hickenlooper emphasized issues that weren't predictably polarizing, spending his energy, for instance, on his battle against homelessness, which he made sure to wage not just with government money but also with privately raised funds, including coins dropped in symbolic parking meters around the city. ''He took it out of being a cold bureaucratic enterprise and turned it into something the whole city could rally around,'' says Bennet, who was his chief of staff at the start.
When he did step inadvertently into controversy, he stepped quickly back out. Early on he announced, in an ecumenical vein, that the illuminated ''Merry Christmas'' sign at City Hall would be swapped for one that said ''Happy Holidays.'' An outcry arose, and he abandoned the idea.
He had his share of trouble and made his share of mistakes: friction with the police department, botched snow removal, questions about whether he was soft on illegal immigration. One negative rap on his mayoralty was that his focus could be fickle and his attention scattershot. Another was that he was so conflict-averse it was sometimes hard to tell where he stood. Council member Brown says that there are times he has wanted to say: ''John, you're not selling fajitas anymore. You've got to make some people upset.''
There's some evidence that Hickenlooper is a fairly classic liberal, Brown says, mentioning the Chinook Fund, a local charitable organization Hickenlooper started in the late 1980s. It has distributed money to Acorn, to a community center for transvestites and transsexuals and to a pro-Palestinian group. And yet, Brown adds, Hickenlooper is adamant, to a degree not usually associated with such liberals, about rooting out government waste.
During my conversations with him, he talked up the fervency of his support for gay civil unions, using the phrase ''moral courage'' to describe it, but stopped shy of endorsing gay marriage. He said that labor unions get mired in self-preservation but that he's not antiunion per se. As for energy policy, he told me, ''I think we should drill the living daylights out of natural gas and cut regulation'' but also labeled himself an environmentalist. The S.U.V. that he and aides use for official mayoral transport isn't the usual fuel-guzzling Lincoln Navigator or Cadillac Escalade; it's a much smaller Ford Escape Hybrid.
Hickenlooper, who is 58, says he has no ambitions for higher office. To be more accurate, he says there's no point in having them, because he's too unorthodox a Democrat to be recruited for, and supported in, a national race. Still, assuming his first term as governor goes well and he's re-elected in 2014, it's hard not to believe that there will be at least a few murmurs from Democratic operatives, and a few stirrings within Hickenlooper himself, about the presidential race of 2016. And it's just as hard not to wonder if, at some point, an unorthodox, boundary-blurring candidate will be what both parties decide to trot out for a change.
For now his first-term game plan is not known: he was vague with me and also with dozens of reporters and editors at an annual meeting of the Colorado Press Association in Denver. He told the journalists that he was still making key hires and had not yet even read the recommendations of the many transition task forces he created.
He seemed interested mostly in showing his audience a friendly face. When one reporter addressed him as ''Governor-elect,'' he said, ''Governor-elect Hickenlooper -- what is that, nine syllables?'' His count, maybe not so off-the-cuff, was dead-on. He insisted that reporters take a shortcut. His first name, John, would do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Hickenlooper at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF MINTON) (MM24)
BEER BARONS: Hickenlooper, left, and friends in 1988 at the Denver microbrewery where he fi rst embraced the philosophy that there's no percentage at all in making enemies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM ALL EN/DENVER PHOTO ARCHIVES) (MM27)
 CLEAN CAMPAIGN: Hickenlooper, running for governor, took seven showers to get his TV ad against dirty politics just right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SEMON) (MM28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); PHOBIAS (72%); MAYORS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BREWERIES (64%); ANIMALS (61%)

COMPANY: WYNKOOP BREWING CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN HICKENLOOPER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



248 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Three Funds Hit the Jackpot With a Variety of Bets

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
FEAR dominated many headlines in the fourth quarter, as unemployment in the United States, a debt crisis in Europe and inflation in China nagged at investors. But hope for an economic resurgence bubbled up, too, and a variety of market sectors had positive returns.
Three of last quarter's top-performing mutual funds, for example, found rising prices among commodity producers and foreign companies. One even made money on a bet that the jobs market would soon revive. 
An Energy Boost
The Van Eck Hard Assets fund invests in diggers, drillers and tillers. It prospects in all of the commodities-producing sectors -- metals, energy, agriculture and timber -- but energy investments accounted for about 65 percent of the portfolio at year-end. Metals producers made up an additional 30 percent.
The fund's energy stake stemmed partly from a contrary bet on the gulf oil spill, which battered the shares of oil services outfits held by Van Eck, like Halliburton, Cameron International and Weatherford International.
''By the middle of June, we thought the sell-off had been overdone,'' said Shawn Reynolds, one of the fund's co-managers. ''So we added to our Halliburton, Weatherford and Cameron holdings.'' All three provided double-digit returns in the fourth quarter, led by Weatherford, up more than 30 percent.
Rising gold prices helped the fund, too, with Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold in the top 10 holdings as of November. Mr. Reynolds said he and his co-manager, Charles T. Cameron, believe that gold can keep rising as long as economic uncertainty prevailed in the United States and Europe. ''We're not gold nuts,'' he said. ''We're mild gold bulls.''
The fund returned 23.5 percent in the quarter, versus 10.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500 index. Its Class A shares carry an expense ratio of 1.39 percent, compared with an average of 1.36 percent for domestic stock funds tracked by Morningstar.
Gold as Insurance
David A. Nadel, co-manager of Royce Global Value, has lately favored gold miners, too. He says he sees gold as a form of insurance in a world where governments are printing money to lubricate their economies. ''You can take the view that gold is the real money,'' he said. ''It's been a currency for 5,000 years.''
His fund specializes in small-cap investing, so he skips over stalwarts like Newmont Mining and Barrick Gold, opting instead for Medusa Mining. ''Medusa is producing gold at less than $250 an ounce,'' versus a spot price of about $1,400, he said. ''The rub is that all of their mines are in the Philippines -- some people worry about political risk.''
Mr. Nadel and his co-manager, W. Whitney George, range across the globe seeking stocks. Their search in the developing world has led them beyond oft-hyped places like the BRIC countries -- Brazil, Russia, India and China. At the end of November, their largest developing-world stake was in South Africa, at 4.2 percent. (They had about 15 percent of the fund's money invested in the United States.)
South Africa ''is at the nexus of all things sub-Saharan Africa,'' Mr. Nadel said. ''For global multinationals, it will drive any Africa strategy.''
The country has problems, like high levels of H.I.V. incidence and consumer debt, but also advantages like top-quality companies and rich resources, he said.
Among the fund's South African investments is Adcock Ingram Holdings, a maker of drugs and hospital supplies. It has lately traded at a price-to-earnings multiple of about 10. Among well-managed drug companies, Mr. Nadel said, ''you can't find that kind of valuation in the developed world or the BRIC countries.''
Mr. Nadel and Mr. George pride themselves in uncovering overlooked companies, often in ho-hum industries. Thus the fund owns two old-line Austrian manufacturers -- Semperit, a maker of specialized rubber gear like escalator handrails and high-strength hoses, and Mayr-Melnhof Karton, a paper and packaging producer. ''Austrian companies tend to be debt-averse, and they're disciplined cost managers,'' Mr. Nadel said. ''We like companies that can survive economic cycles without needing financing.''
The fund returned 17.3 percent in the fourth quarter and has an expense ratio of 1.69 percent, versus 1.54 percent for the average international stock fund followed by Morningstar.
Balance-Sheet Basics
Francis X. Claro and James M. Tringas, co-managers of the Wells Fargo Advantage Global Opportunities fund, also seek companies with the financial strength to tough out hard times.
''The balance sheet is where we begin our analysis,'' said Mr. Tringas, who is a certified public accountant. ''A lot of investors look to the income statement and underestimate the impact of the balance sheet, but the balance sheet is what allows the investment thesis to play out.'' If a company finds itself desperate for funding, its plans go can awry.
That thinking led them to IAC/InterActiveCorp, owner of Web sites like Match.com and Ask.com. ''It has retired 40 percent of its shares, and it's still sitting on a billion and a half of cash with no debt,'' Mr. Tringas said.
Their belief in new media plays out in international bets, too, including 51job, their largest holding at the end of November. The company publishes online and print classified employment ads in China and helps Chinese companies with their employee benefits. It is benefiting from workers' migration from the countryside to cities. ''It's like the Monster.com of China,'' Mr. Claro said.
Their interest in Monster Worldwide, owner of Monster.com, led them to 51job. Their stake in Monster, their fourth-largest holding as of the end of November, might surprise, given the sorry state of employment in the United States. But Mr. Claro said many investors were too pessimistic. ''In my experience, you get the same rhetoric in every downturn -- the jobs will never return,'' but eventually, they do, he said, and sooner than many commentators predict.
The fund returned 17.1 percent in the fourth quarter, and its Class A shares carry an expense ratio of 1.72 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We're not gold nuts,'' says Shawn Reynolds a co-manager of the Van Eck Hard Assets fund. ''We're mild gold bulls.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David Nadel is co-manager of Royce Global Value, which aims to find overlooked companies, often in ho-hum industries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Francis Claro, left, and James Tringas of Wells Fargo Advantage Global Opportunities emphasize company balance sheets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: ''Flying Higher Than the Market'' Three funds that outperformed the overall market and their peer groups of stock funds -- in the fourth quarter. (SOURCES BY MORNINGSTAR, BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); GOLD MINING (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COUNTRY RISK (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); SPOT MARKET (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (73%); OIL SPILLS (68%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (66%); WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORP (55%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (51%); MEDUSA MINING LTD (50%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (66%); WH4 (FRA) (55%); WFT (SWX) (55%); WFT (PAR) (55%); WFT (NYSE) (55%); CAM (NYSE) (55%); NEM (NYSE) (51%); MML (LSE) (50%); MML (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (66%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (66%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (66%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (66%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (66%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (66%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (66%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (66%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (66%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (55%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (55%); NAICS333911 PUMP & PUMPING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



249 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Man or Male?

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH. 
Charles McGrath is a writer at large for The Times.

 BODY:
IF you are a college graduate of a certain age, you probably remember that there used to be an all-purpose discipline that studied men and their behavior. It was called history. There was also a subject, called literature, that studied what men wrote. And art examined the pictures men painted.
Frustration with the neglect of women's accomplishments -- call it phallocentrism if you like -- was what led to women's studies, which has lately morphed into gender studies on some campuses. Women's studies also gave rise to something called men's studies, which is essentially pro-feminist. You can't exactly major in men's studies, but roughly 100 universities offer courses that fall under the umbrella, and the field has produced influential thinkers like Michael Kimmel, who is a professor at Stony Brook University and author of ''Manhood in America: A Cultural History.''
The academic turf devoted to sex and gender these days is so crowded, in fact, that the prospect of a newcomer, a discipline called male studies, has generated a minor controversy. 
Male studies, largely the brainchild of Dr. Edward M. Stephens, a New York City psychiatrist, doesn't actually exist anywhere yet. Last spring, there was a scholarly symposium at Wagner College on Staten Island, intended to raise the movement's profile and attract funds for a department with a tenured chair on some campus. A number of prominent scholars attended, including Lionel Tiger, an emeritus anthropology professor at Rutgers, who invented the term ''male bonding,'' and Paul Nathanson, a religious studies scholar at McGill University, who specializes in the study of misandry, the flip side of misogyny. Both are on the advisory board of the Foundation for Male Studies, which Dr. Stephens founded last year.
There will be a second conference in April at the New York Academy of Medicine -- right on the heels, as it happens, of the annual conference of the American Men's Studies Association -- and the two groups have already begun jousting.
Robert Heasley, a sociology professor at Indiana University of Pennsylvania and president of the association, has accused the new movement of ''inventing something that I think already exists.'' And at the Wagner College conference, Rocco Capraro, a history professor at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, said much the same thing. Men's studies had been around for 30 years, he pointed out, and was ''an emerging interdisciplinary field concerned with men's identity and experience in the present, over time, across space.''
His definition was sufficiently vague, in other words, that it seemed to cover just about everything male-related, and he suggested that the differences between men's studies and male studies were mostly ones of emphasis.
Actually, the differences are a good deal deeper than that. One argument that male studies advocates make is that men's studies has essentially been co-opted. According to Professor Tiger, the trouble with men's studies is that it's ''a wholly owned branch of women's studies.''
There is also a political dimension to the split. ''I'd like to get away from this terminology but it's true,'' Professor Heasley said in a recent interview. ''It's left wing/right wing.''
But ultimately the differences have to do with radically different notions of what it means to be a man in the first place.
The people in men's studies, like those in women's studies, take a mostly sociological perspective and believe that masculinity is essentially a cultural construct and that gender differences in general are fluid and variable. To Professor Kimmel, we live in a world that is increasingly gender-neutral and gender integrated and that this is a good thing for men and women both. ''That ship has sailed -- it's a done deal,'' he said recently, dismissing the idea that men and women are as different as Martians and Venutians.
The male studies people, on the other had, are what their critics call ''essentialists'' and believe that male behavior is in large part biologically determined. Men think and act differently from how women think and act because that's how evolution shaped them. In the most extreme formulations of essentialism, men are basically still Neanderthals: violent, clannish, sexually voracious and in need of female domestication.
Professor Tiger, who has a somewhat more benign view of men than that, nevertheless worries that the changes that have allowed women to control their own reproductive process have unnaturally and disastrously altered the balance of power between the sexes.
But the biology vs. culture argument has been going on for years, and the male studies movement is less an expansion of that debate than a response to a specific crisis, the nature of which both sides agree on: academically at least, young men are in trouble.
Starting in grammar school, they lag behind girls by most observable measures, and the gap widens through high school and college. If males go to college at all, that is. College enrollment tilts at almost 60-40 in favor of women, and once enrolled, women are more likely than men to do well and to graduate.
There are a lot of explanations for why this is so. A popular theory, set forth in books like ''The Trouble With Boys,'' by Peg Tyre, and ''The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Hurting Our Young Men,'' by Christina Hoff Sommers, is that grammar school classrooms have become excessively feminized, impatient with boys' naturally boisterous behavior and short attention spans and inattentive to the way in which boys learn differently from girls. (Critics who went to school in the '50s, when seat-squirming, loud-talking and other boyish hijinks were even less tolerated, are told that back then education didn't matter so much and that a boy who didn't do well in school had more and better employment options than such a student does today.)
Professor Tiger believes that by the time girls get to college, there is a Darwinian component to the achievement gap: women are aware of the divorce rate and the likelihood that they may raise children without ever marrying in the first place. ''They're studying for two,'' he explained. ''Guys just don't have that sense, that inwit. That's biology at its most essential.''
And then there are the various cultural arguments: that at least by some standards of masculinity, learning -- reading and writing especially -- is ''uncool,'' and that college campuses have become inhospitable to men, who now suffer from fragile self-regard. People associated with the male studies movement frequently bring up the date rape seminar now obligatory on most campuses. On their very first day at college, awkward young men are gathered into a room with their female counterparts and, the argument goes, made to feel like sexual predators.
Miles Groth, who teaches psychology at Wagner College and was host of the conference there last spring, says that what he hears all the time from male undergraduates on his campus is ''I just don't feel welcome here.'' Professor Groth's ''Engaging College Men,'' published last year by Men's Studies Press, discusses programs at 14 campuses directed at improving the lot of men, and he has himself established a men's center at Wagner, a small, private liberal arts school where only 36 percent of the students are men and a quarter of them are recruited athletes on scholarship.
The 15 or so members, many of them philosophy majors, meet once a week to share their thoughts in an atmosphere that is a ''safe haven'' for creating male intimacy, according to Michael Martin, a freshman football player. ''I think of it as a fraternity in the truest sense,'' he explained. ''I think women love that we do this. Or if they don't, they haven't had it accurately explained to them.''
Kyle Glover, a senior and leader of the group, had this to say: ''Guys are struggling. I've heard this argument that now is the girls' time to get back but I don't accept that.'' He went on: ''We talk a lot about what makes us tick as males. How did we get here? What's your relationship with your dad like? Your mom? What do you think women want from you? What do you think you want from them?''
Professor Groth's courses examine what it means to be a man from the points of view of psychology, anthropology, literature and even movies. ''Why the silence?'' he said between classes one day. ''Why hasn't our generation been more vocal about what's happening to our young men?'' And then he partly answered his own question: ''It's the continuing myth of male power. If I as a man raise these issues I'm just raising that old specter of male power because I want to keep women under control.''
Professor Groth, Professor Tiger and Dr. Stephens all seem at great pains not to say anything critical about feminism or women's studies. ''I don't think male studies has emerged from acrimony,'' Professor Tiger insisted. And yet the male studies movement appears to be animated at least in part by a sense that feminism has gone too far on campus and the women's studies departments are too powerful. Professor Tiger and Dr. Stephens like to recite by the sheaf statistics showing how much more resources are being poured into the study of women and their problems than into men and their plight.
Lurking around the edges of the male studies movement, moreover, in Web sites like Paul Elam's A Voice for Men, is a certain amount of anti-feminist hostility, if not outright misogyny. There used to be a link on the Web site for the Foundation for Male Studies to an interminable screed by someone called the Futurist, who was convinced the overvaluing of women and undervaluing of men was about to create a civilizational cataclysm. The piece began more or less rationally, but soon flared with gas jets of anger and worries about ''rage-filled 'feminists' who would gladly send innocent men to concentration camps if they could.''
This intemperateness has recently caused Professor Groth to distance himself a little from the foundation, though Dr. Stephens believes that the rift is less philosophical than methodological, with Professor Groth concerned with setting up men's centers and Dr. Stephens with establishing an academic department devoted to men.
Some of Dr. Stephens's critics like to account for his male studies enthusiasm by pointing out that he went through a bad marital breakup, something he readily admits. ''I was a happy psychiatrist until 1994, when I decided to get divorced,'' he said, sitting in his windowless, ground-level office on the Upper East Side. ''The kids got alienated and I got bankrupted -- part of the gender-skewed system.'' What got him thinking about what eventually became male studies, he went on to say, was his discovery that divorce law barely acknowledged paternal instinct and a sense, growing out of his psychiatric practice, that no one was paying attention to the special needs of men.
Dr. Stephens is an old-fashioned-seeming man, with a grandfatherly mustache and a fondness for bow ties, but he is convinced that, far from being a throwback, he is in the forefront of something: ''I don't have a goal. I have a vision. I sign all of my correspondence, 'Looking forward.' I'm looking forward to some really new approaches to understanding ourselves.''
ONE of Professor Groth's colleagues at Wagner, Jean Halley, who teaches sociology and gender studies, describes him as a popular teacher whose courses on gender and masculinity attract a big enrollment. But she complains about the essentialism of male studies and says that Professor Groth ''seems to like to position himself in a contentious way.''
Professor Groth, who is unmarried and has no children, is a boyish 63. He typically wears a coat and tie but keeps his shirttail carefully untucked. What motivates him, he says, is concern over the way college-age men seem to be foundering and a concern that if nothing is done, they may soon find themselves both unemployable and unmarriageable.
''It's not O.K. these days to talk about the problems of boys and young men without seeming to be anti-girl,'' he said. ''There aren't enough courses and enough people willing to come out of the woodwork and take the flak. A lot of people are hoping it will go away, but I'm not going away. I'm tenured.''
He added that he sometimes wondered if the name ''male studies'' itself was a problem and said, ''I like 'andrology,' except that's the study of prostates.''
Last semester, Professor Groth taught a course on the psychology of men; of 30 students, all but five were women. ''I asked everyone, 'Why are you taking this course?' '' he recalled. ''The boys didn't say anything. The girls all said, 'We want to understand the guys better.' ''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BORIS KULIKOV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



250 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMICS: Profits are Booming. Why Aren't Jobs?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
To gaze upon the world of American corporations is to see a sunny place of terrific profits and princely bonuses. American businesses reported that third-quarter profits in 2010 rose at an annual rate of $1.659 trillion, the steepest annual surge since officials began tracking such matters 60 years ago. It was the seventh consecutive quarter in which corporate profits climbed.
Staring at such balance sheets, you might almost forget that much of the nation lives under slate-gray fiscal skies, a place of 9.4 percent unemployment and record levels of foreclosures and indebtedness.
And therein lies the enduring mystery of this Great Recession and Not So Great Recovery: Why have corporate profits (and that market thermometer, the Dow) spiked even as 15 million Americans remain mired in unemployment, a number without precedent since the Great Depression? Employment tends to lag a touch behind profit growth, but history offers few parallels to what is happening today. 
''Usually the business cycle is a rising-and-falling, all-boats-together phenomenon,'' noted J. Bradford DeLong, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and a deputy assistant secretary for economic policy in the Clinton Treasury Department. ''It's quite a puzzle when you have this disjunction between profits on the one hand and unemployment.''
A search for answers leads in several directions. The bulls' explanation, heard with more frequency these days, has the virtue of being straightforward: corporate profits are the economy's pressure cooker, building and building toward an explosive burst that will lead to much hiring next year.
The December jobs numbers suggest that that moment has yet to arrive, as the nation added just 103,000 jobs, or less than the number needed to keep pace with population growth. The leisure industry and hospitals accounted for 83,000 jobs; large corporations added a tiny fraction.
Consumers appear to have put a toe or two back into the water, as holiday spending rose (although it fell short of analysts' forecasts) and families began to replace the ailing refrigerator or the aging minivan. Car sales are rising.
But relatively few economists, even those who see signs of an improving economy, sound particularly buoyant, a concern shared by liberals and conservatives alike. Jobless recoveries followed on the heels of the last two recessions, but neither prefigured the depth of the trouble this time. After the 1990-91 recession, it took 23 months to add back the jobs lost. After the 2001 recession, it took 38 months. (And it's worth keeping in mind that one of the great housing and credit bubbles in American history fed that hiring; no economist expects that to repeat itself).
At the current rate, the economy will need 72 to 90 months to recapture the jobs lost during the Great Recession. And that does not account for the five million jobs needed to keep pace with a growing population.
None of this has slowed the unprecedented rise in corporate profits. The reasons are many.
More so than in the past, many American-based corporations earn a great portion of their profits overseas. And thanks to porous tax laws, these companies return fewer of those profits to American shores than in the past.
''The big American companies are really global,'' said Robert Reich, former labor secretary for President Clinton. ''They can show big profits from foreign sales. G.M. is making more Buicks overseas than in the United States. There's no special pop for the United States worker.''
Key corporate sectors, too, have undergone a Darwinian pruning during the last three years. In the financial arena, a few hyperprofitable firms now stand where many more once stood.
''If you're Goldman and Morgan Chase, and you once had to compete against Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch, well, of course it's easier now to show a profit,'' said Daniel Alpert, managing partner of Westwood Capital L.L.C., an investment banking firm. ''If you have a modest reduction in expenses, and an industry consolidation at the same time, that translates into a massive increase in earnings.''
Surviving corporate leaders drew sobering lessons from their near-death experience of 2008 and 2009, when brand-name corporations nearly ran short of the cash needed to meet payrolls.
''They found the financial system was nowhere near as safe as they thought -- they no longer think they can borrow as quickly,'' said Simon H. Johnson, an economics professor at M.I.T. and former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund. ''So the amount of cash that they think they should have for precautionary purposes is way up.''
Interest rates are so low that traders can pile up profits by exploiting the spread between a near-zero funds rate and rates on Treasury bonds. This allows some corporations to mark profits without selling much or hiring anyone.
Desmond Lachman, a former managing director at Salomon Smith Barney who now serves as a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative policy center, sees corporate leaders reshaping their worlds.
''Corporations are taking huge advantage of the slack in the labor market -- they are in a very strong position and workers are in a very weak position,'' he said. ''They are using that bargaining power to cut benefits and wages, and to shorten hours.'' That strategy, Mr. Lachman said, serves corporate and shareholder imperatives, but ''very much jeopardizes our chances of experiencing a real recovery.''
These profits, however, may not be as large as they seem. Justin Fox, editorial director of the Harvard Business Review Group, dices the question of productive corporate profits still more finely in a recent column. He figures that pre-tax domestic corporate profits exclusive of the financial sector are the best measure of the ''underlying health of business in America.''
He's not terribly impressed. Profits for these companies ''repeatedly topped 12 percent in the 1950s and 1960s,'' he writes. But in the third quarter of 2010, this sector's share of national income stood at 7.03 percent.
Some economists, conservative and liberal, divine forbidding portents in all of this. If profits and employment no longer rise and fall together, they worry, then an already strained social compact will grow yet more frayed.
Market bulls applauded in November when the Conference Board revealed that consumer confidence was on the rise. But David Rosenberg, an economist at the investment firm Gluskin Sheff, noted that this increase owed entirely to the optimism of higher-income Americans, who are feeling better and better.
The housing market, by contrast, created millions of middle-class jobs and accounted for much of the wealth creation of the past decade. But that sector remains nearly comatose.
''I don't see a pop in corporate hiring, because why should they hurry?'' said Professor Johnson, the former International Monetary Fund economist. ''They are paying themselves well and with demand so low, they don't feel they are missing out on anything.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HISTORY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (70%); HOUSING BUBBLE (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (62%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); CONSERVATISM (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



251 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: CULTURE: Trash Picking, With a Smile

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
Our stuff is suffocating us: at least that's what reality television has told us in recent years. Shows like ''Hoarders'' and ''Clean House'' serve as virtual purges for overconsumers.
Here, having too much is more than just a problem of limited space -- it's a failure of psychology. The things themselves don't matter so much -- could be cans, could be cars, could be cats. Anything that fills a room can ruin a life. 
The past year, though, has seen a shift in perspective. No longer is clutter the enemy, but a potential gold mine. The new reality television hero is the picker, someone willing to face the accumulation the owner just can't and squeeze value out of it. There's potential liberation in them thar piles.
The question is no longer how to get rid of it, but instead, what can be gotten for it?
Even though this shift swaps one reality television archetype for another, it still counts as a turn for the optimistic. Hoarding shows -- and also the many recent shows about addiction, hyperconsumption of a different sort -- mirrored a society that had hit rock bottom, and had no tools with which to dig out.
The new wave of thrift television suggests a world ready for rebound, one more symbol of the slow return of post-recession optimism. Solutions have supplanted problems. Burdens are no longer intractable. By shifting attention away from the accumulators, with their untreated pathologies, to the rescuers, these shows may mean that the nadir is behind us, even if the evidence displayed indicates that there are many obstacles yet to be overcome.
The granddaddy of the thrift movement is ''Pawn Stars'' (History) which premiered in 2009 and has spawned several spinoffs. At the higher end are genteel shows like ''Auction Kings'' (Discovery) and ''Cash & Cari'' (HGTV), with neat transactions and sometimes fancy items. More raw is ''Hardcore Pawn'' (truTV), about one of the largest pawn shops in Detroit, a grim chronicle of underwhelming transactions in which loud people often seek far more money for their items than they're worth.
''American Pickers'' (History), which premiered last year, follows a pair of antiques diggers who crisscross the country to relieve people of their vintage clutter. ''Antiques Roadshow'' has been doing a version of this for years, but on that show, money isn't presented as motivation: often, the pleasant shock of a semi-valuable find appears to be gift enough.
But this new class of programs are driven at least as much by poverty as curiosity. That's even truer on a pair of shows that strip these transactions down to their basest state, in which other people's detritus -- not their valuables -- is the loot. On ''Storage Wars'' (A&E) -- just renewed for a second season -- buyers bid (with only minimal inspection) on abandoned storage lockers, hoping to turn a profit on the things other people forgot about, or couldn't afford to keep hoarding. ''Scrappers'' (Spike), which aired last summer, followed scrap-metal collectors in Brooklyn on their light-hearted chase of tossed-off copper wiring, boilers and aluminum siding.
These scavengers are an inevitable counterpart to a fizzling culture of abundance. Dollars change hands on these shows, though often not many.
Many of the shows detail the profits earned from a day's picking, pawning or scrapping, and in the case of the resale houses on ''Auction Kings'' and ''Cash & Cari,'' the numbers can be surprisingly small. In the case of ''Scrappers,'' in which a couple of workers typically split a few hundred dollars after a hard day's work, it's heartbreaking, a naked depiction of working-class struggle.
The secondhand dealers, too, are fighting over scraps, hoping to pull in $50 for a $25 find. Factor in labor costs and time spent, and not much profit is left over. That's where the secondary income of the reality TV star, including merchandise, becomes essential. (Almost all of the stores with their own shows sell memorabilia.)
These programs, brutal as they are, depict just the end of a long cycle of acquisition; only a bit of lip service is given to how these items came into the possession of their owners.
Maybe the next wave of money-saving shows will display overspending in action: TLC just picked up a full season of ''Extreme Couponing,'' in which circular-obsessed shoppers make off with hundreds of dollars' worth of products for pennies on the dollar. They rummage in paper-recycling bins to find unclipped coupons, and they buy what's on sale, and a lot of it, which leads to stockpiling that verges on the comedic.
Unlike other hoarders, they don't appear the least bit ashamed of their behavior. And they're part of a shockingly large community of over-the-top cost cutters. These stockpilers, whose videos are available on YouTube, come off as the antithesis of a past YouTube sensation -- haul shopping, in which mostly young women show off their ritzy purchases for the camera.
Coupon shoppers are not flaunting their bulk cases of cereal and deodorant, but the psychosis of acquisition, under the guise of smart savings.
Can a call from ''Hoarders'' be far behind, beginning the cycle anew?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEEL-GOOD TV: ''Pawn Stars,'' left, tells stories about finding solutions to financial problems. ''Hoarders,'' on A&E, tells tales of overconsumption. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SCREAMING FLEA PRODUCTIONS, A&E) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CATS (70%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); FARM LABOR (63%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (63%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



252 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: If You've Got the Nerve, Silver Is Easier to Buy

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
FOR a metal deemed precious, silver has often been ignored by investors.
But not lately. In 2010, its price rose 84 percent, ending the year at $30.91 an ounce. On a percentage basis, it dusted gold, whose price increased by 30 percent, to $1,421.10 an ounce.
Silver's rise was powered partly by economic anemia in the United States and Europe. Like gold, silver has been seen as a safe house in times of trouble. Yet it also benefited from a new accessibility: in the last five years, several companies have introduced exchange-traded funds, or E.T.F.'s, that enable the indirect ownership of silver bullion and silver futures contracts. These E.T.F.'s can give many of the advantages of owning bars or coins without the costs and hassles. 
''The E.T.F.'s have really democratized silver,'' said Michael DiRienzo, executive director of the Silver Institute in Washington.
Investment professionals are divided over whether silver has a place in an average person's holdings. Like any commodity, it can provide diversification when added to a broad portfolio of stocks and bonds. But that benefit comes with a cost: silver prices can zigzag wildly. Even advocates of commodities suggest that most people should put only a sliver of their savings into silver.
''A single metal isn't interchangeable with a broad-based commodities basket,'' said Martin Kremenstein, chief investment officer at DB Commodity Services, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. ''You might overweight silver if you have a view on it, but you can't use it to replace having an exposure to broad commodities.''
Investors seized on silver last year. The largest silver E.T.F. -- the iShares Silver Trust -- swelled to more than $10 billion in assets, after beginning the year at $5.2 billion. Through December, it returned 21.1 percent, annualized, since its 2006 inception; it carries an expense ratio of 0.5 percent.
The iShares offering is a bullion fund. As investors plunk down their money, the sponsor, BlackRock, buys silver bars that are then stored in vaults in London. In December, those vaults held nearly 11 tons. BlackRock contracts with JPMorgan Chase to manage and guard the trove. Investors cannot visit, but they can see a list of the bars, recorded by serial number, online.
Compared with old-fashioned silver investing, an E.T.F. offers ''safety and simplicity,'' said Kevin S. Feldman, an iShares managing director at BlackRock. You can easily buy and sell shares and don't have to worry about storage, he says.
ETF Securities in London also recently introduced a bullion fund: ETFS Physical Silver. One of its selling points is price: its expense ratio is just 0.3 percent.
Before E.T.F.'s, silver, like all precious metals, presented obstacles for retail investors. Acquiring bars or coins often involved verifying purity, renting space in a vault and buying insurance. The other option, buying silver futures contracts, demanded a level of expertise that made stocks and bonds seem simple.
The jargon alone, involving oddities like ''backwardation'' (when a futures price is lower for delivery in distant months than for delivery in near months) and ''contango'' (when the price is higher for distant months than near ones) can seem like a joke played on the novice.
Futures E.T.F.'s free retail investors from having to master some of these intricacies. These funds buy contracts to provide exposure to a commodities market. In essence, a futures E.T.F. tries over the long term to replicate silver's return without having to take possession of bullion.
PowerShares has teamed up with Deutsche Bank to offer one such fund: PowerShares DB Silver. Through December, it returned 24 percent, annualized, since its inception in 2007, and it carries an expense ratio of 0.75 percent.
An advantage of the futures approach is that ''the tax rate is lower,'' said Mr. Kremenstein at DB Commodity Services. Bullion funds are taxed as collectibles at 28 percent for all taxpayers, while futures are taxed as investment contracts, under section 1256 of the Internal Revenue Code. ''Their gains are divided into 60 percent long-term capital gains and 40 percent short-term capital gains,'' he said. This blended tax treatment gives futures a lower effective rate.
Not every analyst is convinced that silver E.T.F.'s -- or any fund that bets on a single commodity -- belong in retail investors' portfolios.
Vanguard doesn't offer them because they expose unsophisticated investors to too much risk, said Chris B. Philips, a senior investment analyst in the company's investment strategy group.
''Buying silver to get exposure to commodities is like buying only health care stocks to get exposure to stocks -- you can introduce tremendous volatility to your portfolio,'' he said. ''Silver bugs would say that silver has never lost 100 percent of its value, and Lehman Brothers did. That's true. But we'd never recommend that people invest only in a single stock.''
SILVER does have many industrial uses.
''It's a unique metal,'' says Peter D. Barnes, chief executive of Silver Wheaton, a producer based in Vancouver, British Columbia. ''It's the best conductor of heat and electricity. It's used in laptops, cellphones and solar panels.''
It also appears to impede the growth of bacteria and fungi. Thus medical companies have created silver-impregnated bandages, and clothing manufacturers have begun to weave it into garments to help fight odors. ''The U.S. Army puts microscopic amounts of silver in socks,'' Mr. Barnes says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Silver bars in Vienna. In recent years, new exchange-traded funds have enabled more indirect ownership of silver bullion and futures contracts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEONHARD FOEGER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); BONDS (73%)

COMPANY: BLACKROCK INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (69%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); DEUT (JSE) (69%); DBK (FRA) (69%); DBK (BIT) (69%); DBETN (JSE) (69%); DBA (ASX) (69%); DB (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (85%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



253 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: HOME ECONOMICS: The Last Resort

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DOERR. 
Anthony Doerr is the author, most recently, of ''Memory Wall.''

 BODY:
Donnelly, Idaho
A TAMARACK is a tree, a larch; in autumn its needles turn a magnificent gold. Here in the mountains of central Idaho, it's a place, too -- and more than that, a symbol.
Tamarack Resort started as a cattle ranch on a series of east-facing slopes on the western shore of a shallow reservoir called Lake Cascade. The location has the Boise airport two hours away, good snow and dazzling views. In summer you can watch osprey dive for perch; in winter, on the high ridges, the trees get so rimed with ice that they look like gardens of oversized, glittering cauliflower.
First developers called it Valbois, then WestRock, then Tamarack, and in the early 2000s, despite a fair amount of local resistance, the project gained real momentum. Plush high-speed chairlifts were installed; one began seeing ads for the resort in airports as far south as Mexico. 
When it opened in December 2004, Tamarack was the first new American ski resort in more than two decades. It had an 89,000-square-foot hotel with ''European flair'' and a New Year's Eve spread in this newspaper. Dozens of houses had gone in with plans for hundreds more. Construction began on a huge ski village that would feature restaurants, condos and shopping.
President George W. Bush showed up to go mountain biking. Golf Digest named the Robert Trent Jones Jr.-designed golf course the best new public course in the country. Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf were partnering with Fairmont Hotels to plan luxury ''condo-tels'' where, if you could afford it, the tennis stars would design your furniture.
Then? Then the bottom fell out. Payments were missed; a big loan did not come through; the majority owners filed for bankruptcy. Though a court-appointed receiver managed to keep the ski lifts running until March 4, 2009, the resort was shuttered almost immediately afterward.
I wandered around Tamarack in the fall of 2009 and saw no one. Loose flaps of commercial wrap, stapled up over the half-finished ''village plaza,'' were shredding in the wind. A poured foundation on a ski-in ski-out lot, a quarter of the way up the mountain, was full of rainwater and tamarack needles. The place looked like ''The Shining.''
And when Tamarack went, jobs went with it. In 2009, Valley County lost 40 percent of its construction jobs. Unemployment pushed up to 20 percent. Fishing is not nearly as fun when you're not skipping work to do it.
Lately, though, a spark of hope has flared up at Tamarack. A group of homeowners offered their association dues to meet the terms of the ski area's land lease for one more season. On Dec. 6, a bankruptcy judge ruled they could use the resort's equipment, and on Dec. 20, the chairlift started carrying skiers up the mountain again.
I drove my family through a blizzard to ride with them. Snow was pouring out of a platinum sky and off trail the powder was light, cold and knee-deep. Everybody I saw seemed ecstatic. Nathan Jacobson, a snow removal worker, told me he was ''absolutely thrilled to have a job.'' A woman on the chairlift with me and my son said she ''couldn't wipe the smile off her face.''
At lunch I stood behind Tim Flaherty, the director of the homeowners' association that spearheaded the effort to reopen the mountain; while I waited for a burger, six different people came up to thank him. The resort, Mr. Flaherty said, will employ 65 people this season. Ten more for the holiday season. In a county with a year-round population of about 8,700, those are meaningful numbers. Chad Warren, an employee shoveling snow in the parking lot, looked at me, then pointed up into the snow and grinned. ''Like pennies falling from the sky,'' he said.
Toward evening the snow let up momentarily and from mid-mountain we could see all the way down to the mammoth, half-finished ski village in the parking lot: cold, dark, foreboding. But down there, too, between the empty buildings and heaps of snow, we saw something much more heartwarming: headlights, dozens of them, moving along the road to Tamarack -- people, going to play again, and going to work again, in Valley County.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRISON HAYNES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); SKIING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (70%); GOLF (69%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); PROPERTY LEASES (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); JUDGES (62%); CYCLING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (92%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



254 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Learn

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH. 
Abby Goodnough is Boston bureau chief of The Times.

 BODY:
RAYNE NELSON, a 21-year-old sophomore at Landmark College in Putney, Vt., does not let her attention deficit hyperactivity disorder throw her off track.
Ms. Nelson is paying most of her own way at Landmark, a two-year college exclusively for students with learning disabilities and A.D.H.D. She wants to graduate on time this spring, and with tuition and fees alone at $48,000 a year -- more than any other college in the nation -- she cannot give in to distraction.
''I have a lot riding on this,'' says Ms. Nelson, who is also dyslexic. She wants to transfer to a four-year institution and get a bachelor's degree -- a goal that would have been out of reach, she says, had she not found Landmark three years after graduating from high school. If Ms. Nelson gets her associate degree in May after four semesters, she will buck the trend at Landmark.
Only about 30 percent graduate within three years; many others drop out after a semester or two. The numbers suggest that even with all the special help and the ratio of one teacher for every five students, the transition is not easy. 
About half of the 500 students at Landmark are recent high school graduates or, like Ms. Nelson, arrive after a period of drifting. Most of the others have tried and failed at college already, coming with the goal of getting the academic or organizational skills they need to succeed at a four-year college or to enter the workforce.
Federal law requires all colleges to provide some accommodations for the learning disabled -- tutoring, for example, or extra time on exams -- and with the rapid increase in students with diagnosed learning disabilities, many mainstream colleges and universities are trying to serve them better. But they still fall short, experts say, for those who need help not just with study skills like how to take notes and write papers, but also with basic daily functions like getting to class on time. Proactive parents might help these students make it through high school, but they face steep odds once they leave home.
For such students, options are growing. Mitchell College, a small residential campus in New London, Conn., now offers a transition year in which students earn transferable credits while preparing for college life. Beacon College in Leesburg, Fla., like Landmark a degree-granting institution for the learning disabled, plans to add a summer program for college-bound students by 2012 and take 100 more students by 2014.
Among for-profit ventures, the College Internship Program helps 18- to 26-year-olds learn social, academic and life skills, including how to study, manage money and even cook. It is expanding its summer transition program for new high school graduates to each of its locations in five states. Landmark, too, is expanding its summer program, to North Carolina, Oregon and California.
All of these programs are expensive and, given the economic downturn, out of reach for many. This fall, for the first time, Landmark did not meet its enrollment target, with 26 fewer students than planned. ''Applications and acceptances were up,'' says Dale Herold, the college's vice president for enrollment management, ''but when it came down to paying, the follow-through wasn't there. The economy this year was like, whoa.''
The drop is a serious matter for a small, tuition-dependent college. Landmark has an endowment of only about $11 million. One reason is that the college is relatively young -- it is celebrating its 25th anniversary this school year. Another, officials say, is that alumni are reluctant to donate because of the stigma attached to attending a school for the learning disabled.
Some students struggling in mainstream colleges decide to spend just a ''bridge semester'' at Landmark to get help specifically with time management and productivity. MacLean Gander, who teaches writing to these students, says many of those in his class are talented writers but routinely fail to show up for class or hand in papers. They are students like Isabel Jacob, 19, who has A.D.H.D. and was asked to leave Salve Regina College in Newport, R.I., after failing three courses her freshman year, and Michaela Brunell, 20, who fell behind at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
''I loved it my first year,'' Ms. Brunell says, ''but as my classes got more work-oriented, I didn't have good strategies set up.''
One recent session, she was one of only two students prepared to make a final presentation in Mr. Gander's class, which explores how A.D.H.D. affects the writing process and helps students deal with their attention issues. Mr. Gander repeatedly reminded the students that their final paper was due that Friday; he seemed concerned that most students were putting off making their presentations until then, too.
''Obviously we're going to have a long day on Friday,'' he says, scanning the faces in his classroom.
ON its face, Landmark College does not look like one of the nation's most expensive schools. The academic buildings are squat and plain, the grounds understated, and some dorm rooms have a '70s-era feel. Likewise, in many classrooms there are only subtle hints of the learning disabilities that make college so challenging for the students there. Some might speak so quickly that they are hard to follow; others might trail off in the middle of answering a question, distracted or grasping unsuccessfully for the right words.
One afternoon in an English class, a student frequently asked the professor to repeat what he had just said. In a seminar about learning disabilities, meant to help students understand their diagnoses, a young woman was using three differently colored pens to highlight text, a strategy to process what they read: one color might indicate unfamiliar words, and another the facts that could show up on a test.
''We're dealing with really bright students here,'' says Michael Nieckoski, Landmark's director of educational technology services. ''In some ways they may be even smarter than your average undergraduate, because they've spent most of their lives trying to either overcome their diagnosis or outsmart everyone.''
By the time they get to Landmark, though, some are so far behind that the chances of catching up are slim. Linda J. Katz, the college president, says about 20 of the 220 new students this past fall could not read above a sixth-grade level. They started out working on basic skills in noncredit courses. This fall, about 6 percent of Landmark students were taking only noncredit courses; another 16 percent were getting partial credit while they worked on reading and writing. Those with more than basic skills take a for-credit curriculum that includes classes in literature, history and science.
During their first semester, students are steeped in techniques for keeping up with schoolwork. For note-taking, they are taught to divide a page into two columns, recording as much of the lecture as possible on one side and main ideas and topics on the other. For time management, they are given planners and told to schedule everything from when they will start a homework assignment to when they will eat dinner.
''It's really about being intentional and systematic in ways that are common sense,'' Mr. Gander says, ''but not taught as explicitly, generally, as they ought to be.''
Every student who needs it gets assistive technology. Those who have trouble reading, for example, can listen to a computer reading their textbooks instead. Those who struggle with writing and spelling can dictate a research paper to a computer that will transcribe it.
Meghan Benzel, a third-semester student with A.D.H.D. and nonverbal learning disorder, says being able to listen to her reading assignments had made all the difference for her. ''It's saved my reading comprehension,'' she says. ''I can actually get work done instead of staring at a textbook for hours.''
Ms. Benzel, 20, came to Landmark reluctantly -- her aunt had heard it advertised on the radio -- after graduating from high school in Kennett Square, Pa. There, Ms. Benzel says, she was an unhappy loner whose top goal was keeping her learning disabilities secret.
''I'd make up so many excuses just to get by,'' she says, ''but I still felt like the odd man out. It was great to get here and realize that everyone needed almost the same help I needed.''
In addition to taking five classes last semester, she is a tour guide and residential adviser with a gaggle of friends and concrete goals. After graduating in May, she plans to join AmeriCorps and work with inner-city children.
But Ms. Benzel says that as an R.A., she sees another kind of Landmark student -- the kind who comes grudgingly, often pushed into it by parents, and never accepts help.
''Last week the kid next door to me left,'' she says. ''He had given up on classes and wasn't in good contact with anyone.''
It is not supposed to happen that way. Officially, a network of academic advisers who meet weekly with each student, resident deans who live in the dorms, and tutors and counselors keep a close eye on students who rack up absences, botch assignments or appear socially or emotionally adrift. But in reality, such students are especially likely to resist help and keep their problems under wraps. John Nissen, dean of transfer services at Landmark, says the best predictor of success is ''the ability to stop resisting everything.''
Andre Salerno, a 25-year-old from New York City who flunked out of two other colleges before arriving at Landmark, says students who leave typically struggle with social interactions and scheduling issues even more than they do with academics.
''They don't go to classes a lot,'' he says, ''and they're usually up all hours of the night.''
Rayne Nelson says student turnover is so high that ''I've had different sets of friends every semester.'' For a while she tried to help other students in her dorm, inviting groups of them into her room at night.
''I was the mother hen,'' she says. ''I was like, 'Everybody come into my room and we're all going to do our homework.' ''
Eventually, though, her own tactics to stay focused included moving alone to an apartment in town. ''It's distracting on campus,'' she says. ''Too many people come up and talk to you.''
The typical Landmark student is 19 and male -- only about 30 percent are women, who are less likely to have diagnoses of learning disabilities, partly because of genetic and neurological differences and partly because girls are more likely to keep disabilities hidden. But there is no typical path for the roughly 100 students a year who graduate. Some, like Ms. Benzel, reject the idea of continuing school, at least in the near term.
Of those who received associate degrees and transferred to four-year institutions over the last five years, about a third dropped out, according to data gathered by Landmark. The rest have either graduated or are still working toward bachelor's degrees.
Sarah Tarbell-Littman of Bronxville, N.Y., had floundered for a semester at Mount Holyoke College, spent five semesters at Landmark and now attends Clark University, taking three courses each semester instead of four so as not to fall behind.
''She knows what she needs now and can ask for it,'' says her mother, Diane Tarbell. ''Sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't, but that's a big first step.''
Landmark, she says, helped her daughter feel more comfortable with her dyslexia. ''There's something very freeing about being among peers that are struggling with many of the same issues,'' she says. ''It was very empowering for her. And to also just wear it on your cuff -- 'Hey, I have dyslexia.' Everybody gets it.''
In the Landmark seminar about learning disabilities, the class of eight discussed the concept of reframing -- learning to look at their disabilities in a different, more positive light. Reframing was often a lifelong struggle, their instructor warned, but in the warm cocoon of the classroom, as rain gently tapped the windows, the process seemed well under way, if only for the hour and 15 minutes that the class was in session.
''It isn't something to be ashamed about,'' says Levi Nelson, a second-semester student with Asperger's syndrome from Brandon, Vt. ''It's something about you. It's truth. There you go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOCUS: At Landmark, for students with A.D.H.D. and learning disabilities, strategies are developed to deal with attention and productivity issues. For many, the odds are against them. (EB16)
CONTINUING ED: Rayne Nelson, top, hopes to graduate from Landmark in May and attend a four-year college. Meghan Benzel, above right, rejects the idea of more school, at least in the near term. (ED17)
 LISTEN TO ME At Landmark's library, Naima Cohn uses voice recognition software that types her poem into a computer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); DYSLEXIA (78%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); TRENDS (72%); LABOR FORCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



255 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 2822 words

HEADLINE: The 373-Hit Wonder

BYLINE: By ZACHARY LAZAR. 
Zachary Lazar's most recent books are ''Sway'' (2008) and ''Evening's Empire: The Story of My Father's Murder'' (2009).

 BODY:
Imagine old, baldPete Townshend shuffling gingerly onstage as a synth burbles up behind him -- ''Let My Love Open the Door.'' Now imagine the rapper Pimp C already on that stage, in a white fur suit and hat, holding up four fingers to show off his bling. A kick line of girls in black minishorts walks it out for DJ Unk, who's rapping about a kick line of girls, then Levon Helm appears on a drum riser to chirp out ''The Weight.'' Also onstage: Jay-Z, Black Sabbath, Rick Springfield, Kesha, Bruce Springsteen, Miley Cyrus, the Ramones and Tupac and Biggie Smalls (both back from the dead) and hundreds more. In the audience are a few thousand fans jammed together beneath a blinding light show, waving their arms as rolls of toilet paper and explosions of confetti fall around them. You sense they're feeling the same freedom, daring and camaraderie that they might at a house party when someone's parents are away. This is pretty much the state of affairs at a Girl Talk show these days.
Girl Talk is the stage name of the 29-year-old Pittsburgh native Gregg Gillis. 
In November, Gillis and his label, Illegal Art, released the fifth Girl Talk album, ''All Day,'' as a free download. Within 24 hours, several sites had posted annotations of ''All Day,'' cataloging the samples on the album --there are 373 of them. Download traffic was so heavy that MTV News ran the headline ''Girl Talk Apologizes for Breaking the Internet'' -- hyperbole, but not far from the truth. Illegal-art.net reports that ''All Day'' was downloaded so often that the servers crashed. In Girl Talk's honor, Pittsburgh declared Dec. 7, 2010, ''Gregg Gillis Day.''
All this excitement is focused on a performer whose instrument is a laptop. Girl Talk songs are mash-ups: chunks of other people's songs combined into new ones: the Rolling Stones and the rapper Wiz Khalifa, Ice Cube and Devo. The mash-ups sound ironic to the ironically inclined and like pure joy to the joyfully inclined, and for both camps they're fun to dance to. These are not just a collection of other people's hooks; Girl Talk has created a new kind of hook that encompasses 50 years of the revolving trends of pop music. Sometimes cynicism is a hook, sometimes the hook is humor, angst, irony, aggression, sex or sincerity. Girl Talk's music asserts all these things at once.
On Dec. 3, Girl Talk inaugurated the new Stage AE concert hall in Pittsburgh, filling the arena on two consecutive nights. (Despite the fact that there are no instruments onstage, Girl Talk can sell tickets as fast as some of the stars he samples.)
On his last tour, Gillis kept a travel diary. He interviewed fans on camera, people who waited for hours in the cold to get into his show, but when he started asking questions, it was clear they didn't recognize him. Gillis, incognito without trying to be, asked some fans where he could find some tickets to his own performance. They marveled at his cluelessness. ''Do you know how hard it is to get those?'' they asked.
''There's a chance I'm going to the after-party, and no one's going to recognize me,'' he told me.
I opened a backstage door at Stage AE and found 30 or so fans crammed into a brightly lighted hallway like cattle in a chute -- they had been selected to dance onstage that night. On previous tours, Gillis invited everybody onstage to dance. The shows are too big now, so Gillis sends some of his crew-member friends out to the audience to choose dancers, including a guy named Erik that night, to join him. Before each show, Gillis swaddles his laptop in Glad plastic wrap and Scotch tape to protect it from the beer and sweat of the fans onstage with him.
Erik and a friend drove all the way from New York for the show, and they wore black and gold, the colors of Pittsburgh's sports teams. Erik bounced on his feet, and the sweat was already starting to glaze his forehead. ''I want a leaf blower,'' someone shouted.
In the dressing room, Gillis's friends talked about LeBron James and his infamous return to Cleveland as a member of the Miami Heat. Gillis is small and genial, his eyes alive with humor. He discussed the set list, the lighting and the double encore with his tour manager -- ''They should wonder if there's going to be one or two'' -- then talked about his plan to get matching Girl Talk Air Jordans for everyone on the crew, including the bus driver, imagining a fan seeing that and having his day made.
Minutes before showtime, I found Gillis alone in a kind of abandoned break room. His baseball cap had been replaced by a sweatband, and his custom basketball shoes -- Nikes that really do say ''Girl Talk'' -- sat on a folding chair beside him. He wrapped athletic bandages carefully around both of his feet: for the next 70 minutes on stage, he would dance so hard that he would be sick to his stomach afterward, like a marathon runner. The intensity with which he dances occasionally makes his feet bleed. He can't stop his feet pounding, his head bobbing. Before he found the right kind of table, adjusted to the proper height, he got dark bruises on both thighs from crashing against it in his trance.
It was the first time he had played Pittsburgh in more than a year. His parents and friends were all there, the people who knew him before this strange project turned into something that amounts to news. There was a brand new stage set with LED screens and a live video feed that had not been tested. Gillis, a perfectionist and workaholic, was up the previous two nights preparing new spins on the material from ''All Day.'' He never wants the audience to hear the same thing twice. The music he makes onstage is made in real time -- it's not a matter of just pressing ''play'' and standing back, pantomiming. He has to carry in his memory the contents of hundreds of different sample loops, and while he dances he triggers these at precise moments with clicks of the mouse, developing an evolving scramble that requires timing, agility, inventiveness and a head for math.
What you see before the show and at the after-party is not the stage persona, Girl Talk, but Gregg Gillis, a former biomedical engineer whose musical roots are not in party music but in the obscure corners of avant-garde noise. One of the projects he helped develop in his scientist days, he told me, was a means of stimulating peoples' inner ears to help them sleep. In science, he used many of the same skills -- researching and compiling data, cataloging it, recombining it -- that he now uses to make his music. You could say there's a certain Andy Kaufman element to what Gillis does: the meticulous sampler transforming himself into the manic performer. But there's nothing cynical about Gillis alone in that room, bandaging his feet.
You might expect that Girl Talk's success has made Gillis a legal target. His sound collages are radically different from their sources, far more than the sum of their parts, but to an entertainment lawyer they might look like a lawsuit. Or, in the words of Lawrence Lessig, author of ''Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy,'' ''a gold mine.''
To secure permission to use the 373 samples on ''All Day'' would cost, Gillis estimates, millions of dollars. Some labels would refuse, others would draw him into endless negotiation. But he has never been sued. No one has ever asked him to stop doing what he's doing. One of the acts he samples on ''All Day,'' the Toadies, proudly put a link to Girl Talk on their home page.
''We don't realize how much the notion of creation has changed for people under the age of 25,'' Lessig says. He suggests that in 20 years the sampling issue will seem ''completely bizarre.'' Any Girl Talk show provides a vivid preview of what the future might look like. It will look like leaf blowers showering confetti on a crowd going crazy to an unlikely pairing of Soulja Boy, the hip-hop idol, with the avant-garde electronica of Aphex Twin.
The act now known as Girl Talk began in places like Pittsburgh's Millvale Industrial Theater -- ''a concrete block in the middle of nowhere with a space heater'' where Gillis as a teenager used to go to hear noise. Japanese noise, Austrian noise, strange, severe antimusic. Gillis was steeped in Nirvana and Public Enemy, and the paradigm was already established in his mind: anything that mattered in music (if not in everything) involved darkness, angst and confrontation. The teenage connoisseur of the unusual or the abrasive -- the weirdo who is simply drawn to this stuff -- almost invariably develops a siege mentality: ''No one else gets what I like and hence everyone is a moron. Not only that, but now that I'm alienated, I'm going to say no to everything that ordinary people like, even if I secretly like it myself.''
In high school, he used to put up a life-size cutout of Christina Aguilera at shows and play 12 scratched CDs at once or shoot fireworks or smash a bunch of TVs -- and he might have three people watching in the dark with their arms crossed. In a space like that -- playing to an art crowd -- it occurred to Gillis that going pop would be a ''good joke.'' He started running onstage like a lost member of Wham!, screaming and tossing confetti, and the same three people would still be standing there. He put together a kind of dance party, filling up the stage with a group of costumed sidekicks who did ''superbasic'' routines that Gillis choreographed. College lightened him up: girls, parties and dancing. He began to incorporate beats and rhythm. ''I'm yelling at the audience to loosen up and dance, but I'm playing noise music,'' he remembers. ''Would it really be so wrong to have beats?'' He would go to rock clubs and get heckled by ''30 guys smoking cigarettes and chugging beers while I played a Madonna remix.'' Twenty people in Boston, zero in Providence. (''The guy who booked the show forgot he booked it.'') He would go on and anger the audience with his silly show, then the second act would do a punk thing and fights would inevitably break out. ''My older crowd were not the kind of people who would pay $30 for any concert,'' he says. ''I was trying to be this sore thumb of pop. I was almost poking fun at the idea of a rock-and-roll laptop show.''
But by 2006, people were starting to take seriously what had started as Gillis's avant-pop joke. Pitchfork, the influential indie-rock Web site, gave ''Night Ripper,'' Girl Talk's third release, an out-of-the-blue rave review. Girl Talk was suddenly headlining the Mercury Lounge in New York. ''I was weirded out,'' he says of that night. ''These people actually wanted to see this laptop show. I used to pretend that the audience was having fun. After six years of pretending, the audience was now actually having fun.''
Where the hipster says ''no, no, no'' to everything, pre-emptively, Gillis twists the screw a perverse turn further. ''I want to like everything until I'm convinced why not,'' he tells me. He and his friends will ''ride each other for not being into things. 'You didn't buy the new Katy Perry record? What? I've got two.' ''
''I don't want it to be ironic,'' he added. ''What it comes down to is being a fan of all this music. I just thought that it could all share one roof and be this really interesting mess.''
I asked him if, in addition to the Pirates and the Steelers, he ever felt any identification with another Pittsburgh institution, Andy Warhol, who blurred the usual distinctions between shallow and deep, trashy and sublime (and who broke through with a ''sample'' of Campbell's soup cans).
''I definitely see parallels,'' he said. ''He made work that was very visual. Very conceptually focused. But also art fans could easily dismiss it.''
It was the tour manager who cued up the introduction, based on an ELO song. Gillis triggered a sample: the singer Ciara breathing, which eventually morphed into ''Girl Talk, Girl Talk, Girl Talk, Girl Talk.'' The dancers charged out of the chute and onto the stage, and Gillis leaped up on his table, wearing a yellow sweatshirt and black pants. He shouted into the microphone, his hand raised in salute. The house lights went up brightly on the crowd, and everyone's hands were raised and moving forward, no one thinking about anything but that precise moment of gratification.
Leaf blowers blasted confetti into the darkness above their heads. Gillis gave them Black Sabbath overlaid with Ludacris, while two of his friends raced around the stage in U.S. Olympic basketball outfits, shooting rolls of toilet paper at the crowd and pumping their fists. Gillis went to a mash-up of Rihanna and Fugazi, reggae-tinged R.& B. and reggae-tinged punk. Rihanna sang, ''Tonight I'm a let you be the captain, tonight I'm a let you be a rider,'' and Fugazi's guitars, shorn of their context, turned into pure stadium-rock testosterone with a weird dash of Bollywood coming through in the rise and fall of Rihanna's flirtation. On the video screens, a cartoon baby ate a Burberry bag and regurgitated it, then ate a slice of pizza and regurgitated that. The girls were dancing with the girls, and the boys were dancing with the boys. There was a guy in a green bodysuit like the guy in the TV show ''It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.'' (Alas, he wasn't onstage, and he wasn't much of a dancer.) The toilet paper came spooling off a leaf blower to surprisingly poetic effect.
Gillis stood behind his table, bobbing violently up and down. He managed to turn a computerized performance into something that must feel almost exactly like playing rock 'n' roll in the ordinary way. Eight or 10 loops were going on his laptop's screen all at once, all of them on mute until he clicked them on -- sampled melodies, a cappella raps, amorphous sounds, ''pace keepers'' (breaths, pants, ''heys,'' ''yos''). Unless, like Gillis, you somehow have all of this memorized, you won't know until you click on a loop where it will be in its cycle -- beginning, middle or end. He had to account for the lag time between when he clicked the mouse and when the sound actually cut in. If he missed even slightly with a loop of rap, for example, the loop might be 64 beats long -- which could be almost a minute of music -- and for that minute all his rhythms would be misaligned. Triggering samples requires dexterity; three in a row is a feat. He could just let his laptop do the work, and 99 percent of his audience would never hear the difference. Gillis says he would hear the difference.
''I don't like to drink water during the show,'' he tells me. Even in a small club in summer, when he's sweating and about to drop, he sees it through the fan's eyes. If he were a fan, he wouldn't want to look up and see the performer drinking water.
The 71-minute party of ''All Day'' ended on an unexpectedly moving note -- a sad, wistful mash-up of UGK's ''One Day'' and the John Lennon chestnut ''Imagine.'' Murder, prison, drugs -- ''one day you here, but the next day you gone'' -- then those two main piano chords, C and F, as iconic as Gandhi. On the album it's a powerful statement, but when Gillis plays it live the crowd dutifully waves its hands, and it feels like a pastiche of something inspirational, something they've seen on TV. By including everything, it may be that for some people, Gillis is saying nothing, but at least he's not preaching. At most, he's suggesting.
Pop music, when new, is often discounted as ''just noise.'' But ''just noise'' often reveals itself to be much more. When you listen to the Sex Pistols now, more than 30 years after they were discounted as ''just noise,'' what strikes you most powerfully is how tight and melodic they were.
On the second night in Pittsburgh, the guy in the bodysuit wears silver instead of green, and he dances with such a kinetic flamboyance that I suspect he may be a different guy entirely. The toilet paper hangs in loops, awash in pink light, and Gillis's friends send balloons the size of exercise balls rocketing over the crowd. Here is the Pixies moment from ''Night Ripper'' they were all waiting for. Here is the big chorus from ''Lithium.'' Journey's ''Don't Stop Believin'.'' What keeps it from being cloying is the hip-hop -- hip-hop's violent imagery, its phallic boasting, its mad embrace of sex and death. Gillis, who loves hip-hop the way the Stones loved the blues, highlights its raunch. ''Are you going to kick me out if I take my shirt off?'' one of the girls onstage asks the crew.
It has grown into something absurdly bigger than Gillis ever dreamed. Something -- his inner Pittsburgher, perhaps -- keeps his focus not on the ''big'' but on the ''absurd.''
''When the Jordan brand is sending you free shoes,'' he tells me, ''it's pretty much the peak of success in my mind.''
Online Correction: January 7, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave the wrong address for the Illegal Art label's Web site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gregg Gillis, left, at a Girl Talk show in Pittsburgh last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA DIMMOCK) (MM38-MM39)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRIL TALK CONCERNT: JESSICA DIMMOCK/VII NETWORK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. IVES: EVERETT COLLECTION/CPL ARCHIVES. SCHAEFFER: JOHN SADOVY/BIPS/GETTY IMAGES) (MM40)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STOCKHAUSEN: ERICH AUERBACH/GETTY IMAGES. LENNON: MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES. K-TEL RECORDS. HERC: JANETTE BECKMAN/REDFERNS. PERRY: DAVID CORIO/REDFERNS) (MM41)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSWALD: MICHAEL REINHARDT. SHADOW: PETER PAKVIS/REDFERNS. AVALANCHES: SCOTT BARBOUR/GETTY IMAGES. DANGER MOUSE: GARY MILLER/FILMMAGIC. DJ HERO: AP PHOTO/ACTIVISION.) (MM42-MM43) GRAPHIC: The Recombinant DNA of the Mash-Up: Gregg Gillis's compositions are the latest in a long line of sonic marriages. (GRAPHIC BY WM. FERGUSON) (MM40-MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); POP & ROCK (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (57%); MILEY CYRUS (54%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (54%); GARY G MILLER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



256 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Psychic Rewards

BYLINE: By ROBIN ROMM. 
Robin Romm is the author of ''The Mercy Papers: A Memoir of Three Weeks.''

 BODY:
SANTA FE, N.M.
CHARLEY CASTEX doesn't look like a psychic, and so I don't say hello. In his crisp tan pants, leather jacket and hip spectacles, he could masquerade as a gallery owner, a finance guy, a restaurateur. He's early for our tea at Santa Fe's bohemian cafe, the Teahouse. Flames roar in a kiva fireplace, combating the cold gusts of air coming in through the door. I must look more like a writer than he does a psychic, because after studiously contemplating the magazine rack for 10 minutes, he approaches, squinting mildly. ''Are you Robin?'' he asks.
The man on the Web site had long hair, but Charley sports a close-cropped silver hairdo and neat beard. Should I be skeptical of a psychic who can't discern which woman he's supposed to meet with? I barely have time to think it before he says: ''I did have a hit on you, but you looked at me like I was wrong. And I didn't want to be that guy who goes up to women in cafes.'' 
We settle ourselves around a battered table. ''Should I call you a psychic?'' I ask. ''Is that the politically correct term?''
Charley shrugs. ''You can if you want,'' he says. ''That's the generally accepted term, but sixth-sense counselor is a more accurate depiction of the job. Psychic conjures these images of crystal balls and dark rooms. I find all that repulsive. I mean, that sort of thing is right up there with the oldest profession.'' He's delightfully candid, his blue eyes clear.
We're here to talk about how the economic downturn has affected the business of soothsaying, but I learn many interesting things before we get to this. For example, he does a lot of his work by phone, and he comes from a family of telephone company employees. I like the symmetry of this.
When he was 6 years old, his sister found him behind the piano, focusing on his third eye. ''My number is six and my color is red,'' he declared. I can imagine the sister wrinkling her nose, rolling her eyes. When he got a little older, he said, he could focus on teachers and make them forget he had detention.
Eventually we circle back to the idea of the economy. ''I get annoyed when people suggest my business must be booming these days,'' he says. From 1997 to 2007, Charley was pulling in almost six figures a year. ''Not bad for a guy with a home studio and a telephone,'' he says. He was living in Hawaii when the markets crashed. The price of gas skyrocketed, and caused food shortages on the islands. His practice fell by 40 percent to 50 percent. It took two years to stabilize. Business is better now, but not as good as it used to be.
The readings have changed in style and substance, too. He tells me about a married couple he used to consult with individually. Now the woman calls for herself but tacks on questions about her husband, who is out of work. People are trying to get more bang for their buck. It's more tiring to work like this, but he understands the rationale.
He tells me that it has become more difficult to deliver bad news. People have had enough bad news. These days, part of his job is to locate the silver lining.
Before the downturn, Charley's clients were primarily concerned with relationships and spiritual growth, but these days, he fields a lot of questions about practical matters. ''People are concerned about jobs and money,'' he says. This manifests not only in questions about career, but also in questions about place.
''People get sacked from a factory and their security is lost. They start to wonder if they have greater prospects in Ohio. People are willing to move on a dime now,'' he says. ''That didn't used to be true.''
Place is one of Charley's specialties. He will write the various possibilities on cards, and one will simply leap out at him.
I grow momentarily distracted. Should I ask him to read my cards? After all, I'm dogged by a feeling of profound dislocation. I'm living in a temporary sublet in Portland, Ore., visiting friends in Santa Fe and wishing I had all of my belongings that are still in storage in Las Cruces, N.M. I'm hiding a worn sweater underneath a recently purchased purple scarf in an effort to look a little more put together. If he read my cards, would Portland jump out? Las Cruces? Santa Fe? Or would I be surprised by a curveball like Florida or Guam? What if he influences me to do the wrong thing? Or worse, what if he tells me I will have to pack all my stuff again?
So instead of getting personal, I broaden my aim. In effect, I am doing exactly what the wife does when she asks for information on her husband, looking for the Costco-sized read. I ask Charley if he can tell us where we're heading as a country. He begins to shake his head before I can even finish the question.
''Readings are interpersonal,'' he says. ''A person has an energy field and I can tap into it. How can you tap into an energy field for an entire country?'' He looks at me gravely. ''Large insights like that have never been successfully given.''
Of course that makes perfect sense, but I find myself longing for a large insight anyway. After all, I can't help it -- I'm looking for the silver lining, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); HAWAII, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



257 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: An Accidental Mechanic, Now Unemployed

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
Khalilah El-Amin's apartment in Brooklyn is warm and inviting and smells like butter, the result of a batch of chocolate chip cookies she baked earlier. Her sons Emmanuel, 7, and Rakim, 8, play with toy trucks while Ms. El-Amin types on her laptop.
But under the surface, things are not so cozy. Her apartment is warm because she is using the oven to heat it. The boys have seen the inside of a shelter more than once, and probably have no idea how close they are to another. Ms. El-Amin is glued to her laptop, which was donated by Best Buy, because she is constantly looking for work.
''I try to face my fears,'' she said, ''even though I get a good cry out, because I don't know what's around the corner.''
Born in Brooklyn, Ms. El-Amin, 34, was raised in Brownsville until age 5, when her family moved to Fayetteville, N.C. In 1998, her brother was killed, and she said she lost the will to finish cosmetology school. She became a home health aide, but the low pay was discouraging. So she became a mechanic. 
''It's a funny story,'' she said. ''Everyone gets a kick out of it.''
Ms. El-Amin was on her way to her job as a hostess at an Outback Steakhouse when the brakes on her car began to fail. She managed to get herself to a mechanic -- but slammed her car into the brick wall of the car repair shop. The sympathetic owner fixed her brakes without charge and offered her a job.
Ms. El-Amin spent eight years as the shop's administrator. In that time, she said, ''I learned to change my own oil, fix my own brakes.'' The shop secured a lucrative contract with the United States military, and Ms. El-Amin's boss offered her a job fixing alternators, generators and starters on Humvees. A mechanic was born.
''A lot of people think it's funny -- 'You don't do that!' '' she said, laughing. ''What people fail to realize is, a woman's hands are a lot smaller. They can get into small places.''
Eventually, the military contracts dried up, and in search of another opportunity, she returned to Brooklyn. But she was unemployed for six months, and for a time she slept on the floor of an aunt's apartment in East New York. She eventually found an apartment and administrative work, but she was laid off in June. A mechanic shop on Atlantic Avenue near Nostrand Avenue wanted to hire her, she said, but there were no openings.
''I just want to be able to provide for my kids without worrying about losing my job,'' she said.
Rent on her apartment is $1,000 a month, and she was told she did not qualify for a Section 8 subsidy. When she applies for other entitlements, she said, she is met with blank stares because she does not qualify. ''Unless I want to keep having children, and get on welfare,'' she said, it seemed impossible to get help. ''But I'm not willing to do that.''
Ms. El-Amin receives $102 in weekly child support and $453 a month in food stamps. ''I don't know how I'm going to make this month's rent,'' she said.
Her sons did not have winter coats when they moved here, so last summer, Ms. El-Amin put two coats on layaway at Burlington Coat Factory. When work proved elusive, she could not afford to pick them up. They sat unclaimed for a month and a half.
Her sons were attending the Gary Klinsky Children's Center at Public School 149, which is run by Brooklyn Community Services, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, and a social worker there secured $202 from the fund for the coats.
In September, Ms. El-Amin's laptop stopped working, and she feared she would not have a way to look for work. Brooklyn Community Services intended to buy her a new computer at a Best Buy in Brooklyn, also with money from the Neediest Cases fund, but when store officials learned of this plan, they gave Ms. El-Amin the laptop.
Ms. El-Amin said her dream was to open a mechanic shop staffed entirely with female mechanics. Her reasoning is simple. ''With female mechanics,'' she said, ''most men would bring in cars that have nothing wrong with them.''
Despite her lack of resources and job offers -- at the moment, she has $428 to her name, ''and that's going to be gone as soon as I pay some bills,'' she said -- her pluck carries her through.
''I'm a firm believer that everything happens for a reason,'' Ms. El-Amin said. ''I just hope that reason's really good.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Khalilah El-Amin with her sons Emmanuel, left, and Rakim at their apartment. A slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $5,420,356 Recorded Thursday 0 Total $5,420,356 Last year to date $5,652,883 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (61%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (52%)

COMPANY: OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



258 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: PRIME NUMBER

 BODY:
32: The percentage increase in the United Nations' world food price index from June to December. Poor grain harvests and weather-related problems have pushed prices close to the crisis levels that provoked shortages and riots in poor countries three years ago. The index measures commodity prices on the world export market, which are generally far removed from supermarket prices in wealthy countries. (Prices in the United States are expected to rise only 2 percent to 3 percent this year.) But the situation is different in poor countries that rely on exports. ''We are at a very high level,'' said Abdolreza Abbassian, an economist for the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization. ''These levels in the previous episode led to problems and riots across the world.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); GRAIN FARMING (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



259 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Auburn's Kingmaker Isn't Sharing in the Moment

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL and KYLE WHITMIRE; Pete Thamel reported from Paradise Valley, Ariz., and Kyle Whitmire from Auburn and Birmingham, Ala.

 BODY:
PARADISE VALLEY, Ariz. -- With the Auburn football job open in December 1992, Mike Lude, then the university's athletic director, interviewed a stellar group of candidates: North Carolina's Mack Brown, Southern California's Larry Smith and West Virginia's Don Nehlen.
But Lude and the hiring committee were most impressed by a long-shot candidate, Terry Bowden, the little-known coach at Samford in Birmingham, Ala.
Years later, Lude found out why Bowden, who ultimately won the job, was so prepared for the interview. Bowden told him that the Auburn superbooster Bobby Lowder, who had sat in on other candidates' interviews, had prepped Bowden in his hotel room the night before his meeting with Auburn officials.
That is a prime example of the influence, mystery and ambition of Lowder, a member of Auburn's board of trustees who has donated tens of millions of dollars to the athletic department. A quiet man who rarely speaks to reporters, Lowder has remained in the shadows of Auburn University and its football program for decades while fans, the news media and the faculty speculate over how much power he really has. 
''I would describe him as a person who is very quiet, very much behind the scenes, yet very much involved,'' Lude said in a telephone interview. ''My wife one time said, 'You know, Mike, Bobby Lowder really acts like the Auburn Tigers are his professional football franchise.' ''
If No. 1 Auburn defeats No. 2 Oregon on Monday night for its first national football championship since 1957, it should be a crowning moment for Lowder. But some say his power has dwindled since his actions in 2003 helped land Auburn on academic probation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, a regional accreditation agency.
''In a strange way, there's enormous irony to the fact that if this had all happened five years ago, it would have been his ultimate triumph,'' said Wayne Flynt, a history professor emeritus at Auburn and noted Alabama historian. ''This is the final morsel of a very overindulgent banquet. I just don't know how much you enjoy it anymore.''
Lowder, 68, did not respond to a request for comment for this article.
Since being appointed to Auburn's board by Gov. George Wallace in 1983, Lowder has exerted undeniable influence. In 2009, in the midst of the financial crisis, he stepped down as the chairman and chief executive of Colonial BancGroup in 2009 after personally losing $160 million, according to reports. Prominent Auburn alumni, including the former football coach Pat Dye and the Alabama gambling magnate Milton E. McGregor, lost millions, too. McGregor, who was indicted last year by a federal grand jury on charges of public corruption, lost at least $19 million in Colonial stock.
Since the bank's implosion, investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities and Exchange Commission have sifted through Florida real estate deals involving Colonial, and a shareholder lawsuit has accused the bank of misleading investors into believing Colonial could secure money through the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
''For Lowder, this all has to be bittersweet,'' Flynt said by telephone. ''Perhaps more than anything else in his life he wants Auburn to win the national championship. Now he's been marginalized.''
A decade ago, Lowder's influence over Auburn was silent but immutable. The university scuttled its economics program, a department dear to one of Lowder's critics on the board of trustees. After the student newspaper began crusading against Lowder's influence, the university folded the journalism department into its communications program. When the trustees fired the university's president, William Muse, in 2001, faculty members and students blamed Lowder.
Muse, who said he no longer had contact with Lowder, tiptoed around the subject of what a national title would mean.
''Bobby has been very close to everything that has happened there, particularly with the football program,'' Muse said in a telephone interview. ''There's got to be a feeling of ownership, in a sense of identity with the program.''
Auburn, a state-financed university, has churned through presidents, athletic directors and football coaches during Lowder's time on the board, yet he has remained a constant. To try to weaken his influence over Auburn, alumni lobbied the Alabama Legislature to change the process for trustee appointments. But Lowder's connections in Montgomery, the state capital, particularly with Don Siegelman when he was governor and with a few key state senators, kept the alumni at bay.
Lowder's passion for football has sometimes been detrimental to the university. In 2003, William Walker and David Housel, who were then Auburn's president and athletic director, flew to Kentucky on Lowder's private plane to court Louisville's Bobby Petrino to replace Tommy Tuberville as Auburn's football coach. The discovery of the secret midseason mission erupted into a scandal Alabamians still refer to as Jetgate.
Lowder's power has waned since the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools threatened to strip Auburn of its accreditation, citing the meddlesome trustees and their interlocking ties to Lowder as a reason for probation.
Lowder's efforts to oust Tuberville as coach failed, though Tuberville was fired after the 2008 season and replaced by Gene Chizik, his former defensive coordinator.
''In my two years there, Mr. Lowder has done some great things for Auburn, but there hasn't been that much contact,'' Chizik said. ''I'm very appreciative of all he's done for Auburn University. Just don't see him much. He is busy with a lot of things going on in the business world.''
Lude said he alienated Lowder early in his tenure as athletic director. He recalled that Lowder sent a messenger to his office saying: ''Mr. Lowder can help you be very successful here. He would like you to touch base with him two or three times a week.'' Lude said that he declined to go behind the back of Muse, the university president, and that Lowder was cold to him from then on.
''One of the secretaries in the president's office told me, 'Mike, every time you and Mr. Muse are together, or when you're in his office, there's a telephone call to Montgomery that the two of you are talking,' '' Lude recalled.
Lowder was based in Montgomery at the time.
Athletic Director Jay Jacobs, who has avoided the news media in the week before the championship game, did not return a call seeking comment. The Auburn assistant coach Trooper Taylor said he only knew Lowder's name.
''I've never even met him,'' Taylor said. ''I couldn't even tell you what he looks like or any of that. I've seen buildings with his name on it, but I don't know him at all.''
Those who are familiar with Lowder say his passion for Tigers football is as strong as ever. ''He may jump off the bow of a ship if they lose,'' Lude said.
They are also skeptical that Lowder will fade away if he is not reappointed to the board when his term expires in April.
''Even if someone told me that he's not involved at all in Auburn,'' Lude said, ''I don't believe that he's not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: If Auburn beats Oregon for the national championship Monday night, it will be a belated triumph for Bobby Lowder, a trustee since 1983 who has influenced the football program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN C. COX/GETTY IMAGES)
 Some say Bobby Lowder's power has waned. (SP6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); INDICTMENTS (61%); CORRUPTION (60%); GRAND JURY (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: COLONIAL BANCGROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AUBURN UNIVERSITY (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT E LOWDER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (72%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



260 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Hanging On as the Boundaries Shift

BYLINE: By ARTHUR S. BRISBANE

 BODY:
FOUR months as public editor has given me a working list, perhaps only that, of the challenges The Times faces and the faults readers find in this most important of American newspapers. As a representative of the reader, I'd like to post that list today and invite you to consider it, then add to it as you will.
The blending of opinion with news is a good place to start. Although there is a distinct separation between the Editorial Page operation headed by Andrew Rosenthal and the news operation headed by Bill Keller, the news pages are laced with analytical and opinion pieces that work against the premise that the news is just the news.
The most glaring recent example that drew my eye was the Dec. 15 front-page column by David Leonhardt analyzing the debate over health care reform. The piece, a day-two follow-up to the news that a federal judge in Virginia had overturned the health care law's central provision, drew complaints from readers like Sheila R. Markin of Sarasota, Fla., who wrote: ''The Times does itself no good by putting these articles on the front page. It loses its status as an objective newspaper.'' 
She added, ''I want my newspaper to be known for its unbiased articles on the front page.'' Ms. Markin nailed it with this last sentence. I have no problem with Mr. Leonhardt's analysis; he's an accomplished economics writer and is entitled to his view. It was The Times's decision to place it on Page 1 that posed the difficulty, sending the message that The Times's take on health care is synonymous with Mr. Leonhardt's, which some see as progressive or liberal.
The issue of opinion versus news in the news pages is, I think, one of boundaries. In my experience, people value boundaries, rely on them and grow uncomfortable when they move.
And here's another form of boundary-slippage that readers complain about, one that is technology-driven. Once upon a time, the final print edition set a final, definitive version of a story and headline, leaving for posterity an immutable document of record, albeit one gathering dust in the newspaper morgue. No more. Now, appearing online, stories often undergo more frequent updates and headline changes. The same story often appears under distinctly different headlines in print, on the Web and on the other digital devices the Times feeds.
Amy Goldstein, a reader from Princeton, N.J., wrote to me that she found all this versioning problematic. ''How does the newspaper of record handle this?'' she asked, referring to changing versions of an obituary of the movie director Arthur Penn. ''I read something, and now poof, it's gone without a trace.''
While the requirements of digital publishing sometimes make things go ''poof,'' in other ways the digital environment commits things to a kind of immortality that itself is sometimes unwelcome.
In one case I wrote about, I argued that the paper had run roughshod in using the names of a 4-year-old and a 5-year-old who were named in a civil suit. But there is no fix for a problem like this after-the-fact. When it comes to the notion of expunging the identities, Times policy is strict: the electronic record is not to be changed. To me, this argues for taking far more care in protecting individuals' privacy in the first place.
Indeed, taking sufficient care on the front end of reporting and publishing is one of the most difficult challenges for The Times as news consumption shifts rapidly to digital venues like the Web, tablets and cellphones. The newspaper scored a clear victory in this respect with its handling of the WikiLeaks material. With its deep roster of experienced reporters and computer-aided reporting expertise, The Times carefully mounted a responsible assemblage of coverage.
Floyd Abrams, the prominent First Amendment lawyer, gives The Times's WikiLeaks work very high marks. And he notes that the stakes are huge, given the peril that news organizations face when dealing with secret material -- dealings that could potentially subject them to prosecution under the Espionage Act.
''Once the legislature or the judiciary gets the notion that the entities before it are reckless,'' Mr. Abrams warns, ''the less likely they are to give them the benefit of the doubt.''
Unfortunately, though, the pressure at The Times to produce in a high-speed news environment sometimes leads to much less careful work. You could ask Greg Brock, the senior editor who handles corrections for The Times. In 2010, he told me, The Times corrected 3,500 errors, most commonly spellings, dates and historical facts.
''What leads to these type errors?'' Mr. Brock said. ''Reporters and editors are rushed on deadline; they simply fail to double-check; the reporter misreads her notes. But many of these errors stem from Googling a name and taking the spelling -- or historical fact -- as gospel.''
Speed has other ill effects. For journalists charged with feeding the digital news flow, life is a barely sustainable cycle of reporting, blogging, tweeting, Facebooking and, in some cases, moderating the large volume of readers who comment online. I applaud these journalists for their commitment but worry that the requirements of the digital age are translating into more errors and eventual burnout.
Certainly, as Mr. Brock also notes, the digital age has spawned a growing chorus of bloggers who closely monitor The Times. ''A blogger points out an error, challenges something The Times has published and urges its followers to write The Times,'' he said. ''So they do so by the hundreds -- particularly on politically charged issues.''
Looking ahead, the twin demands of digital and print will remain for the foreseeable future (and p.s., it's not readily foreseeable). The Times will have to maintain deep investments in both domains while the media mix sorts itself out -- an expensive proposition that puts pressure on The New York Times Company's already slim profit margin.
So it seems that, as the New Year dawns, boundaries will continue to shift, the pressures will mount, and much will depend on the success of The Times's pending launch of its pay model -- the pay-to-use system designed to generate revenue for the currently free NYTimes.com.
One thing I know I can count on: The readers will weigh in. Their passionate view -- from outside the newspaper's 52-story bubble on New York's West Side -- provides an essential balance and perspective that helps keep The New York Times on track.
The public editor serves as the readers' representative. His conclusions are his own. E-mail: public@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); JUDGES (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



261 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Fear (Again) of Flying

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
In the mid-1970s, women began to take flight.
They got jobs, got their consciousness raised or got divorced. Sometimes their marriages evolved with them. Sometimes they just sort of took off -- ''finding themselves'' in new relationships, dropping out of family life, leaving latchkey children behind. These outward-bound adventures tended to happen in early midlife, the moment when, as Gail Sheehy put it in her 1974 mega-best-seller, ''Passages'': ''A woman had to make it happen -- whatever she hadn't yet achieved -- or settle for the bed she had made.'' The ''runaway wife,'' Sheehy declared, as she charted the ''midlife passage'' of her Silent Generation cohort, was ''one of today's fastest-growing phenomena.''
Today the daughters of these runaway moms, having arrived at the shores of middle age, are taking flight, too. But they're not, by and large, dumping their husbands. They're not looking to the job market with expectations of liberation. 
Instead, they're fleeing to yoga, imitating flight in the downward-gazing contortion called the crow position. They're striving, through exquisite new adventures in internal fine-tuning, to feel more deeply, live more meaningfully, better inhabit each and every moment of each and every day and attain ''a more superior, evolved state of being,'' as Claire Dederer puts it in her just-published book, ''Poser: My Life in Twenty-Three Yoga Poses,'' the latest installment in the burgeoning literature of postboomer-female midlife crisis.
''Poser'' tells of the author's attempt, via the calming effect of yoga, to transcend her anxious perfectionism by being more perfect herself. It follows a steady stream of books -- Dani Shapiro's yoga-infused ''Devotion,'' Melanie Gideon's ''Slippery Year,'' Gretchen Rubin's ''Happiness Project,'' Katrina Kenison's ''Gift of an Ordinary Day'' -- in which the trope of female midlife rebellion, the go-out-and-find-yourself exhortation that has floated in the popular imagination ever since ''Passages'' put the phrase ''midlife crisis'' on the cultural map, is turned on its head.
Here, there are no Isadora Wings (she was the heroine of Erica Jong's 1973 liberationist novel ''Fear of Flying''), no good little wives poised for naughty takeoff into the exciting wider world. There's no chafing at the ties that bind to home and family. Instead, there is a deep desire for rules and regularity -- ''a dream of order and contentment and beauty,'' as Dederer says -- and for the structures of ''daily obligations,'' as Shapiro imagines them, updating her father's life-structuring acts of Jewish religious observance through her yoga practice. There's no sense that personal liberation is to be found by taking a more active role in the public world.
Instead, making a home is re-encoded as a privilege, an accomplishment, even a form of freedom from the burdens and demands of the workplace. Kenison, finding self-liberation in a midlife journey toward ''my own quiet center,'' finds freedom in fleeing the wider world, not entering it more fully: ''to create . . . for all of us,'' she wrote of her husband and adolescent sons, ''a protected island, a quiet place from which we could hold the world and its busyness at bay for a while.''
In other words, the new ''narrative of liberation,'' as Dederer puts it, of the postboomer, ''postfeminist'' woman, the new incarnation of the '70s girl who could do anything, appears to lead right back into a performance-enhanced version of ''Mad Men''-era domestic fantasy. ''In response to my 1970s mom, I had become a 1950s housewife,'' Dederer writes.
And if all is not rosy in the paradise of home, if the angst of the midlife passage reveals cracks in the foundations, then fault is not found with the actual edifice.
The values and beliefs and practices that go into sustaining and maintaining the way right-thinking, highly educated, generally affluent folk go about living their lives today -- and that have made yoga a multibillion-dollar-a-year escape from the crush of modern life -- are not rejected. Rather, as ever, the women question themselves. They can always be -- must always be -- further perfected, their performance of selfhood more highly refined.
''I'd always vaguely expected to outgrow my limitations,'' Rubin, facing a pervasive ''midlife malaise,'' writes at the very start of ''The Happiness Project.'' ''How could I set a higher standard for myself as a wife, a mother, a writer, a friend?''
For many women, this inward-turnedness, this seeking of salvation in an ever-greater connection to home, and in a homebound sense of self, is a direct rebellion against the outward-bound trajectory that their own mothers took. The writer Caitlin Flanagan, for one, told in her 2006 essay collection, ''To Hell with All That: Loving and Loathing Our Inner Housewife,'' of having been ''truly miserable'' in the 1970s, when her mother one day put down her sponge, contemplated her kitchen and said, ''To hell with it,'' leaving home for a paid job and leaving Flanagan with a key to wear on a string around her neck. Dederer's mother, throwing off dutiful housewifery, took up with a hippie named Larry, leaving Dederer and her brother to shuttle across Puget Sound between parental households. ''When we became parents,'' she reflects, ''my brother and I shrunk our possibilities and lived our lives within the walls of our respective homes.''
For some of these women, such interiority seems to be a way to manage an unbearable sort of existential anxiety: a way to narrow the scope of life's challenges and demands -- ''as if there was a whip at my back,'' Shapiro says -- to the more manageable range of the in-and-out of your own breath.
It is not coincidental that Kenison's journey toward a better and deeper sense of home began after she lost her job. It is harder to look outward at a time of retrenchment and shrinking opportunities. It's hard to leap when there is no safety net to catch you; hard to venture far in a voyage of self-discovery if -- as is often the case in this age of large-scale male unemployment -- it is your job that provides the family's health insurance.
In a sense, it's a measure of how far couples have evolved that women in midlife are facing the same realities that men have always faced: you can't take off to ''find yourself'' when a family depends upon your salary and health benefits. Given the constraints of most family's lives these days, there really is nowhere to go but in.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMAIN BLANQUART FROM THE DETROIT FREE PRESS/AP) GRAPHIC: 44% FEWER American families have a STAY-AT-HOME parent today than in 1975. (SOURCE: BOSTON COLLEGE CENTER FOR WORK AND FAMILY) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (89%); YOGA (87%); FAMILY (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



262 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths CHLUSKI, JOHN J

 BODY:
CHLUSKI--John J. John J. Chluski, former Senior Vice President of ITT, died on January 3, 2011 after a long illness, in Boca Raton, FL. He was an instrumental part of the significant industrial growth of ITT Europe during the time of the legendary Harold Geneen and subsequently assisted Geneens successor, Rand Araskog, in the merger and subsequent sale of ITT Telecommunications to Alcatel of France. Fluent in four languages, he ran ITT's automotive and industrial companies throughout Europe. 
Mr. Chluski had quite a life before ITT. He was born in Warsaw, Poland in 1923 and educated in Poland, France and the UK. At the outbreak of WWII, he was captured by the Soviet army in 1939 and spent several months in a prison camp near Kieve, Ukraine. On his release he made his way by train and bicycle across Europe to North Africa where he survived in Algiers until Allied forces liberated the area in 1942. He volunteered to fight the Axis forces with the Americans and was subsequently selected and trained by the OSS as a paratrooper where he performed several drops behind enemy lines. After military service in WWII, he received a degree in economics at the City of London Polytechnic. He joined Harry Ferguson Ltd. in the UK as a shipping clerk in 1948. By 1968 and after working for the company in the UK, France and Canada, he became CEO of Massey Ferguson's North American operations based in Des Moines, Iowa. He joined ITT Corporation of New York, NY in 1972 and was placed in charge of their new automotive group based in Brussels, Belgium. Subsequently he was also given responsibilities of their Industrial Products and Electronic businesses, totaling over 50 companies and thousands of employees. In 1981, he was appointed Senior VP Executive Representative of the Chairman and CEO. In 1986 he was key negotiator for the sale of ITT's world telecommunications business to GCE (Alcatel). He retired as an employee at the age of 65 from ITT in 1986, but continued as an advisor to the Chairman and CEO of ITT until 1994. He was also appointed as Advisor to Chairman of Marceau Investissements based in Paris, France from 1988-2002. During this time, he also served as Chairman of the Advisory Board of Alexander Proudfoot Company worldwide from 1988-1995 and for IMT Consulting of Las Vegas, NV from 1996-2001. Most recently he served as an advisor to Goodmark USA of Boca Raton, Mr. Chluski is survived by his wife Dorene, son John, daughter-in-law Melissa and his granddaughter, Chloe, all of Boca Raton, FL. A memorial service will take place on Thursday, January 13 at St. Joan of Arc Catholic Church in Boca Raton at 11:00am.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

COMPANY: ITT CORP (85%); ALEXANDER PROUDFOOT CO (63%)

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (91%); BELGIUM (90%); UKRAINE (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



263 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 2822 words

HEADLINE: The 373-Hit Wonder

BYLINE: By ZACHARY LAZAR. 
Zachary Lazar's most recent books are ''Sway'' (2008) and ''Evening's Empire: The Story of My Father's Murder'' (2009).

 BODY:
Imagine old, baldPete Townshend shuffling gingerly onstage as a synth burbles up behind him -- ''Let My Love Open the Door.'' Now imagine the rapper Pimp C already on that stage, in a white fur suit and hat, holding up four fingers to show off his bling. A kick line of girls in black minishorts walks it out for DJ Unk, who's rapping about a kick line of girls, then Levon Helm appears on a drum riser to chirp out ''The Weight.'' Also onstage: Jay-Z, Black Sabbath, Rick Springfield, Kesha, Bruce Springsteen, Miley Cyrus, the Ramones and Tupac and Biggie Smalls (both back from the dead) and hundreds more. In the audience are a few thousand fans jammed together beneath a blinding light show, waving their arms as rolls of toilet paper and explosions of confetti fall around them. You sense they're feeling the same freedom, daring and camaraderie that they might at a house party when someone's parents are away. This is pretty much the state of affairs at a Girl Talk show these days.
Girl Talk is the stage name of the 29-year-old Pittsburgh native Gregg Gillis. 
In November, Gillis and his label, Illegal Art, released the fifth Girl Talk album, ''All Day,'' as a free download. Within 24 hours, several sites had posted annotations of ''All Day,'' cataloging the samples on the album --there are 373 of them. Download traffic was so heavy that MTV News ran the headline ''Girl Talk Apologizes for Breaking the Internet'' -- hyperbole, but not far from the truth. Illegal-art.net reports that ''All Day'' was downloaded so often that the servers crashed. In Girl Talk's honor, Pittsburgh declared Dec. 7, 2010, ''Gregg Gillis Day.''
All this excitement is focused on a performer whose instrument is a laptop. Girl Talk songs are mash-ups: chunks of other people's songs combined into new ones: the Rolling Stones and the rapper Wiz Khalifa, Ice Cube and Devo. The mash-ups sound ironic to the ironically inclined and like pure joy to the joyfully inclined, and for both camps they're fun to dance to. These are not just a collection of other people's hooks; Girl Talk has created a new kind of hook that encompasses 50 years of the revolving trends of pop music. Sometimes cynicism is a hook, sometimes the hook is humor, angst, irony, aggression, sex or sincerity. Girl Talk's music asserts all these things at once.
On Dec. 3, Girl Talk inaugurated the new Stage AE concert hall in Pittsburgh, filling the arena on two consecutive nights. (Despite the fact that there are no instruments onstage, Girl Talk can sell tickets as fast as some of the stars he samples.)
On his last tour, Gillis kept a travel diary. He interviewed fans on camera, people who waited for hours in the cold to get into his show, but when he started asking questions, it was clear they didn't recognize him. Gillis, incognito without trying to be, asked some fans where he could find some tickets to his own performance. They marveled at his cluelessness. ''Do you know how hard it is to get those?'' they asked.
''There's a chance I'm going to the after-party, and no one's going to recognize me,'' he told me.
I opened a backstage door at Stage AE and found 30 or so fans crammed into a brightly lighted hallway like cattle in a chute -- they had been selected to dance onstage that night. On previous tours, Gillis invited everybody onstage to dance. The shows are too big now, so Gillis sends some of his crew-member friends out to the audience to choose dancers, including a guy named Erik that night, to join him. Before each show, Gillis swaddles his laptop in Glad plastic wrap and Scotch tape to protect it from the beer and sweat of the fans onstage with him.
Erik and a friend drove all the way from New York for the show, and they wore black and gold, the colors of Pittsburgh's sports teams. Erik bounced on his feet, and the sweat was already starting to glaze his forehead. ''I want a leaf blower,'' someone shouted.
In the dressing room, Gillis's friends talked about LeBron James and his infamous return to Cleveland as a member of the Miami Heat. Gillis is small and genial, his eyes alive with humor. He discussed the set list, the lighting and the double encore with his tour manager -- ''They should wonder if there's going to be one or two'' -- then talked about his plan to get matching Girl Talk Air Jordans for everyone on the crew, including the bus driver, imagining a fan seeing that and having his day made.
Minutes before showtime, I found Gillis alone in a kind of abandoned break room. His baseball cap had been replaced by a sweatband, and his custom basketball shoes -- Nikes that really do say ''Girl Talk'' -- sat on a folding chair beside him. He wrapped athletic bandages carefully around both of his feet: for the next 70 minutes on stage, he would dance so hard that he would be sick to his stomach afterward, like a marathon runner. The intensity with which he dances occasionally makes his feet bleed. He can't stop his feet pounding, his head bobbing. Before he found the right kind of table, adjusted to the proper height, he got dark bruises on both thighs from crashing against it in his trance.
It was the first time he had played Pittsburgh in more than a year. His parents and friends were all there, the people who knew him before this strange project turned into something that amounts to news. There was a brand new stage set with LED screens and a live video feed that had not been tested. Gillis, a perfectionist and workaholic, was up the previous two nights preparing new spins on the material from ''All Day.'' He never wants the audience to hear the same thing twice. The music he makes onstage is made in real time -- it's not a matter of just pressing ''play'' and standing back, pantomiming. He has to carry in his memory the contents of hundreds of different sample loops, and while he dances he triggers these at precise moments with clicks of the mouse, developing an evolving scramble that requires timing, agility, inventiveness and a head for math.
What you see before the show and at the after-party is not the stage persona, Girl Talk, but Gregg Gillis, a former biomedical engineer whose musical roots are not in party music but in the obscure corners of avant-garde noise. One of the projects he helped develop in his scientist days, he told me, was a means of stimulating peoples' inner ears to help them sleep. In science, he used many of the same skills -- researching and compiling data, cataloging it, recombining it -- that he now uses to make his music. You could say there's a certain Andy Kaufman element to what Gillis does: the meticulous sampler transforming himself into the manic performer. But there's nothing cynical about Gillis alone in that room, bandaging his feet.
You might expect that Girl Talk's success has made Gillis a legal target. His sound collages are radically different from their sources, far more than the sum of their parts, but to an entertainment lawyer they might look like a lawsuit. Or, in the words of Lawrence Lessig, author of ''Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy,'' ''a gold mine.''
To secure permission to use the 373 samples on ''All Day'' would cost, Gillis estimates, millions of dollars. Some labels would refuse, others would draw him into endless negotiation. But he has never been sued. No one has ever asked him to stop doing what he's doing. One of the acts he samples on ''All Day,'' the Toadies, proudly put a link to Girl Talk on their home page.
''We don't realize how much the notion of creation has changed for people under the age of 25,'' Lessig says. He suggests that in 20 years the sampling issue will seem ''completely bizarre.'' Any Girl Talk show provides a vivid preview of what the future might look like. It will look like leaf blowers showering confetti on a crowd going crazy to an unlikely pairing of Soulja Boy, the hip-hop idol, with the avant-garde electronica of Aphex Twin.
The act now known as Girl Talk began in places like Pittsburgh's Millvale Industrial Theater -- ''a concrete block in the middle of nowhere with a space heater'' where Gillis as a teenager used to go to hear noise. Japanese noise, Austrian noise, strange, severe antimusic. Gillis was steeped in Nirvana and Public Enemy, and the paradigm was already established in his mind: anything that mattered in music (if not in everything) involved darkness, angst and confrontation. The teenage connoisseur of the unusual or the abrasive -- the weirdo who is simply drawn to this stuff -- almost invariably develops a siege mentality: ''No one else gets what I like and hence everyone is a moron. Not only that, but now that I'm alienated, I'm going to say no to everything that ordinary people like, even if I secretly like it myself.''
In high school, he used to put up a life-size cutout of Christina Aguilera at shows and play 12 scratched CDs at once or shoot fireworks or smash a bunch of TVs -- and he might have three people watching in the dark with their arms crossed. In a space like that -- playing to an art crowd -- it occurred to Gillis that going pop would be a ''good joke.'' He started running onstage like a lost member of Wham!, screaming and tossing confetti, and the same three people would still be standing there. He put together a kind of dance party, filling up the stage with a group of costumed sidekicks who did ''superbasic'' routines that Gillis choreographed. College lightened him up: girls, parties and dancing. He began to incorporate beats and rhythm. ''I'm yelling at the audience to loosen up and dance, but I'm playing noise music,'' he remembers. ''Would it really be so wrong to have beats?'' He would go to rock clubs and get heckled by ''30 guys smoking cigarettes and chugging beers while I played a Madonna remix.'' Twenty people in Boston, zero in Providence. (''The guy who booked the show forgot he booked it.'') He would go on and anger the audience with his silly show, then the second act would do a punk thing and fights would inevitably break out. ''My older crowd were not the kind of people who would pay $30 for any concert,'' he says. ''I was trying to be this sore thumb of pop. I was almost poking fun at the idea of a rock-and-roll laptop show.''
But by 2006, people were starting to take seriously what had started as Gillis's avant-pop joke. Pitchfork, the influential indie-rock Web site, gave ''Night Ripper,'' Girl Talk's third release, an out-of-the-blue rave review. Girl Talk was suddenly headlining the Mercury Lounge in New York. ''I was weirded out,'' he says of that night. ''These people actually wanted to see this laptop show. I used to pretend that the audience was having fun. After six years of pretending, the audience was now actually having fun.''
Where the hipster says ''no, no, no'' to everything, pre-emptively, Gillis twists the screw a perverse turn further. ''I want to like everything until I'm convinced why not,'' he tells me. He and his friends will ''ride each other for not being into things. 'You didn't buy the new Katy Perry record? What? I've got two.' ''
''I don't want it to be ironic,'' he added. ''What it comes down to is being a fan of all this music. I just thought that it could all share one roof and be this really interesting mess.''
I asked him if, in addition to the Pirates and the Steelers, he ever felt any identification with another Pittsburgh institution, Andy Warhol, who blurred the usual distinctions between shallow and deep, trashy and sublime (and who broke through with a ''sample'' of Campbell's soup cans).
''I definitely see parallels,'' he said. ''He made work that was very visual. Very conceptually focused. But also art fans could easily dismiss it.''
It was the tour manager who cued up the introduction, based on an ELO song. Gillis triggered a sample: the singer Ciara breathing, which eventually morphed into ''Girl Talk, Girl Talk, Girl Talk, Girl Talk.'' The dancers charged out of the chute and onto the stage, and Gillis leaped up on his table, wearing a yellow sweatshirt and black pants. He shouted into the microphone, his hand raised in salute. The house lights went up brightly on the crowd, and everyone's hands were raised and moving forward, no one thinking about anything but that precise moment of gratification.
Leaf blowers blasted confetti into the darkness above their heads. Gillis gave them Black Sabbath overlaid with Ludacris, while two of his friends raced around the stage in U.S. Olympic basketball outfits, shooting rolls of toilet paper at the crowd and pumping their fists. Gillis went to a mash-up of Rihanna and Fugazi, reggae-tinged R.& B. and reggae-tinged punk. Rihanna sang, ''Tonight I'm a let you be the captain, tonight I'm a let you be a rider,'' and Fugazi's guitars, shorn of their context, turned into pure stadium-rock testosterone with a weird dash of Bollywood coming through in the rise and fall of Rihanna's flirtation. On the video screens, a cartoon baby ate a Burberry bag and regurgitated it, then ate a slice of pizza and regurgitated that. The girls were dancing with the girls, and the boys were dancing with the boys. There was a guy in a green bodysuit like the guy in the TV show ''It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.'' (Alas, he wasn't onstage, and he wasn't much of a dancer.) The toilet paper came spooling off a leaf blower to surprisingly poetic effect.
Gillis stood behind his table, bobbing violently up and down. He managed to turn a computerized performance into something that must feel almost exactly like playing rock 'n' roll in the ordinary way. Eight or 10 loops were going on his laptop's screen all at once, all of them on mute until he clicked them on -- sampled melodies, a cappella raps, amorphous sounds, ''pace keepers'' (breaths, pants, ''heys,'' ''yos''). Unless, like Gillis, you somehow have all of this memorized, you won't know until you click on a loop where it will be in its cycle -- beginning, middle or end. He had to account for the lag time between when he clicked the mouse and when the sound actually cut in. If he missed even slightly with a loop of rap, for example, the loop might be 64 beats long -- which could be almost a minute of music -- and for that minute all his rhythms would be misaligned. Triggering samples requires dexterity; three in a row is a feat. He could just let his laptop do the work, and 99 percent of his audience would never hear the difference. Gillis says he would hear the difference.
''I don't like to drink water during the show,'' he tells me. Even in a small club in summer, when he's sweating and about to drop, he sees it through the fan's eyes. If he were a fan, he wouldn't want to look up and see the performer drinking water.
The 71-minute party of ''All Day'' ended on an unexpectedly moving note -- a sad, wistful mash-up of UGK's ''One Day'' and the John Lennon chestnut ''Imagine.'' Murder, prison, drugs -- ''one day you here, but the next day you gone'' -- then those two main piano chords, C and F, as iconic as Gandhi. On the album it's a powerful statement, but when Gillis plays it live the crowd dutifully waves its hands, and it feels like a pastiche of something inspirational, something they've seen on TV. By including everything, it may be that for some people, Gillis is saying nothing, but at least he's not preaching. At most, he's suggesting.
Pop music, when new, is often discounted as ''just noise.'' But ''just noise'' often reveals itself to be much more. When you listen to the Sex Pistols now, more than 30 years after they were discounted as ''just noise,'' what strikes you most powerfully is how tight and melodic they were.
On the second night in Pittsburgh, the guy in the bodysuit wears silver instead of green, and he dances with such a kinetic flamboyance that I suspect he may be a different guy entirely. The toilet paper hangs in loops, awash in pink light, and Gillis's friends send balloons the size of exercise balls rocketing over the crowd. Here is the Pixies moment from ''Night Ripper'' they were all waiting for. Here is the big chorus from ''Lithium.'' Journey's ''Don't Stop Believin'.'' What keeps it from being cloying is the hip-hop -- hip-hop's violent imagery, its phallic boasting, its mad embrace of sex and death. Gillis, who loves hip-hop the way the Stones loved the blues, highlights its raunch. ''Are you going to kick me out if I take my shirt off?'' one of the girls onstage asks the crew.
It has grown into something absurdly bigger than Gillis ever dreamed. Something -- his inner Pittsburgher, perhaps -- keeps his focus not on the ''big'' but on the ''absurd.''
''When the Jordan brand is sending you free shoes,'' he tells me, ''it's pretty much the peak of success in my mind.''
Online Correction: January 7, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave the wrong address for the Illegal Art label's Web site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gregg Gillis, left, at a Girl Talk show in Pittsburgh last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA DIMMOCK) (MM38-MM39)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRIL TALK CONCERNT: JESSICA DIMMOCK/VII NETWORK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. IVES: EVERETT COLLECTION/CPL ARCHIVES. SCHAEFFER: JOHN SADOVY/BIPS/GETTY IMAGES) (MM40)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STOCKHAUSEN: ERICH AUERBACH/GETTY IMAGES. LENNON: MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES. K-TEL RECORDS. HERC: JANETTE BECKMAN/REDFERNS. PERRY: DAVID CORIO/REDFERNS) (MM41)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSWALD: MICHAEL REINHARDT. SHADOW: PETER PAKVIS/REDFERNS. AVALANCHES: SCOTT BARBOUR/GETTY IMAGES. DANGER MOUSE: GARY MILLER/FILMMAGIC. DJ HERO: AP PHOTO/ACTIVISION.) (MM42-MM43) GRAPHIC: The Recombinant DNA of the Mash-Up: Gregg Gillis's compositions are the latest in a long line of sonic marriages. (GRAPHIC BY WM. FERGUSON) (MM40-MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); POP & ROCK (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (57%); MILEY CYRUS (54%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (54%); GARY G MILLER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



264 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 8630 words

HEADLINE: The 41 Places to Go in 2011

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
From the beaches of Mexico to the wilds of Kurdistan, the places on this year's list take you to the end of the world and back.
1. Santiago, Chile Undaunted by an earthquake, a city embraces modern culture.
Less than a year after an 8.8-magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc in Chile, its capital, Santiago, has largely recovered, the economy continues to grow, and tourism is in an upswing.
Though the quake, which caused hundreds of casualties, was centered more than 200 miles away, many of Santiago's older buildings were damaged, including the Museum of Fine Arts.
But the earthquake last year -- and another in Chile last week that caused more panic than damage -- seems to have only briefly paused a cultural shift that had begun to take hold in the city. Known as a buttoned-up place, Santiago has in recent years added modern museums, smartly designed hotels and sophisticated restaurants. The city has become decidedly more vibrant. 
This year, it has even been chosen as the first foreign city to host a rather unbuttoned event: Lollapalooza. The 20-year-old American music festival picked Santiago for its first overseas outing because of its open space and the variety of cultural offerings, and because locals have a passion for contemporary music, said Lollapalooza's founder, the musician Perry Farrell. The festival takes place in April in O'Higgins Park.
This musical awakening owes much to the government's investment in the arts. The new Centro Gabriela Mistral, for example, a 200,000-square-foot center made of glass and weathering steel, has a varied calendar of concerts, dance performances, plays and art exhibits.
Perhaps the most remarkable cultural space to open in the last few years is the Museo de la Moda, a privately financed fashion museum inside a revamped 1960s Modernist mansion. It has a permanent collection of nearly 10,000 pieces of couture and memorabilia (of which 800 are typically on display), including a light-blue jacket worn in 1966 by John Lennon and a black strapless gown worn in 1981 by Diana, Princess of Wales.
Luxury hotels are not new to Santiago, but when the W opened in 2009, it was the first to feature truly modern design. The recently opened Aubrey is equally chic and much more intimate. With an attractive mix of vintage and new furniture (Tom Dixon lamps, 19th-century Parisian rugs, tufted leather sofas), the 15-room property raised the bar for boutique lodgings in the city. It occupies two renovated residences in the Bellavista neighborhood, a creative district where Lollapalooza's fans would feel right at home. -- PAOLA SINGER
2. San Juan Islands, Wash. Bold-face restaurateurs vie with unspoiled nature. Nature wins.
The big draw for the San Juan Islands this year just might be its dining scene. Blaine Wetzel, a former chef at the wildly acclaimed Copenhagen restaurant Noma, took the reins at Willows Inn on Lummi Island (due to reopen on Feb. 10), while Lisa Nakamura, who has trained with big-name chefs like Thomas Keller, opened Allium on Orcas Island.
But the eternal lure of the San Juans -- what brings chefs out as well as tourists -- are the landscapes. On islands from Shaw to Decatur, pastoral hills give way to broody forests and scrappy escarpments that overlook fjordlike inlets. Thanks to an active land preservation effort by organizations like the San Juan County Land Bank, each year new areas are protected from logging or unruly development, and in turn provide fresh terrain for the public to explore.
Last year, the San Juan Island National Historic Park grew by 312 acres with the purchase of densely forested Mitchell Hill. On Lopez Island, a 50-year lease signed by the state Department of Natural Resources in 2009 now protects the Lopez Hill area from logging; a web of public trails winds past mossy conifers and madrona trees with peeling cinnamon-red bark. And some smaller parcels have the air of a secret about them, like the spectacular Watmough Bay Preserve on Lopez, with a trail that leads to a strip of beach on a wooded inlet, its moody water as magically lighted as a Bierstadt painting. -- SARA DICKERMAN
3. Koh Samui, Thailand A toned-down version of Phuket, heavy on wellness and food.
As Thailand's third-largest island, Koh Samui isn't exactly off the radar. But the 95-square-mile tropical gem in the southern Gulf of Thailand, whose white sand beaches, abundant coral reefs and seas of palm trees were once a backpackers' secret, has emerged as the stylish luxury alternative to crowded Phuket. Last month's much-anticipated opening of the W Retreat Koh Samui on a private beach along the island's northern shore was the chic hotel brand's premiere in Southeast Asia. July saw the arrival of the 78 pool-villas at the Banyan Tree Samui and its bay-facing spa, which includes the island's first hydrotherapy facility. It is burnishing Koh Samui's reputation as one of Thailand's top wellness destinations, along with the yoga and detox center at the Moroccan-inspired boutique resort Absolute Sanctuary, which turns three in April.
Local restaurants have kept pace, luring international chefs who are transforming Koh Samui into an eating destination as well. Newcomers include H-Bistro at the Hansar Samui resort, where the French-Mediterranean and Thai menu was conceived by a former private chef to the Jordanian royal family, and Orgasmic by Chef Wally, which serves innovative cocktails and dishes like cocoa butter Hokkaido scallops and freshly caught white snapper with pecan-celery mash. The local scene goes into full swing at the weekly Sunday Sessions under the soaring thatched roofs at loungey Beach Republic, whose brunch, seafood barbecue and sunset D.J.'s are quickly becoming famous. -- NAOMI LINDT
4. Iceland Where a country's hardships are a visitor's gain.
Iceland's economic crash has had an upside, at least for tourists. After the devaluation of the krona that followed the country's 2008 financial crisis, the breathtakingly beautiful island is a lot more affordable, meaning that a hotel room that was $200 before the crash might cost $130 now.
While traditionally a must-see for nature tourists -- who come for thermal springs, glaciers, volcanic landscapes and the Northern Lights -- Iceland is stepping up the cultural offerings with Reykjavik's new Harpa-Reykjavik Concert Hall and Conference Centre, a symphony and opera house whose stunning glass facade was designed in collaboration with the Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson. Opening ceremonies begin in May, with performances by the Iceland Symphony Orchestra, Icelandic Opera and local rock bands. Another draw is the third annual DesignMarch (in March), a festival that showcases Icelandic design, from clothing and textiles to furniture. And the Iceland Airwaves music festival, every October, is perennially cool. -- SALLY McGRANE
5. Milan A reborn cathedral joins fashion-forward galleries and hotels.
Compared with the Italian troika of tourism -- Florence, Venice and Rome -- Milan is often an afterthought. But with novel, eye-catching design emerging around the city, that should soon change.
For years, unsightly scaffolding obscured the Milan Cathedral; now that most of it has been dismantled, the newly scrubbed Gothic masterpiece, also known as the Duomo, is worth a fresh look. Across the piazza, the city's collection of 20th-century art is now showcased at the Museo del Novecento, which opened in December in the restored Palazzo dell'Arengario.
Outside the historic center, former factories have been transformed into design studios, old warehouses have been repurposed as unconventional art venues, and galleries are packed with avant-garde works. The eclectic Spazio Rossana Orlandi gallery displays the latest creations from emerging designers, while large-scale art installations from acclaimed international artists like Anselm Kiefer are exhibited at HangarBicocca, a cavernous art space that re-opened last year.
And though fashion followers still flock to the wish-filled windows of Miu Miu and Marni, fashion in Milan now extends beyond retail and runways. Arguably the most fashionable addition is the Hotel Milano Scala, which opened last year in a renovated 19th-century mansion singing the eco-chic promise of ''zero-emissions hospitality.'' In a country where green directives are not yet widespread, it proves that Milan is, once again, on the cutting edge. -- INGRID K. WILLIAMS
6. Republic of Georgia A rustic ski wonderland on the verge of discovery.
Ski buffs don't usually think of Soviet Georgia when planning their next backcountry outing. But some ambitious plans in the Caucasus are trying to change that fast. Tucked between the Black and Caspian seas and smattered with mountains, Georgia has the kind of terrain adventurous skiers yearn for: peaks reaching 16,000 feet, deep valleys and largely untouched slopes. Known best for spectacular off-piste and heli-skiing, Bakuriani and Gudauri -- each a short drive from Tbilisi -- saw 30,000 visitors in 2009 and are expanding fast.
And now, in efforts spearheaded by the Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili, the ski-resort bug is spreading even further. In Mestia, the first groomed slopes of a new resort opened in December. Also earmarked as a winter hot spot is Goderdzi pass, which can have snow coverage six months a year. -- KIMBERLY BRADLEY
7. London Anticipating the 2012 Olympics, a slew of new hotels and restaurants.
There is never a bad time to go to London. But this year may be better than most: the 2012 Summer Olympic Games has prompted the construction of 12,000 hotel rooms, and several hotels that have been around for a while are burnishing their appeal with notable new restaurants.
Many are opening well in advance of the games. The 192-room Four Seasons London at Park Lane reopens late this month after a two-year-plus gut renovation that added a penthouse spa overlooking Hyde Park and new restaurant seating in a private garden. The new W London Leicester Square arrives in February, conforming to British tastes with a trendy take on high tea. In April the Corinthia Hotel London reinvents a vintage 1855 hotel, and in May the St. Pancras Renaissance Hotel London makes its debut in a cathedral-like Victorian hotel with a restaurant by the Michelin-starred chef Marcus Wareing.
Other hotels are adding restaurants from renowned chefs. This spring, the May Fair Hotel will become home to the chef Silvena Rowe's Eastern Mediterranean restaurant, Quince.
Expect hotel and restaurant bookings to be tight on and around April 29, date of the royal wedding, for which London tourism officials expect a pre-Olympics wave of visitors. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
8. Loreto, Mexico A beach hideaway with sport fishing gets a luxury resort.
Long known for sport fishing, Loreto, on Baja California Sur's eastern coast, is poised to become one of Mexico's next luxury destinations.
On Wednesday, Villa Group Resorts, one of Mexico's largest privately owned hotel groups, will open a $60 million Villa del Palmar resort with three restaurants, a 20,000-square-foot turtle-shaped pool and 150 suites from $250 to $1,500 a night. The resort is the first phase of an 1,800-acre development, Danzante Ba. It will add seven resort hotels, restaurants and a Rees Jones golf course.
Loreto also has longstanding attractions to tout. It recently started a public relations campaign, with help from the Mexico Tourism Board, to highlight its colonial architecture, deserted beaches and marine life. Founded in 1697 by Jesuit missionaries, Loreto is home to the historic Mission of Our Lady Loreto, one of the first ''California'' missions. The baroque Mission of San Javier can be found nearby in the Sierra de la Giganta Mountains.
Visitors can take day trips to see prehistoric rock art in the Sierra de San Francisco region of Baja California between Loreto and Bahia de Los Angeles. Five islands that make up the Loreto Bay National Marine Park, which covers 797 square miles in the Sea of Cortez, offer extensive snorkeling, kayaking, hiking, whale-watching and scuba-diving opportunities. The area is home to more than 800 species of marine life, including six-foot-long Humboldt squid. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
9. Park City, Utah Beyond the film festival, a growing group of top-tier resorts.
Many film aficionados have been lured to Park City for the annual Sundance festival, missing the slopes entirely, which is a shame. This year, new hotels, expanded terrain and events at area ski resorts make on-mountain exploration imperative. Last month, at Deer Valley, Montage opened a 220-room Craftsman-style midmountain lodge ; it offers ski-in, ski-out access, gas fireplaces in every room, and a spa.
Other recent openings include the St. Regis Deer Crest, the Waldorf Astoria Park City and the Hyatt Escala Lodge.
Over at the Canyons Resort, 300 acres of new skiing and snowboarding terrain includes 10 new trails that range from intermediate to expert gladed tree runs. The resort is also introducing what's billed as the first heated chair lift in North America and opening an apres-ski ''beach,'' an outdoor gathering place with beach-style lounge chairs, food and cocktail stations and expansive views of the mountainside. -- BONNIE TSUI
10. Cali, Colombia Cafe culture is on the rise while salsa fuels the night life.
Cali has always felt like the grittier stepsister of Medellin, but tucked amid the colonial homes of the barrios of San Antonio or Granada are a number of new jewelry boutiques, low-key cafes and salsotecas teeming with crowds as sexy as any in South America.
Salsa remains Cali's lifeblood. If the dance floors of Tin Tin Deo or Zaperoco are too full, try La Fuente, a pint-size bar jammed with sweaty students who spill out onto the street most nights. Or, follow the sounds of Latin jazz to Guayusa, just next door. Those with serious salsa chops hitch a cab out of town to the suburb of Juanchito, whose dance floors do not fill up until after midnight (but go in a group, as this section gets dicey at those hours). Also be sure to check out a performance of Delirio, the monthly cabaret that is part Cirque du Soleil, part salsa clinic. -- LIONEL BEEHNER
11. The Danube From Budapest to the Black Sea, new cruises on a storied river.
For years, high-end river travel in Europe has focused on western European waterways like the Rhine and the Rhone. But recent developments have brought the high life to the principal river of central and eastern Europe: the Danube.
Last year, California's Viking River Cruises launched new cruises on the river, and in 2011, another tour company, Tauck, will introduce riverboat trips from swinging Budapest to the Black Sea. Meanwhile, the Kempinski Hotel River Park recently opened on the Danube's banks in the Slovakian capital of Bratislava. The blue Danube threads its way through four capitals (Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest and Belgrade) and touches 10 countries, passing by majestic scenery, outrageously great wine regions and castles, fortifications and ruins dating back centuries. What better way to see all these treasures than from the water? -- EVAN RAIL
12. Niseko, Japan An Aspen emerges in Asia, with luxury to spare.
It was the snow that first brought the Australian ski bums here, the great powder blown in by Siberian cold fronts. Then chefs and designers discovered that this sleepy town on Japan's northern Hokkaido island was actually a lovely spot in itself, with natural hot springs, family-owned inns and spectacular views of impossibly symmetrical Mount Yotei. Now with the development of stylish restaurants and a network of fashion-forward chalets (like the foodie must stop Kamimura and the 10 zenlike lofts at Suiboku), the well-heeled are arriving on direct flights from all over Asia to Sapporo's New Chitose Airport, creating the region's answer to Aspen and Courchevel.
Expect that to intensify when a high-speed train line, now planned to begin service in 2015, cuts the trip up from Tokyo to under four hours. This month the fully revamped 200-room Green Leaf Niseko Village, stylishly renovated by the New York-based Alexandra Champalimaud, is reopening its doors, while a Banyan Tree and Tadao Ando-designed Capella complex are in the pipeline. -- ONDINE COHANE
13. Oahu Hawaii's most developed island adds resorts and attractions.
The nature that abounds on Maui and rural Kauai often overshadows the attractions on Oahu, the most populous Hawaiian island. But this year Oahu offers travelers fresh incentive in the form of name-brand resorts and other tourist attractions.
Disney plans to open Aulani, a 359-room resort 17 miles west of the Honolulu airport, in August. The 21-acre compound, part of the manicured Koolina Resort & Marina, will emphasize Hawaiian culture over Disney animation by offering hula lessons, lei making and storytelling (Disney movies will be stocked in the kids club). In addition to standard pools and a lazy river, a conservation pool supports stingrays that kids can safely touch.
For grown-ups, in October the hotelier Ian Schrager unveiled the first in a boutique hotel chain that he is creating for Marriott: the 353-room Waikiki Edition. Though it's not on the beach -- it's a five-minute walk to the ocean -- the resort makes up for it with an outdoor movie theater, a restaurant by the Iron Chef Masaharu Morimoto, surf-and-bikini boot camp and yoga. It has four bars, including one hidden behind a revolving bookcase.
But there's more than sunsets and mai tais to Oahu. A $56 million visitors' center and museum at Pearl Harbor opened Dec. 7 featuring interactive exhibits about the World War II attack that trace the path to war from both American and Japanese perspectives. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
14. Antwerp, Belgium A new breed of boutiques have made it a fashionista's paradise.
There hasn't been so much fashion buzz in Antwerp since the dawn of the Antwerp Six, a group of designers including Dries Van Noten and Ann Demeulemeester who rose to prominence in the mid 1980s. And while the city's Royal Academy of Fine Arts is still churning out avant-garde talents, it's Antwerp's latest crop of shops that is causing the current buzz.
''The fashionistas I know have suddenly fallen in love with Antwerp,'' said Lulu Townsend, the managing director of the London travel company Chic Retreats. ''It's a shopper's paradise.''
In the last year alone four destination-worthy concept stores have opened, among them the fashion shop-cum-gallery Ra, which sells local and international labels and also hosts art and fashion events. Next door is Your, which offers everything from ''a 2-euro pack of bubble gum to 14 brands of jeans and a 350,000-euro Alfa Romeo 8C,'' said Jorrit Baars, who conceived the space.
Then there are the posh new boutiques Graanmarkt 13 and Renaissance, which features designers like Alexander Wang along with a chic Italian restaurant simply called Ristaurante. While you are in the building, check out the latest exhibition at Antwerp's fashion museum, MoMu. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
15. Melbourne, Australia New hotels plus big-name chefs put Sydney on notice.
With a bunch of new hotels and restaurants led by notable chefs cropping up, Melbourne has been stealing the spotlight from its sister city, Sydney.
The most notable addition comes from the luxury brand Crown, which is investing 1 billion Australian dollars (about the same in U.S. dollars) to expand its sprawling Crown Entertainment Complex on the southern bank of the Yarra River. In April it opened Australia's largest hotel, the 300-million-dollar 658-room Crown Metropol, which has an infinity pool on the 27th floor with 180-degree views of the city, and is home to the Maze and Maze Grill, the celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay's first endeavors Down Under. The complex also includes the Crown Towers hotel, which has four private penthouse gaming salons with 360-degree views of Melbourne's skyline.
The city's thriving arts scene now has stylish boutique hotels to match, too. Three Art Series Hotels, inspired by (and featuring the works of) famous artists, opened in the last year. The Olsen, named for the landscape painter John Olsen, is the flagship of the group, with 229 rooms (from 215 dollars a night) and a heated, glass-bottomed swimming pool.
Visiting foodies will be able to choose from a number of new restaurants. In October, the Australian chef Neil Perry, of Rockpool in Sydney, opened Spice Temple, a 200-seat contemporary Szechuan restaurant next door to his Rockpool Bar & Grill in the Crown complex, as well as a new bar, the Waiting Room, in the lobby of the Crown Towers hotel. Also within the Crown complex, a new seafood restaurant, the Atlantic, will debut in February with Donovan Cooke as executive chef. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
16. Tlemcen, Algeria An ancient Islamic city dresses up for a gala year.
There's a buzz of anticipation -- and power tools -- in the streets, squares and souks of this ancient Algerian city. Named a Capital of Islamic Culture for 2011 by Isesco (Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), Algeria's spiritual heart is preparing for a yearlong gala that will include some 300 exhibitions, concerts, screenings, theater performances, lectures and readings. The ruins of medieval ramparts and towers are being refurbished. Time-worn mosques and hammams are being dusted off. Cultural centers and museums are being started. And a first generation of five-star hotels -- notably a Renaissance by Marriott-- is rising from the ground.
Why Tlemcen? As the seat of a medieval dynasty that controlled much of North Africa, Tlemcen has long been a center of Islamic learning, culture and art. Skilled craftsmen ply their wares around the Kissaria market, traditional orchestras show off their chops every summer at the city's festival of Arabo-Andalusian music, and the Muslim faithful pour into magnificent religious edifices like the Great Mosque and the tomb of Sidi Boumediene -- a revered 12th-century Islamic scholar. With the approaching festival, the city should at last recapture some of its past glory. -- SETH SHERWOOD
17. Sopot and Gdansk, Poland Poland's Baltic coast welcomes party hoppers and soccer fans.
Every country with a coastline has its version of the Hamptons. In Poland, it's Sopot. In the summer, the small city -- with its white beach, fin-de-siecle villas and lively cafe- and club-lined boulevard -- is packed with young party hoppers from all over Poland and Scandinavia, dancing at flashy venues like the new Dream Club. Vladimir Putin has been known to stay at the palatial Sofitel Grand, which looks over the sea and nearby pier, the longest on the Baltic.
Sopot and the neighboring city of Gdansk (formerly known as Danzig) are gearing up for the 2012 European soccer championships, which will take place throughout Poland and Ukraine. Already there has been a flurry of openings, including a new boutique-style Hilton in Gdansk's historic center, the Ergo Arena between Sopot and Gdansk (Lady Gaga was one of the first to perform), and a symphony hall with a stylish restaurant in Gdansk that was formerly a power plant. But the biggest debut is further off: the reopening of the beloved Forest Opera, an amphitheater in Sopot, which by 2012 should have 1,000 additional seats and a new roof. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
18. Erzurum, Turkey Skiing in Turkey? A winter sports capital emerges in Anatolia.
Turkey may not be the first place people think of for skiing, but it's got mountains -- big, snowy ones. Now the government is making a push to turn Erzurum, a city of 785,000 in eastern Anatolia, into a winter sports capital in time for this month's 2011 Winter Universiade (sort of an Olympics for university students). Two and a half miles from town lies the ski resort of Palandoken, which the Iranian skiers who come here know has the most challenging skiing in Turkey. Three lifts have been added to the bald mountain that rises nearly 3,000 feet from its base to its summit at 10,498. The number of runs is a modest 18 -- but the fun skiing is off-piste, between the runs, on Palandoken's 2,200 acres.
About 11 miles from Erzurum sits the new Konakli Ski Resort, which opened this winter with six chairlifts and 3,000 acres of skiing. A new five-star hotel is scheduled to open next season; until it does, rent a car for day trips and stay at Palandoken's Renaissance Polat Erzurum Hotel. -- CHRISTOPHER SOLOMON
19. Hyderabad, India Dynastic grandeur in the heart of modern India.
Even in the 16th century, Hyderabad, in southern India, famous for its diamond trade and sultans' palaces, was a city with serious bling. In the last decade, a new sort of wealth has arrived -- the outsourcing of international companies, which has inspired a boom of sleek cafes and restaurants such as Fusion 9.
The latest buzz is the debut of two five-star hotels, both connected to the Nizam family, rulers of Hyderabad for the two centuries before India's independence. The first, Park Hyderabad, is a futuristic structure designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with an aluminum and glass facade inspired by the settings and metalwork found in the Nizams' jewelry collection. The new Taj Falaknuma Palace, on the other hand, is a window into the past. It's a wedding cake of a building that still belongs to the Nizam family, and it took the Taj Hotels group 10 years to renovate the European-style castle. ''The Falaknuma Palace will complete the Indian palace tour for the south,'' said Shanti Kohli, of New Delhi-based Amber Tours. ''It makes a trip to Hyderabad worthwhile just on its own.'' -- GISELA WILLIAMS
20. Manchester, England An industrial city reinvents its famed musical past.
The cold and gritty factory city that famously inspired the post-industrial anguish of bands like Joy Division and the Smiths has transformed into a thriving cultural hub. Several new music venues are cashing in on ''Madchester'' nostalgia, including FAC251, an indie-music club that opened in February in the old Factory Records building. The owners of the popular Trof cafe, which bills itself as a ''dandyish den of opulence,'' recently opened a new multiplatform cultural venue called the Deaf Institute. For those who want a taste of the city's favorite depressive sons. -- CHARLY WILDER
21. Tallinn, Estonia The beautiful capital city aims to shed its stag-party past.
Soon after EasyJet began flights from London and Berlin to the Estonian capital in 2004, Tallinn became known as the Las Vegas of the Baltics, luring hordes of party tourists with its cheap liquor and wild seaside night life. But now, with the city's selection as a 2011 European Capital of Culture, cash is flowing in and pulling Tallinn out of its stag party adolescence.
Some seven years after Estonia joined the European Union, large-scale infrastructural and restorative work, including several rebuilt museums, a waterfront promenade and a large arts venue, KultuuriKatel (Culture Cauldron), are reshaping Tallinn's cultural identity. Much of Northern Europe's arts community will converge on the city this year, as it debuts a yearlong schedule of European Union-sponsored events, including the student-focused contemporary art triennial Exsperimenta! and ''Stories of the Seashore,'' a project that enlists writers, actors, artists and musicians to reflect on the sea that has been so central to Estonia's development. -- CHARLY WILDER
22. Fogo Island, Newfoundland An art colony blooms on remote and rugged shores.
A remote island off the coast of Newfoundland with a dwindling population of 3,000 residents might not strike you as an important cultural enclave. But it soon could be, thanks to a local resident, Zita Cobb and a Canadian architect, Todd Saunders. They teamed up to create a series of innovative artists' studios in former saltbox houses and deconsecrated churches that perch over the North Atlantic and rugged pristine landscapes. Two are complete, and four more will be unveiled in June as part of the Fogo Island Arts Corporation. The effort, with the help of government financing, puts more than $15 million into showcasing the island as an arts and eco destination.
Besides the cutting-edge studios, which will host artists and writers as part of an international residency program, the foundation will also open a 29-room hotel next year. For the moment visitors can stay at country spots like Foley's Bed and Breakfast and Peg's B&B and rent a car to tour the architectural showcases. Talk about island innovation. -- ONDINE COHANE
23. Singapore With new resorts and casinos, the city lets its hair down.
For years, this island country was considered oppressive and humorless. But recently Singapore has started to have some fun with new supersized resorts, design hotels and restaurants.
''There has been a big change in the Singapore scene in the last two or three years,'' said the hotelier Lik Peng Loh, who recently opened Wanderlust, which he calls an ''adult playground.''
Singapore's decision six years ago to allow gambling led to the recent opening of two complexes: the Resorts World Sentosa, with a casino, Universal Studios theme park and four hotels, including a Hard Rock; and the Marina Bay Sands. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
24. Port Ghalib, Egypt A low-key beach escape with clear water and sea creatures.
The once unspoiled beauty and calm of Sharm el-Sheikh, on the Red Sea in Egypt, has suffered from an influx of tourists (not to mention a recent series of shark attacks). Those looking to skip the crowds should turn to Port Ghalib, across the Red Sea from Sharm, on the eastern Egyptian coast. Ghalib's beaches offer soft, snow-hued sand and translucent water that divers love.
Since the area's rich marine life hasn't yet been sullied by packs of visitors, the coral reefs are undamaged and ripe for exploring. Admiral Travel, a Florida-based travel consultancy that specializes in trips to Egypt, arranges customized diving expeditions to Elphinstone Reef (a few miles from Ghalib) that allow clients to swim with hammerhead and gray reef sharks. Port Ghalib also offers affordable lodging options, with several attractive hotels. Four resorts operated by the InterContinental Hotel Group include the upscale beachfront Palace Port Ghalib Resort, which features a Six Senses spa. -- SHIVANI VORA
25. Whistler, British Columbia The Olympians are gone. Now it's your turn.
You don't need a lifetime of training or a Spandex unitard to retrace the strides of the best Nordic skiers in the world. The 2010 Winter Games left behind a tremendous structural legacy: Whistler Olympic Park, which is now open to the public. The park, and its partner facility, the Callaghan Country Lodge, offer some 55 miles of trails that range from easy to Olympian.
Skiers not yet ready to power up the devastating hills that were part of last year's Nordic sprint events can look to the park's ski school, which offers lessons in most of the Nordic skiing disciplines -- classic cross-country, skate skiing, even biathlon.
Whistler Village, with its extensive lodges, condos and restaurants, is near the park's day lodge, but cross-country skiers seeking a truly remote experience may choose to stay at Callaghan Lodge, a cheery chalet encircled by glacier-swaddled mountains. One five-kilometer cross-country loop from the lodge passes right below the toe of the massive Solitude glacier. In the winter, the lodge is accessible only by trail, which takes about three hours for the average skier to reach from the park's central day lodge. Less ambitious souls can still enjoy the lodge as snowmobile transport is available for an additional fee. -- SARA DICKERMAN
26. Guimaraes, Portugal A city of youth is fired up by its art scene.
Considered the birthplace of Portugal, this picturesque northern city has long been of great historical importance to the country. Now, with half its inhabitants under 30, it is also one of the youngest cities in Europe. A string of recent developments, like its selection as a 2012 European Capital of Culture and the rehabilitation of the Unesco-designated historic center, have helped turned the youthful ''cradle city'' into one of the Iberian peninsula's emerging cultural hot spots.
Much of the city's burgeoning music and arts scene is nourished by the Centro Cultural Vila Flor, a contemporary-minded cultural center that opened in 2005 in a converted 18th-century palace. It includes amphitheaters, an exhibition villa, artists' studios and a modern Portuguese restaurant. This March, the center will host the first International Festival of Contemporary Dance, bringing in an impressive selection of dance companies from throughout the world. -- CHARLY WILDER
27. Olympic Park, Wash. Bad weather is good for skiers and storm-watchers.
It's a La Nina year, which means that storms are hitting the Pacific Northwest in a big way. And Olympic National Park offers two ways to take advantage of the wild weather. Skiers can tackle Hurricane Ridge, the mile-high ski and snowboard area, which has massive bowls and glades with 400-plus inches of snow each year. Lifts operate only on weekends, but Hurricane Ridge Road and its visitor center will be open seven days a week for the first time during the 2011 season, so cross-country skiers and snowshoers have all-day, everyday access to the unmarked and ungroomed trails in the forests and meadows around the ridge.
Nonskiers can head to the park's historic lodges, Lake Quinault and Kalaloch, for rooms with fireplaces and epic views. This year, the two lodges are offering ''storm-watching'' specials through the winter and early spring that include lodging as well as breakfast, rain ponchos, souvenir blankets and rain-forest tour options. -- BONNIE TSUI
28. Dresden, Germany A new museum leads the way to a historic city's future.
This city, devastated by bombing during World War II, has meticulously refashioned itself into a prewar picture postcard. Now, with most of the costly historic renovations finished there is finally time for a little reflection. In fall 2011 the city will open a comprehensive new Military History Museum, with a striking glass and steel extension by the architect Daniel Libeskind added to the existing 19th-century building.
The exhibition space, which covers almost 200,000 square feet, offers two experiences. The original space will feature a chronological history of German war, with an emphasis on the last century. The other, spread over multiple floors in the trapezoidal addition, will feature displays related to sociological and anthropological topics, like the effect of war on the individual. The floor will be paved with stones recovered from foreign cities that Germany bombed during World War II, as well as from Dresden itself.
At the summit of Mr. Libeskind's wedge, which bisects the building (representing the fissures of German history), there will be a 100-foot-high viewing platform, giving visitors a new, more informed vantage point over Dresden's reconstructed old town. -- RACHEL B. DOYLE
29. Oualidia, Morocco On a Moroccan lagoon, oysters, flamingoes and no crowds.
The seaside Moroccan village of Oualidia is almost exclusively for the birds -- and that's exactly what's special about it.
''It's just about communing with nature: fishing, surfing, kayaking or birdwatching,'' said James von Leyden, a British expatriate who built a house overlooking Oualidia's lagoon, which is filled with pink flamingoes, migrating herons and the occasional surfer.
Mr. Von Leyden and his family spend about four months a year at Villa La Diouana, their charming riad on the sea; the rest of the year it is rented by savvy Morocco insiders, like the French handbag designer Laetitia Trouillet.
The British writer Danny Moynihan and his wife, Katrina Boorman, an actress, fell so in love with the area that they bought property in 2004. This year they are completing an eight bedroom eco-property. (It will also be available to rent.)
For those who prefer hotels, the luxurious new 11-room La Sultana is the place to stay. Those on a budget can check into the charming but rustic L'Hippocampe, whose bar is a cozy meeting point. As is the seaside fish restaurant L'Ostrea, which serves Oualidia's famous oysters. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
30. Zanzibar On an African isle, luxury lures the apres safari set.
Zanzibar. The name alone evokes images of spice markets and swaying palms. Newly renovated palace hotels in Stone Town and exotic villa hotels by the sea are adding to the allure of this Tanzanian island.
Tarquin Barnsby, founder of the travel company Pure Zanzibar, notes that Zanzibar, with its white beaches and relatively modern infrastructure, is a popular beach stop for travelers after a safari in East Africa. He added that the island's trade winds are attracting kite surfers and that a cleaned-up Stone Town, the island's main center, is now worth a visit.
New hotel options include the Mashariki Palace, which just opened with 18 spacious rooms. Small hybrids of villas and hotels include the Baraza, which resembles a sultan's palace, and Kilindi, a property on the north coast, with 15 whitewashed pavilions, private plunge pools and ocean views. Cheaper options include the new Dongwe Ocean View. And burned-out travelers with deep pockets should check into the just renovated, soon to reopen Zamani Retreat Kempinski, the chain's first holistic wellness resort. -- GISELA WILLIAMS
31. Colonia del Sacramento, Uruguay The ranches beyond a historic village offer a dose of rural chic.
Colonia del Sacramento, on the southwestern shores of Uruguay, has long been a popular detour from Buenos Aires. Reachable by ferry across the Rio de la Plata, this UnescoWorld Heritage site offers centuries-old stone houses, casual restaurants with riverside patios and boutiques selling crafts. In the last few years, its appeal has spilled into the surrounding countryside, where tastefully decorated ranches and locavore offerings are attracting travelers in search of rural chic.
At the recently opened La Vigna, 37 miles south of the historic quarter, guests can learn about organic farming, sheep shearing and other activities worthy of a gaucho. Or they can just relax at the main house, a restored Renaissance Revival estate built in 1880 by Italian winemakers. It has five rooms furnished with rustic antiques and ceramics made on site.
Deeper inland, Estancia Tierra Santa (open March to June and September to December) has three suites inside a renovated colonial manor -- all with wood-burning fireplaces and outdoor terraces. More than 50 bird species have been spotted during expeditions at this ranch, which also offers fishing, hunting and riding on criollo horses.
The promenade at the nearby Puerto Camacho marina includes a stone-walled chapel, a food shop that stocks artisanal preserves and a restaurant, Basta Pedro. The marina, part of a larger development, will include a racetrack with lessons taught by expert riders. You'll be galloping through the grasslands in no time. -- PAOLA SINGER
32. Tozeur, Tunisia Camel racing, souks and eco-lodging in a Saharan oasis.
With its luxury hotels and glittery events -- film festival, art fair, Formula One race -- many feel that Marrakesh, Morocco's ''jewel of the south,'' has lost its authentic North African luster. Fortunately, there is an alternative: Tozeur, Tunisia's desert gem. Compared with its Moroccan cousin, Tozeur is smaller, quieter, more remote and (for now) less touristed -- though a few luxury hotels have begun to sprout there. Set in an oasis of date palms, this former Roman outpost and caravan hub is awash in Saharan culture, from traditional souks to a zoo of desert animals. No glammed-out red-carpet events animate the streets, only the annual Oasis festival of traditional dance and music. The closest that the region has come to a star turn were cameos in ''Star Wars'' movies, thanks to its otherworldly dunes and dried-up salt lake.
Visitors can have a futuristic desert experience of their own, courtesy of the new Dar Hi hotel in Nefta. Designed by Matali Crasset -- a protege of Philippe Starck -- the small eco-hotel has rooms that suggest sci-fi stone turrets and caves, and a hammam fed by underground springs. -- SETH SHERWOOD
33. Hangzhou, China An hour from Shanghai, a historic jewel goes five-star.
Although Hangzhou is only now coming into the global spotlight, its gorgeous pagodas, historic temples and lush gardens have been inspiring Chinese poets and painters for centuries. Recently, the feverish growth of Shanghai has sparked the rediscovery of Hangzhou as a peaceful retreat and a cultural masterpiece. And with it, a new generation of luxury hotels has arrived: Shangri-la overlooking West Lake; the Banyan Tree set within China's first wetland reserve; the Aman, close to some of the area's most spectacular ancient Buddhist temples up in the hills; and most recently, the Four Seasons with a destination spa and two swimming pools set up along the lagoons. Next up is an Angsana, the Banyan Tree's design-chic sister hotel. And with the debut of a high-speed train from Shanghai, it's now -- unbelievably -- less than a one-hour journey from central Shanghai. Once there, rent a bike and step into sights like Lingyin Temple, one of the world's most important Buddhist temples. -- ONDINE COHANE
34. Iraqi Kurdistan Safety, history and a warm welcome in a stable corner of Iraq.
As United States forces withdraw from Iraq, a handful of intrepid travel companies are offering trips to the semiautonomous Kurdish region in the north, which has enjoyed relative safety and stability in recent years.
Geographic Expeditions is conducting a 21-day tour to Kurdistan and Eastern Turkey, about half of it spent exploring Kurdistan along the Hamilton Road, which connects strategic gorges, and the other half devoted to the Anatolia region of Turkey. Distant Horizons has been taking small groups of Americans to Kurdistan twice a year since 2008, has a trip this spring, The Changing Face of Iraqi Kurdistan, which will explore Erbil, Dohuk and Sulaimaniyah. And last April, after a 20-year break, Lufthansa resumed service from Frankfurt to Erbil, the Kurdish capital and fourth-largest city in Iraq.
While the State Department continues to warn American tourists to avoid Iraq entirely, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office says the Kurdistan region is an exception. ''The risk of terrorism in the Kurdistan Regional Government-controlled provinces of Dohuk, Erbil and Sulaimaniyah is markedly and statistically lower than in other parts of Iraq,'' states its Web site.
Visitors can tour significant cultural landmarks like Erbil's citadel, which dates to the Assyrian empire, and the site of the Battle of Gaugamela, which ended in the defeat of the Persian king Darius III by Alexander the Great and led to the fall of the Achaemenid Empire. The biggest lure is the opportunity for authentic cultural encounters. ''Authenticity is something that can be lost so quickly as development occurs,'' said Janet Moore, of Distant Horizons. -- MICHELLE HIGGINS
35. Durham, N.C. A downtown turnaround means food worth a trip.
A decade ago, downtown Durham was a place best avoided after sundown. But as revitalization has transformed abandoned tobacco factories and former textile mills into bustling mixed-use properties, the city has been injected with much-needed life. In the heart of downtown, a crop of standout restaurants and cafes has recently sprouted around West Main Street, where low rents have allowed chefs and other entrepreneurs to pursue an ethos that skews local, seasonal and delicious.
The farmers' market favorite Scratch Bakery has a brand-new storefront for its seasonal homemade pies that include chestnut cream pie and buttermilk sweet potato pie. At the cafe-cum-grocery Parker and Otis, the menu features sandwiches made with freshly baked bread from nearby Rue Cler and locally roasted java from Durham's Counter Culture Coffee. And at the sophisticated Revolution, squash tamales, mascarpone gnocchi, and tuna with wasabi caviar rotate through the seasonal menu. -- INGRID K. WILLIAMS
36. Kosovo Mountains, medieval architecture and unexpected night life.
Just over a decade ago, this Albanian enclave was a troubled province of Serbia; Slobodan Milosevic's Serbian forces destroyed myriad towns and cities and killed thousands in their pursuit of independence fighters. NATO ended the fighting, but flare-ups continued.
The last few years have seen Kosovo -- which declared independence in 2008 -- attempt to rise from the ashes. Despite problems and controversies, there is progress on the travel front: a $1 billion highway project is under way, government-owned hotels have been privatized and refurbished, various historic sites have won Unesco World Heritage status, and the airport now welcomes the European budget carrier EasyJet.
Travelers will be greeted by rugged mountains and pine forests. They'll also find that Europe's youngest nation boasts the Continent's youngest population, with about half of the people under 25. That statistic comes to life in Pristina, the capital. Thanks in part to the return of enterprising young Kosovars living abroad, the city is filling with cafes, nightclubs and restaurants.
But remnants of Kosovo's Slavic and Ottoman past are the marquee attractions. Once the seat of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the city of Peja contains the Patriarchate of Pec, a complex of medieval churches overlooking a jagged gorge, with interiors that glow with frescoes, and the Decani Monastery, filled with vivid biblical scenes. -- SETH SHERWOOD
37. Pingyao, China Ming architecture is intact as contemporary culture takes root.
While other towns in China have modernized, Pingyao, in China's coal-rich Shanxi Province, has clung to its old ways, barring cars within its 33-foot-tall Ming dynasty walls and preserving the traditional architecture of incense shops, courtyard houses and 19th-century bank buildings. Named a Unesco World Heritage site in 1997, Pingyao has become a major destination for Chinese and foreigners alike.
But the city is becoming known for more than its history. Its yearly photography festival, which takes place in late summer, has attracted enthusiasts and professionals from across the globe for a decade. Another sign that Pingyao is being embraced by the fashionable set: in 2009, the city's first boutique hotel, the 19-room Jing's Residence, a Relais & Chateaux member, opened in a restored courtyard house built more 200 years ago by a Qing dynasty silk merchant. -- DAN LEVIN
38. Salonika, Greece Out of the country's economic woes, a new wave of artists.
It may come as cold comfort to the Greeks, but the country's financial woes have made it prime territory for bargain-hunting tourists. The coastal city of Salonika, often overlooked by tourists in favor of Athens, has been gaining momentum for the last several years with its prolific cultural scene. Now, with British Airways adding a direct route from London and a new mayor pushing forward a spate of major cultural and tourism initiatives, Salonika is hotter than ever.
The newest wave of culture makers in the laid-back city include the nonprofit Dynamo Project Space, which gives a platform to up-and-coming local artists, architects and designers, and Sfina, a self-appointed ''urban prankster network'' that instigates flash mob-style events in public spaces. Since it opened last summer, the eco-conscious design firm 157173 has garnered attention for its offbeat minimalist lamps, mobiles and other design objects that are equal parts Bauhaus and Joan Miro. -- CHARLY WILDER
39. Okinawa, Japan A 'Japanese Amazon' with some luxury thrown in.
The latest news about Okinawa might focus on the future of the American military base there, but the cluster of coral-lined islands has long been a uniquely lovely place to experience wild Japan. Few foreigners make it here, though Okinawa is a popular vacation spot for Japanese mainlanders as it's just a few hours from Tokyo by plane and has excellent diving, hiking and palm-fringed white-sand beaches.
Playing off an increased awareness of the islands as a destination for non-Japanese tourists, new hotels are popping up all over the prefecture: InterContinental opened the first two luxury resorts last year, and in March, the Tera Resort Hotel is scheduled to open near the Shuri Castle ruins, which are part of a Unesco World Heritage Site. On Okinawa Island visitors should head to the northern coast for a decidedly unspoiled, natural experience replete with sugarcane fields, hibiscus-lined beaches, and traditional ceramics studios that use old-fashioned Okinawan firing techniques and dragon-shaped kilns. Farther southwest, the island of Iriomote is the wildest of them all, with dense coastal jungle, mangroves, rich indigenous wildlife, and tiny villages accessible only by boat. They don't call it the Japanese Amazon for nothing. -- BONNIE TSUI
40. Budapest A scene pops up in abandoned buildings, and glamour rises.
From Castle Hill to Heroes' Square, Budapest is renowned for its grandeur. But in areas blighted by poverty and neglect, a surging bohemian culture revels in the wreckage at ''ruin pubs.'' Originating in the scruffy old Jewish quarter downtown, these bars occupy abandoned buildings and their courtyards, hosting hipsters quaffing German and Czech beers while reclining on cast-off furniture amid haphazard flea market finds. Szimpla Kert epitomizes the ''romkocsma'' (''ruin pub'') movement, which has exploded beyond the district to encompass not just vacant lots, but rooftop bars such as Corvintet, which bills itself as an underground club in the open air.
Not all of Budapest's historic buildings are celebrated for their distress, of course. The Buddha-Bar Hotel Budapest Klotild Palace, opening in summer 2011, will occupy a vintage 1900 former palace, with 102 rooms and a branch of the Paris-famed Buddha-Bar glassed in on the roof.
Budapest will also be easier reach once American Airlines begins daily nonstops from Kennedy International Airport on April 5. Those flights will land at the new international terminal at Budapest Ferihegy International Airport, which opens March 27 with a 60-foot-high glass atrium filled with new restaurants, shops and bars. -- ELAINE GLUSAC
41. Miami Big-time music arrives in a town known for beaches and art.
Between the white-hot Art Basel festival and the growing Design District, south Florida's city on the sea is slowly earning must-stop status on the global arts circuit.
This month, the quest to amass cultural assets to match its beachside charms continues with the opening of a huge performing arts center, the New World Center, designed by Frank Gehry, in the heart of Miami Beach. The 100,000-square-foot space will be home to the New World Symphony and its conductor, Michael Tilson Thomas, and will have a 2.5-acre park for outdoor performances, a 7,000-square-foot outdoor projection wall for videos and installations, and a music academy for young artists. And after only the briefest of pauses in honor of the global economic meltdown, the stampede of hot hotel openings returns, led by Soho Beach House with 49 rooms, a private screening room, and Cecconi's, the city's hot restaurant of the moment. Others include the Dream South Beach, planned to open in the next couple of months, and a new top-end JW Marriott. -- ONDINE COHANE

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The cover article on Jan. 9 about the 41 places to go in 2011 gave the incorrect nationality of an architect who is designing a series of artists' studios in former houses and churches on Fogo Island, Newfoundland, and misspelled his surname. He is Todd Saunders, not Sanders, and he is Canadian, not Norwegian.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SANTIAGO, CHILE: The Centro Gabriela Mistral, a 200,000-square-foot performance and exhibition space of glass and steel, is an example of the government's investment in the arts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
KOH SAMUI, THAILAND: View from the lobby of the trendy W Retreat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR3)
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA: Georgia has the kind of terrain adventurous skiers yearn for. Mestia's first groomed slopes opened last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID TURNLEY/CORBIS) (TR5)
NISEKO, JAPAN: Tatami room in a loft at the Suiboku on the island of Hokkaido. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CALI, COLOMBIA: The scene at one of the city's many salsotecas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIS ROBAYO/AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (TR8)
PORT GHALIB, EGYPT: Across the Red Sea from much-touristed Sharm el-Sheikh, Port Ghalib's beaches offer soft, snow-hued sand and translucent water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
OLYMPIC NATIONAL PARK, WASH.: Lodges cater to storm-watchers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TALLINN, ESTONIA: As a 2011 European Capital of Culture, the city is losing its party reputation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN TROWER/JAI/CORBIS) (TR9)
MIAMI: The resumed stampede of hot hotel openings was led by Soho Beach House with 49 rooms, a private screening room and Cecconi's restaurant.
 PINGYAO, CHINA: Jing's Residence is a boutique hotel in a restored house built more 200 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN BRADSHAW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (TR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BEACHES (78%); FEBRUARY 2010 CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); DANCE (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); HAUTE COUTURE (67%)

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (98%) RED SEA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (74%) CHILE (98%); ESTONIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); GEORGIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011



265 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2988 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking A.P.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW. 
Christopher Drew is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
WHEN Joan Carlson started teaching high school biology more than 30 years ago, the Advanced Placement textbook was daunting enough, at 36 chapters and 870 pages. But as an explosion of research into cells and genes reshapes our sense of how life evolves, the flood of new material has been staggering. Mrs. Carlson's A.P. class in Worcester, Mass., now confronts a book with 56 chapters and 1,400 pages, along with a profusion of animated videos and Web-based aids that supplement the text.
And what fuels the panic is that nearly every tongue-twisting term and microscopic fact is fair game for the year-end test that decides who will receive college credit for the course.
''Some of the students look at the book and say, 'My gosh, it's just like an encyclopedia,' '' Mrs. Carlson says. And when new A.P. teachers encounter it, ''they almost want to start sobbing.'' 
As A.P. has proliferated, spreading to more than 30 subjects with 1.8 million students taking 3.2 million tests, the program has won praise for giving students an early chance at more challenging work. But many of the courses, particularly in the sciences and history, have also been criticized for overwhelming students with facts to memorize and then rushing through important topics. Students and educators alike say that biology, with 172,000 test takers this year, is one of the worst offenders.
A.P. teachers have long complained that lingering for an extra 10 or 15 minutes on a topic can be a zero-sum game, squeezing out something else that needs to be covered for the exam. PowerPoint lectures are the rule. The homework wears down many students. And studies show that most schools do the same canned laboratory exercises, providing little sense of the thrill of scientific discovery.
All that, says the College Board, is about to change.
Next month, the board, the nonprofit organization that owns the A.P. exams as well as the SAT, will release a wholesale revamping of A.P. biology as well as United States history -- with 387,000 test takers the most popular A.P. subject. A preview of the changes shows that the board will slash the amount of material students need to know for the tests and provide, for the first time, a curriculum framework for what courses should look like. The goal is to clear students' minds to focus on bigger concepts and stimulate more analytic thinking. In biology, a host of more creative, hands-on experiments are intended to help students think more like scientists.
The changes, which are to take effect in the 2012-13 school year, are part of a sweeping redesign of the entire A.P. program. Instead of just providing teachers with a list of points that need to be covered for the exams, the College Board will create these detailed standards for each subject and create new exams to match.
Trevor Packer, the College Board's vice president for Advanced Placement, notes that the changes mark a new direction for the board, which has focused on the tests more than the courses. The rollout of ''the New A.P.,'' as the board describes it, will actually start this year with a new curriculum taking effect in two smaller programs, German and French language. Major revisions to physics, chemistry, European history, world history and art history will follow, with the hope of being ready for exams in 2014 or 2015.
''We really believe that the New A.P. needs to be anchored in a curriculum that focuses on what students need to be able to do with their knowledge,'' Mr. Packer says. A.P. teachers made clear that such a shift was impossible unless the breadth of material covered was pared down. Courses in English and math are manageable, Mr. Packer says, and will not be revised until later.
The new approach is important because critical thinking skills are considered essential for advanced college courses and jobs in today's information-based economy. College administrators and veteran A.P. teachers familiar with the new biology curriculum believe the changes could have significant reverberations for how science is taught in introductory college classes and even elementary school classrooms, and might bring some of the excitement back to science learning.
''I really think this is a game-changer,'' says Gordon E. Uno, a botany professor at the University of Oklahoma who has helped plan the biology changes.
And here is one indication of how pumped up the College Board is about the revitalization: If Mr. Packer were a high school junior next year, would he take the old A.P. biology or wait till his senior year for the new one?
''I would absolutely wait,'' he says.
WHEN A.P. testing began in 1956, memorization was not yet a dirty word, and it was O.K. if history classes ran out of time just after they finished World War II.
The College Board created the first exams at the behest of elite preparatory schools, which wanted to convince colleges that their best students could dart right into advanced work. The board based the exams on what colleges taught in freshman survey courses. As the testing expanded over the next several decades, the board began providing a brief description of college-course themes and breaking down the percentage of those courses -- and thus the A.P. exam -- devoted to each topic. But it was up to each high school to flesh out its own curriculum.
And it did not take long for instructors to start teaching to the test, treating the board's outline as the holy grail for helping students achieve the scores of 3 or higher, out of 5, that might earn credit from a college.
That obviously became harder to do as breakthroughs in genetic research and cellular organization, and momentous events like the cold war, the civil rights movement, Watergate and the war on terror, began to elbow their way onto the lists. College professors could pick and choose what to cover in their introductory survey classes. But because the A.P. test can touch on almost anything, high school juniors and seniors must now absorb more material than most college freshmen.
So perhaps it is no surprise that while the number of students taking the A.P. biology test has more than doubled since 1997, the mean score has dropped to 2.63, from 3.18. On the exam last May, slightly under half of the test-takers scored at least a 3, which equates to a C in a college course. And while 19 percent of students earned 5's, almost twice that many got 1's, which could be a failing grade in college.
A committee of the National Research Council, a part of the National Academy of Sciences, called attention to these problems in 2002. It criticized A.P. science courses for cramming in too much material and failing to let students design their own lab experiments. It also said the courses had failed to keep pace with research on how people learn: instead of listening to lectures, ''more real learning takes place if students spend more time going into greater depth on fewer topics, allowing them to experience problem solving, controversies and the subtleties of scholarly investigation.''
A few top universities have become more choosey about giving credit. In 2007, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for instance, stopped giving credit for A.P. biology, and developed its own placement exam. Stuart Schmill, M.I.T.'s dean of admissions, says the biology department found that even some of the students who scored 5's did not have the problem-solving skills needed for higher-level courses. The University of Texas has also tightened its rules for biology placement, giving credit for 5's only, though many large universities still accept 4's or 3's.
Several elite private high schools have also dropped A.P. courses. In defiance, the public school district in Scarsdale, N.Y., created its own in-depth courses called Advanced Topics. (For college credit, students still have to do well on the A.P. or another placement exam.)
The College Board took the criticisms to heart, and has been working with hundreds of college professors and high school teachers to develop the new approach.
For biology, the change means paring down the entire field to four big ideas. The first is a simple statement that evolution ''drives the diversity and unity of life.'' The others emphasize the systematic nature of all living things: that they use energy and molecular building blocks to grow; respond to information essential to life processes; and interact in complex ways. Under each of these thoughts, a 61-page course framework lays out the most crucial knowledge students need to absorb.
And to the delight of teachers who have gotten an early peek at the plans, the board also makes clear what will not be on the exam. Part or all of at least 20 of the 56 chapters in the A.P. biology book that Mrs. Carlson's class uses will no longer need to be covered. (One PowerPoint slide explaining the changes notes sardonically that teachers can retire their swift marches through the ''Organ of the Day.'')
Similarly, the new plans divide United States history into nine time periods and seven overarching themes. But instead of requiring students to memorize the dates of the Pequot War -- which, for those of you who forgot, occurred from 1634 to 1638 and eliminated the Pequot tribe in what is now Connecticut -- teachers will have more leeway to focus on different events in teaching students how to craft historical arguments.
Scarsdale High School sees some synchronicity. ''It appears to be clearly much more in line with what we are trying to emphasize this year,'' says Beth Schoenbrun, the school's' co-director of Science Research. ''It certainly seems to allow for a good deal more flexibility in terms of what is covered in the classroom.''
William Wood, who teaches biology at the University of Colorado, Boulder, was a key member of the National Research Council panel that criticized A.P. science. He says now: ''I like the way they've tried to make it clear what the boundaries are, what they want students to actually remember and what can be left out.'' He says he's ''pretty impressed'' with what he's seen so far.
MRS. CARLSON, who teaches A.P. bio at the Bancroft School, an affluent, private academy in central Massachusetts, has always made her lab an inviting place. A chalk-white skeleton watches over the students. So does Al, a rare clear gummy bear, in a paper-clip chair, surrounded by presents from students who view his lack of color as analogous to genetic mutations. He has a bag of mud from the Dead Sea, trinkets from Mount Fuji and a model of a fish from Bermuda.
Mrs. Carlson knows she is fortunate to have a board of directors that will buy whatever equipment she needs for the lab and a generous nine class periods a week for her A.P. course. Many teachers have to cover all the material in just five or six periods, and some must hold their labs after school or on holidays, if they have them at all -- thanks to insufficient slots during the school day, and too many after-school activities.
Mrs. Carlson says several students drop her class each year after they realize how hard it will be. She is also frustrated by the predictable nature of many of the ''dirty dozen,'' the teachers' nickname for the basic lab exercises now recommended by the College Board. In one that her class did last fall, the students looked at pre-stained slides of onion root tips to identify the stages of cell division and calculate the duration of the phases.
She and her students, who historically score 4's and 5's on the exam, were one of several schools asked by the College Board to road test one of the proposed new labs to see if it brought back the ''Oh, wow!'' factor.
The basic question: What factors affect the rate of photosynthesis in living plants? The new twist: Instead of being guided through the process, groups of two or three students had to dream up their own hypotheses and figure out how to test them.
Caroline Brown, a senior who stages the school's plays, connected the lab to her passion for theater. She borrowed green, sky blue and ''Broadway pink'' filters from the playhouse to test how different shades of light affected photosynthesis in sunken spinach leaves. The pink surprised her by narrowly edging out the blue in triggering photosynthesis.
Ms. Brown had started to take both A.P. biology and A.P. United States history as a junior, but says she quickly realized that school counselors were right in warning ''that's one combination that will just about kill you.'' So she stuck with history and went back to biology this year.
Robert Turley, a junior, created little disks of spinach with a hole puncher and dropped them into two beakers. He and his partner thought photosynthesis would occur more quickly in a slightly acidic solution, prompting those disks to shoot to the surface. But as they watched through safety goggles, all 10 of the disks in the basic solution rose, while none of disks in the more acidic solution budged.
''So for this lab, our hypothesis was actually wrong,'' he says. ''But it definitely felt more like a lab that would be done like a scientist in the real world than the other labs we've done.''
Even though Alyssa Kotin's experiment was inconclusive, she and her partner presented a colorful poster with a graph of their findings to the class, just as the other groups did, to stimulate more discussion.
College Board officials say the new labs should help students learn how to frame scientific questions and assemble data, and the exam will measure how well they can apply those skills. When the new test is unveiled in 2013, biology students will need, for the first time, to use calculators, just as A.P. chemistry and physics students do. The board plans to cut the number of multiple-choice questions nearly in half on the new test, to 55. It will add five questions based on math calculations, and it will more than double the number of free-response questions, to nine.
''There won't be any more questions like: here is a plant, and what is this tissue?'' says Professor Uno of the University of Oklahoma, who is helping to decide what will be asked. Instead, early samples show that the multiple-choice questions will be more complex. They will require students to read short passages, or look at graphs, and pick the answers that explain why something happened or that predict what will occur next.
One sample essay question provides a chart with the heights of plants growing in either sunlight or shade and a graph that misinterprets the results. Students must decipher what went wrong, re-plot the data and design a better experiment to determine which grew faster.
WHILE many educators agree with the tack A.P. is taking, they also recognize that the change is going to be difficult for many teachers and schools.
Athena Vangos, who teaches A.P. biology at a public high school in Leicester, Mass., a blue-collar town where many students have part-time jobs, loves the idea of less memorization and more conceptual thinking. As is the case with many public schools, hers does not limit A.P. courses to only the top students. So while six of her students earned 4's or 5's on the exam last May, six others ''just throw up their hands'' at the amount of work and settled for 1's.
While Ms. Vangos believes the program could inspire students who ''like to think outside the box,'' she worries that the new math requirements will discourage others. And with so many cutbacks these days in education budgets, she says, the need to improve lab facilities at many public schools ''is absolutely going to pose a big problem.'' Labs in resource-strapped urban schools often don't have enough of even basic tools, like dissecting microscopes, for their students.
Studies indicate that relatively few high schools have laboratories equivalent to those used in first-year college courses. Professor Uno says that the new A.P. lab experiments will rely mostly on the same equipment as the old ones, and that program designers will provide ''some low-cost alternatives where we can.''
Another concern is how well teachers -- across the full range of A.P. subjects -- will adjust to an approach that will require them to give up some control and let the students dictate more about where the class discussions go. Mr. Packer says the College Board is investing substantial resources in creating professional-development programs and online tools to help teachers make that transition.
In many ways, the changes will complete a broad turn for the College Board, from its origins as a purveyor of tests to a much more deliberate arbiter of what the nation's top students will study. Its exams had already set that agenda indirectly, of course, and turned A.P. classes into a way of life for top students.
Yet as the board trumpets its new plans, it is also acknowledging how much the process had gotten out of hand. Students will still have to put in long hours, and there is no sign that the arms race will slow among students trying to pile up as many A.P. classes as they can to impress college admissions offices.
But, Mr. Packer says, the College Board supports the idea of schools' placing limits on the number of A.P. classes students can take. And, he says, it sees the new courses as a step toward relieving some of the burdens.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2011; January 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article and a chart in the special Education Life section on Sunday about revisions to the Advanced Placement program referred incorrectly to score trends on A.P. exams since 1997. The scores given were means, not medians. An accompanying article about a change in the scoring of A.P. exams so that points are no longer deducted for a wrong answer misstated the amount deducted for a wrong answer on the SAT, which is not changing. A wrong answer on the SAT costs 0.25 of a point, not 0.75.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sunday about revisions to the Advanced Placement program referred incorrectly to the number of students who scored a 3 on last year's biology exam. About 15 percent did so, not ''slightly fewer than half.'' (That was the number who scored at least a 3.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW A.P. : Looking to bring the ''Oh, wow!'' factor back to science. Above, the lab at the Bancroft School. (ED24)
INQUIRY: Connor Richmond, left, and Robert Turley, Bancroft students, road test a proposed exercise. (ED25)
New Sample Lab: What variables affect the rate of photosynthesis? Devise a hypothesis and figure out a way to test it. (Above, an experiment by students at the Bancroft School trying different acidity levels.) (ED26): YOUNG SCIENTISTS: Rachel Hahn, left, and Alyssa Kotin testing their theory on photosynthesis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED27) GRAPHIC: New Sample Question: Bio: Currently all living organisms are classified into one of three domains: Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya. In a sentence or two, provide two pieces of evidence that justify a common origin for the three domains. (ED25)
CHARTS: Revising Advanced Placement: A.P. courses and exams are undergoing large-scale revisions, starting with 11 subjects for which there has been significant concern about the amount and depth of material covered. Biology and U.S. history curriculums will be released next month. The number of students taking those exams since 1997 has increased, as scores have dropped. (Source: College Board)
New Sample Question: Bio: The role of tRNA in the process of translation was investigated by the addition of tRNA with attached radioactive leucine to an in vitro translation system that included mRNA and ribosomes. The results are shown by the graph. Describe in a few sentences how this figure justifies the claim that the role of tRNA is to carry amino acids that are then transferred from the tRNA to growing polypeptide chains. (ED26)
CHART: New Sample Question: U.S. History
 GRAPHIC: New Sample Question: U.S. History: In the post-Civil War period and the post- Second World War period, African- Americans intensified their struggle to achieve greater equality within United States society. Compare and contrast the extent to which African-Americans were able to achieve their goals in the period 1865 to 1900 with the extent to which they were able to achieve their goals from 1940 to 1970. (ED27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); WORLD WAR II (79%); HOMEWORK (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



266 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article last Sunday about the employment challenges facing young people in southern Europe misspelled the given name of a Boston University economist who commented on how the region's low birth rates and aging populations are draining national budgets. He is Laurence J. Kotlikoff, not Lawrence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (86%); BUDGETS (84%); AGING (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



267 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: An Assassin's Long Reach

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The assassination last week of one of the most moderate politicians in the Pakistani political elite was shocking enough, even in a country known for settling religious and political disputes with a hail of gunfire.
But it was Pakistan's reaction to the killing of the governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer -- starting with the rose petals showered on the smiling accused assassin as he was led into court -- that really rocked the Obama administration, as it tries to sustain its public line that the Pakistani government is a close ally, fully committed to countering terrorism.
''Everything about what's happened in the past few days is a reminder of how we're still losing ground in Pakistan,'' said one administration official who deals with the country often, but would not speak on the record because public criticism of Pakistan's two governments -- its weak civilian leadership and its always-dominant military -- is avoided at all cost. ''It's trouble on many different levels.'' 
Three levels, at least, and at each a threat to assumptions that underlie the Obama administration's strategy. One is that Pakistan is moving toward the West, even if sporadically. Another is that the United States can gradually deal more with Pakistan's elected government, and less with its military. The third, and most critical, is that Pakistan's expanding nuclear arsenal is truly safe from betrayal by insiders.
On the first level, the assassination left little doubt that a civil war is underway in Pakistan, one not confined to the border regions where the Taliban and Al Qaeda operate. Perhaps more than at any time since Pakistan reluctantly signed up to take on the Taliban and Al Qaeda, the battle is joined between those Pakistanis who believe their nation should be essentially a secular Islamic state, and religious extremists with visions of taking over the country.
''What was once a problem confined to the borderlands is now an infection inside the entire body-politic of Pakistan,'' Bruce Riedel, who ran President Obama's first review of Pakistan and Afghanistan policy in early 2009, said after the assassination. ''It is another reminder that Pakistan has had an Islamic jihadist dictator before, and he can be re-incarnated.'' Mr. Riedel was referring to Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, who ran the country in the 1980s and whose government imprisoned Mr. Taseer at the time for opposing religious parties.
Second, Mr. Obama has often talked about engaging with Pakistan's democratically-elected government, starting with President Asif Ali Zardari, a friend and ally of Mr. Taseer. But the killing has further weakened the Zardari administration -- so badly that almost none of the country's top leaders were willing to attend his funeral or condemn his killing.
Instead, the leaders signaled that they would drop their advocacy of changing the blasphemy laws that Mr. Taseer had opposed. Those laws, a leftover of the Zia era, mandate a death sentence for anyone convicted of insulting Islam.
The third level is less discussed, at least publicly. But it may be the most frightening. It is the question of what this killing may indicate about the security of Pakistan's nuclear weapons, whose number and location are among the country's greatest secrets. For years, Pakistani officials have described an intense vetting system to make sure that ''fundos,'' as the Pakistanis call the fundamentalists, are not involved in protecting the country's nuclear assets. A similar system, they said, was supposed to assure that armed bodyguards are loyal to the government, and to the officials they are supposed to protect.
By all accounts, Mr. Taseer was shot, at a public market, more than twenty times -- and none of the other guards in the area shot at his alleged 26-year-old attacker, Malik Mumtaz Qadri, a member of an elite police force.
No one is saying how Mr. Qadri, who smiled at the cheers he received from exultant supporters, got through the vetting process. But one American official said, ''it's one more reason to give pause'' when thinking about what could happen if a like-minded guard or scientist decided to make his point by seizing nuclear materials.
It is a subject American officials never talk about in public. But they do in private, as the WikiLeaks cables that emerged from the American embassy in Pakistan made clear. ''Our major concern,'' Anne W. Patterson, then the American ambassador, wrote to Washington on Feb. 4, 2009, ''is not having an Islamic militant steal an entire weapon but rather the chance someone working in GOP [Government of Pakistan] facilities could gradually smuggle enough material out to eventually make a weapon.''
In an angry reaction to the disclosure of Ms. Patterson's secret cable, Pakistani officials said this was another American-generated conspiracy theory, probably intended to justify secret American military plans to seize the country's atomic arsenal in case of a political meltdown. They explained, again, that anyone who gets inside the high walls of the country's nuclear facilities first has to pass a ''personal reliability program'' run by the Strategic Plans Division, which is in charge of nuclear security. The program is designed to screen out Taliban sympathizers, religious extremists and Al Qaeda spies.
So far, despite one or two scares, it has worked -- at least since 2003, when Pakistan broke up the black market in nuclear weapons technology run by A. Q. Khan, a founder of its nuclear program. But Mr. Riedel, a former C.I.A. officer and author of the soon-to-be-published ''Deadly Embrace: Pakistan, America and the Future of the Global Jihad'' (Brookings Institution Press, 2011), said: ''This assassination raises further questions about the vetting process in the Pakistani security system. And it's worth remembering that on their list of potential threats to their nuclear assets, the United States is No. 1, and terrorists and religious fundamentalists are further down the line.''
For Pakistan itself, the assassination suggests that its internal upheavals are bound up with its myriad economic problems. And these threaten to exacerbate the country's many divisions.
For years the country has been under pressure from America, other lenders and creditors, and the International Monetary Fund to enact a series of economic reforms. Pakistan's wealthy elite rarely pay taxes, and the huge divide between them and the country's desperately poor breeds resentments. Those feelings, in turn, create conditions that insurgents can easily exploit.
Last year, during a visit to Pakistan, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton minced few words in declaring that serious economic reform had to get underway, and Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani pushed through increases in fuel prices that edged toward those reforms. But after another major political party quit the governing coalition, threatening to undo the government, Mr. Gilani announced on Thursday that the fuel price increase -- aimed at the country's wealthy -- would be rolled back. Other economic reforms seem dead in the water.
''The country's economic team knows what's needed, but there is no political will,'' said Shuja Nawaz, the direct of the South Asia Center of the Atlantic Council. The I.M.F. has already warned Pakistan that billions in aid are dependent on the country carrying through on promised reforms. But politicians facing ouster from power or condemnation by the global financial markets almost always choose the second.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXULTANT Militants waiting to cheer an assassin threw rose petals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY B. K. BANGASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK1)
 IN MOURNING: Civil society supporters remembered the slain governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIF ALI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); TALIBAN (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



268 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Facing Scrutiny, Banks Slow Down Foreclosures

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- An array of federal and state investigations into the way banks foreclose on delinquent homeowners has contributed to a sharp slowdown in foreclosures across the country, especially in hard-hit cities like this one.
Over the last several months, some banks have been reluctant to seize homes from distressed borrowers, economists and government officials say, as they face scrutiny from regulators and the prospect of sanctions when investigations wrap up in the coming weeks and months.
The Obama administration, in its most recent housing report, said foreclosure activity fell 21 percent in November from October, the biggest monthly decline in five years. Here in Phoenix, foreclosures fell by more than a third in the same period, reflected in the severe drop in foreclosed homes being auctioned on the courthouse plaza.
''There's no product, just nothing to buy,'' complained Sean Waak, an agent for investors, during a recent auction. 
The pace of foreclosures could be curtailed further by courts. In a closely watched case, the highest court in Massachusetts invalidated two foreclosures in that state on Friday. The court ruled that two banks, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo, failed to prove they owned the mortgages when they foreclosed on the homes.
If the slowdown continued through this month and into the spring, it could be a boost for the economy. Reducing foreclosures in a meaningful way would act to stabilize the housing market, real estate experts say, letting the administration patch up one of the economy's most persistently troubled sectors. Fewer foreclosures means that buyers pay more for the ones that do come to market, which strengthens overall home prices and builds consumer confidence in housing.
''Anything that buys time, that reduces the supply of houses coming onto the market, is helpful,'' said Karl Guntermann, a professor of real estate finance at Arizona State University.
It is not that borrowers have stopped defaulting on their mortgages. They are missing payments as frequently as ever, data shows. But the lenders are not beginning formal foreclosure proceedings or, when they are, do not complete them with an auction sale. And in the most favorable outcome for distressed borrowers, some lenders are modifying loans so foreclosure becomes unnecessary.
The drop in foreclosures began in late September when some lenders were revealed to have been using so-called robo-signers to process thousands of foreclosures without verifying the accuracy of the data. As the investigations into the problems proceeded, the uncertainty caused many lenders to become more cautious.
Their foreclosure procedures, the banks have repeatedly said, are sound. But preliminary results of several of the investigations have indicated substantial problems. Coordinating many of the inquiries is the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, established by President Obama.
''The administration is committed to taking appropriate action on these issues where wrongdoing has occurred,'' said Melanie Roussell, an administration spokeswoman.
The diminished supply of foreclosed homes has already had an effect on prices at the auctions on the courthouse plaza here, bidders said.
Houses change hands on the plaza with a minimum of ceremony. Three sets of trustees hired by the banks sit a few feet apart, their backs to a statue of a naked family looking for all the world as if its members had just been cast out of their home. The trustees call off properties in a monotone to bidders clustered around them. Winners must immediately hand over a $10,000 deposit in the form of a cashier's check.
On a recent afternoon, one bidder, Pam Mullavey of Infoclosure, found herself in a bidding war with Chris Romuzga of Posted Properties for a 2001 house that had fetched $644,000 at the very peak of the boom.
This time around, the bank set the floor at $271,000. Ms. Mullavey and Mr. Romuzga rapidly pushed up the price in varying increments of $100 and $500. Mr. Romuzga's client had planned to pull out at $307,000 but asked him to keep bidding as Ms. Mullavey sailed on. Her winning bid was $310,100, well above what a similar house might have fetched just a few months ago.
''Sometimes I wonder why people are bidding so much,'' Ms. Mullavey said.
For Mr. Romuzga, it was the fourth time that afternoon he had been outbid. Only once had he secured a property.
The investors' frustration could be a good thing for Phoenix homeowners, who have seen values fall 54.5 percent since 2006. In the last few months, home prices have started to drop again. A decline in foreclosures, economists say, could break the fall.
Cameron Findlay, chief economist with the mortgage company LendingTree, said that the shifting behavior of lenders had helped change perceptions about the foreclosed.
''Initially, society's view was to run them out of the house,'' he said.
That resulted in vacant and dilapidated homes, which blighted neighborhoods and drove potential buyers away.
''People should be hopeful the modification programs work -- for their own benefit,'' said Mr. Findlay.
More than four million households are in serious default and vulnerable to losing their homes. Lenders maintain that cases of borrowers improperly foreclosed are extremely rare.
But the Federal Reserve, which is investigating lenders' policies in conjunction with other banking regulators, has found significant weaknesses in risk management, quality control, auditing and compliance.
Another investigation is being conducted by the Federal Housing Administration, which is examining whether loan servicers are exhausting all legally required options before foreclosing on government-insured mortgages. An agency spokeswoman said that initial reviews indicated ''significant differences'' in efforts by servicers to keep borrowers in their homes.
A third investigation is being conducted by the Executive Office for U.S. Trustees, part of the Justice Department. It is looking into documentation errors by lenders and their law firms in homeowners' bankruptcy filings.
At the state level, there is a joint effort by all 50 state attorneys general, with the specific goal of changing the face of foreclosure in America by making it more difficult for lenders to act against homeowners. The effort, led by Iowa's attorney general, Tom Miller, is in flux as several prominent attorneys general left office and their replacements decide whether to make foreclosure reform a priority.
There have been many attempts during the housing crash to stem the flow of foreclosures, only fitfully successful. Some experts think neither federal reforms nor any agreements brokered by the attorneys general will make much of a difference.
''Whether it is really true that there are millions of foreclosures that could be avoided if servicers were just more willing to do more modifications that make sense -- meaning overall losses would be less than would otherwise be the case -- is far from clear, and in fact highly unlikely,'' said Tom Lawler, an economist.
Loan servicers are not set up to identify the true financial picture of each borrower having trouble, Mr. Lawler said, and cannot easily figure out who is likely to stop paying without a modification and who will keep sending a check every month.
The courthouse plaza bidders in Phoenix do not believe their livelihood is threatened. By the end of January, several bidders predicted, lenders would gear up and foreclosures would once again be abundant.
In the meantime, Tom Peltier watched unhappily as a house started at $68,000 and quickly spiraled up. He finally locked it in at $98,500. ''That was about 20 grand more than I wanted to pay,'' said Mr. Peltier, who planned to rent it to his sister as soon as he moved out the former owner.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Investigations Into Foreclosure Practices: At least four major investigations are under way into the way banks have processed home foreclosures. Several other, sometimes overlapping, investigations have been announced by the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Additionally, three state attorneys general have recently filed court cases against lenders alleging deceptive practices. Ohio has sued GMAC, and Arizona and Nevada have separately sued Bank of America.
 In Phoenix, Decline In Home Foreclosures: Home foreclosures in Phoenix began dropping off last September, after lenders were accused of using robo-signers to quickly process paperwork without verifying that details were correct. (Source: DataQuick Information Systems) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); U S BANCORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); USB (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



269 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: About That $100 Billion

 BODY:
It has been four months since John Boehner, now speaker of the House, first proposed to cut $100 billion from this year's budget, an idea that was later elevated to a ''pledge to America'' in the 2010 campaign. Last week, Mr. Boehner finally specified his first actual cut: $35 million from House lawmakers' office budgets.
Precisely because it is puny and painless, the cut passed the House with broad support, showing once again that the path to bipartisanship in Washington is paved with giveaways (like deficit-increasing tax cuts) and grandstanding (like trivial spending cuts dressed up as deficit reduction). 
The road to fiscal responsibility is a harder one. Even as Republican leaders tout the $100 billion goal, aides have said it will be $50 billion to $60 billion, to adjust for the fact that the fiscal year is already under way. Whatever the sum, the public needs to know from Mr. Boehner what specific programs and services Republicans are willing to cut. The question is pressing, but not because the cuts are pressing. On the contrary, cutting billions would be foolish at a time when joblessness is high and the recovery needs stimulus, not tightening.
The question is important because without specifics, there can be no real debate on the best ways to reduce the deficit. Spending cuts need not and should not start today, but the nation needs to put a credible plan in place now to reduce the deficit as the economy recovers.
Campaigning is not the same as governing, and this prolonged state of political posture invites budget gimmicks and, worse, portends dangerous deadline-driven showdowns over who seems most willing to cut spending. This spring, for instance, Republicans could try to attach a demand for unspecified, across-the-board cuts to must-pass legislation to raise the nation's debt limit.
If successful, that would allow them to take credit for spending reductions without ever having to explain what, specifically, they want to cut, or defend those decisions. Why the reluctance to specify?
While House Republican leaders have not said what they would cut, they have said what they would spare: defense. They have also pledged to shield seniors from spending cuts, apparently to please recipients of entitlements like Medicare and Social Security. They also zealously defend the huge sums the country spends to give tax breaks to people who do not need them.
That leaves programs totaling $477 billion -- 14 percent of the $3.5 trillion federal budget -- to absorb the promised cuts, including education, environment, transportation, diplomacy, disease control, scientific research, investor protection, and all other basic government programs on which the quality of American life depends.
Spread evenly, the cuts would come to more than 20 percent in each broad category. Cuts that deep in a single year have occurred only once, from 2009 to 2010, when the temporary increase from the stimulus reverted to more normal levels. Otherwise they are unprecedented, and no wonder. A 20 percent cut in education, for instance, would take some $8 billion out of federal money for schools, deepening the teacher layoffs and other cutbacks already enacted by states.
And for what? Cutting any arbitrary amount -- like $100 billion -- from discretionary spending will not result in meaningful long-term deficit reduction because deficits are not driven by discretionary spending. They are driven by rising health care costs and chronic tax shortfalls. Such cuts are even unlikely to result in near-term deficit reduction, because lawmakers would have to vote each year to keep spending at the newly depressed levels, an unlikely -- and undesirable -- prospect.
House Republicans claim that voters elected them in November to cut spending. Let's hear the specifics, and then see what the people want.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); DEBT CEILING (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); MEDICARE (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



270 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: What's Bipartisan?

 BODY:
What's Bipartisan?
To the Editor:
Perhaps your Economic View column of Jan. 2, by N. Gregory Mankiw, had the wrong headline. Instead of ''How to Break Bread With the Republicans,'' it could have been more accurately titled ''How Democrats Should Serve Tea and Scones to Republican Elites.'' 
I hope President Obama eschews Mr. Mankiw's generous offers of advice -- like his suggestion to abandon a philosophy of wealth redistribution in favor of expanded opportunities for all. Yes, we need more opportunity for the economically less advantaged, but when such a small percentage of the population controls such a vast majority of the nation's wealth, it's time to shore up the safety net and entitlement programs so that many Americans don't fall through the economy's cracks.
The president has repeatedly reached out to the right, only to be rebuffed, rejected or ignored. But after the midterm election, the party of ''no'' now has to take some responsibility for real leadership in Congress. No more obstructionism, please; it's time for legislating.
Mr. Mankiw says he wants the president to be able to get inside the heads of Republicans. Well, we know what's inside their heads, and we just don't agree. Traffic flows both ways on our streets.
Richard V. Manoukian
Terrace Park, Ohio, Jan. 3
To the Editor:
Could Mr. Mankiw explain to me how the many folks I encounter who make a living working in fast-food restaurants and hotels at minimum-wage jobs without benefits should take advantage of the opportunities of which he writes?
Regrettably, our society is made up of significant numbers of individuals who have achieved their limits in the opportunity business and still have no health insurance and barely enough to achieve a reasonably balanced diet. How do the column's dreams of opportunities help them? Is there not only a role for government, but also a need?
Martin Bergmann, M.D.
St. Louis, Jan. 2
To the Editor:
I agree with N. Gregory Mankiw that there should be compromise whenever possible between President Obama and the Republicans. In fact, I like some of his advice for the president.
But there seems to be little taste for compromise among Republican leaders. Representative John A. Boehner, the new House speaker, recently rejected the use of the word ''compromise'' on ''60 Minutes,'' despite repeated questions from the reporter. And Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader, famously said that the No. 1 priority was to ensure that the president not be re-elected.
Does this sound like openness to compromise?
Steven M. Clayton
Pittsburgh, Jan. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); NUTRITION (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); FAST FOOD (50%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (52%) MISSOURI, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



271 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Emanuel Says He Favors Reduced Pensions for Current City Workers, Not Just New Hires

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS. 
dmihalopoulos@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In contrast to his main rivals in the mayor's race, Rahm Emanuel has told labor leaders that he favors reducing pension benefits for the city's existing work force and not just for new hires. 
Although Mr. Emanuel has not yet publicly detailed his plan to confront the city's perennial budget deficits and the severely underfinanced employee pension funds, he told union officials in a private meeting on Dec. 15 that he thought it could be necessary to cut the pensions of all employees, said people who attended the meeting.
Mr. Emanuel made the comments while he was being interviewed by leaders of the Chicago Federation of Labor. That umbrella group for 300 unions has not yet endorsed any of the candidates who will be running in the Feb. 22 election to succeed Mayor Richard M. Daley, who is retiring.
''The sticking issue for all of us is the pension issue,'' said a labor activist who attended the meeting with Mr. Emanuel. ''I can't tell my members we are going to support a guy who is going to cut your pensions.''
The labor leader and others who attended the meeting said they did not want to be identified for fear that Mr. Emanuel would retaliate if he were elected.
Mr. Emanuel plans to disclose his position on city finances in a speech sometime in February, said Ben LaBolt, his spokesman. Told of the union officials' accounts of the endorsement session, Mr. LaBolt said, ''Rahm told the truth about the financial conditions of the pension system and the crisis that it faces.''
In a statement, Mr. LaBolt added that Mr. Emanuel believed ''fundamental reform'' was necessary to ensure that workers would receive pension benefits when they retire.
''Rahm knows -- and Chicagoans understand -- that the pension system as currently constructed is not an honest system,'' Mr. LaBolt said. ''It's not fair for taxpayers, and it's not fair for city workers.''
Public employees' retirement funds have been hit hard not only by the weak economy but also by early-retirement offers, wage increases and the Chicago Public Schools' partial ''pension holiday,'' which has allowed the district to reduce its pension contributions.
A new state law will require Chicago and other cities in Illinois to contribute more money toward pensions for police officers and firefighters. Mr. Daley strenuously objected to that change, warning that it would result in the biggest property tax increase in Chicago's history.
State lawmakers also approved changes last year that limit pension benefits and raise the retirement age for new public employees, but that legislation did not affect workers already on the payroll.
The mayoral candidates Miguel del Valle, Carol Moseley Braun and Gery Chico have said they favor a two-tier pension system with reduced benefits only for new hires.
''I just don't think it's right for current employees contracted under certain terms to be told, 'No, that's not going to happen,' '' said Mr. del Valle, the city clerk, adding that he believes doing so would violate the State Constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); LEGISLATION (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (57%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



272 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Let Obama's Reagan Revolution Begin

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA'S Christmas resurrection was so miraculous that even a birther or two may start believing the guy is a Christian.
Nothing captured the president's sudden reversal of fortune more vividly than the Linda Blair-like head spin of the conservative pundit Charles Krauthammer, who pronounced the Obama agenda ''dead'' on Fox News on Nov. 3 only to lead the bipartisan media hordes anointing him ''the new comeback kid'' six weeks later. Last week Obama's Gallup job approval rating fleetingly hit 50 percent for the first time in eight months. Even in post-shellacking mid-December, polls found that Americans still trusted him more than Washington's Republican leaders to fix the nation's ills -- health care included, according to the ABC News-Washington Post survey on that question. 
As the do-something lame-duck Congress's triumphs were toted up, the White House pointedly floated the news that the president was meeting with Reagan administration veterans (David Gergen, Ken Duberstein) and taking Lou Cannon's authoritative biography ''President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime'' on vacation. Reagan, of course, was also pummeled (though a bit less so) in his maiden midterms of 1982, then carried 49 states in his 1984 re-election landslide. In January 1983, Reagan's approval rating was much worse than Obama's -- 35 percent. So was the unemployment rate (10.4 percent vs. our current 9.4 percent) as Americans struggled to recover from what was then the deepest economic downturn since the Great Depression.
My poll-crunching Times colleague Nate Silver has already poured cold water on the fantasy that history is fated to repeat itself in 2012. His numbers show zero correlation between presidents' post-midterms popularity and their fates two years later. But if Obama actually read Cannon, his comeback could have legs. It's full of leadership lessons that will be particularly useful in outfoxing political adversaries who seem not to have consulted so much as a picture book about the president they claim as their patron saint.
The right's Stepford fetishization of Reagan reached a farcical apotheosis last week when a moderator of a debate for the Republican National Committee chairmanship tried to curtail the ritualistic bloviation by asking aspirants to name their political hero ''aside from President Reagan.'' This trick question so nonplussed one candidate that he coughed up ''Ludwig von Mises of FreedomWorks.'' Another flustered respondent chose Margaret Thatcher, perhaps fearing it would be politically incorrect to venture an answer more than one degree of separation from the big Gipper.
The present-day radicals donning Reagan drag, led by Sarah Palin, seem not to know, as Cannon writes, that their hero lurched ''from excessive tax cuts to corrective tax increases disguised as tax reform'' and ''submitted eight unbalanced budgets to Congress in succession.'' Reagan made no promise whatsoever of a balanced budget in the document that codified Reaganomics, his White House's 281-page message to Congress in February 1981. The historian Gil Troy has calculated that spending on entitlement programs more than doubled on Reagan's watch. America slid into debtor-nation status, and Americans ''went from owing 16 cents for every dollar in national income in 1981'' to owing 44 cents per dollar in 1988.
It's also likely that Reagan would have drifted off -- like most Americans -- during the pretentious recitation of the Constitution in the House. He prided himself on serving as a true citizen-politician and, as Cannon writes, saw no problem in being ''completely ignorant of even civics-book information about how bills were passed.''
What Reagan did know was how to deliver a message, even if that message belied his policies or actions or the facts. While perhaps no politician can ever duplicate Reagan's brand of sunny and homespun (if Hollywood-honed) geniality, Obama has his own radiance when he wants to turn it on -- a quality Reagan opponents like Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale lacked and that is beyond the imagination of frothing-at-the-mouth Tea Partiers. But Obama is less adept at keeping his messages simple, consistent and crystal-clear.
In a particularly instructive passage, Cannon tells of Reagan's habit of endlessly recycling an inspirational World War II anecdote that, as the press discovered, was a movie-spawned fiction. His White House spokesman, Larry Speakes, was only half-joking when he deflected critics with the old saw ''if you tell the same story five times, it's true.'' Unlike Reagan, Obama doesn't invent or fantasize. But he has trouble telling even some true stories five times -- and telling them well -- which is why he now has to resell the health care bill more than nine months after he signed it.
Reagan's talents also included an ability to pick adversaries and hammer them relentlessly -- without losing his cool -- whether air-traffic controllers or the ''evil empire.'' Though Obama ultimately stopped vilifying the Bush administration for the economic disaster he inherited, Reagan never backed off bashing the Democrats and the 30-year Great Society ''binge'' for the fiscal woes of his America. Reagan got away with it because he never sounded like a whiner, and because he paired his invective with an optimism that bleached out any pettiness. A former Democrat, after all, he wisely chose F.D.R. as his political model.
That pitch-perfect showmanship, timing and salesmanship (his father was a salesman) were in Reagan's resume and bones. Obama doesn't have that training, but he was a great communicator when it came to selling his own story in the campaign, heaven knows. He has rarely rekindled that touch in the White House -- even during his December run of good fortune. His recent Congressional victories should not obscure the reality that, the tax-cut deal notwithstanding, he still disappeared at key moments when he should have led the charge.
Nowhere was he more AWOL than in the battle over aiding 9/11 emergency workers poisoned by the toxic debris at ground zero. Supporting a bill to reward brave Americans who paid with their health or their lives to serve others was tantamount to voting for the flag -- a far more patriotic gesture than, say, reading aloud the Constitution. Yet Republicans in Congress caricatured it as a ''slush fund'' inviting ''abuse, fraud and waste'' (Lamar Smith of Texas, the incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee) and ''an expansive new health care entitlement program'' (Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma). All 41 Republicans present in the Senate voted to block its passage while giving top priority to protecting tax cuts for the superrich. But rather than lead this easily winnable battle from uncontestable high ground, the White House remained largely silent, releasing only a written statement of support for the bill. The president never spoke publicly about it at all.
Obama didn't have to demagogue the issue. He didn't have to pitch a fit, as Anthony Weiner, the New York congressman, did for the benefit of C-Span cameras last summer. But it's hard to imagine a more clear-cut teaching moment for a president to explain how intransigent right-wing ideology can violate fundamental American values of fairness and sacrifice. Instead, that job fell to others, which is why a novice senator, Kirsten Gillibrand, and a late-night television star, Jon Stewart, could be found taking a victory lap over the bill's passage on ''The Daily Show'' last week: they had stepped into the leadership vacuum left by Obama.
With his vastly reduced Capitol Hill cohort, Obama's next two years are going to be less about pushing bills through Congress and more about pushing the presidency to the max. Win or lose, he'll have to be more vocal in other fights, starting with immigration reform, where bedrock American principles of fairness are at stake. He'll also have to finally find a unifying story to unite his economic philosophy, for if he never defines Obamanomics, his opponents will keep labeling it as tax-and-spend socialism instead.
And surely he must start wielding Reaganesque humor at the rapidly thickening blizzard of Tea Party hypocrisies. A ''there you go again'' -- or two or three or four -- will come in handy when mocking antigovernment zealots like the newly elected Representative Vicky Hartzler of Missouri, who last week repeatedly ducked Diane Sawyer's simple inquiry as to whether she would end federal farm subsidies (her family farm has collected some $775,000) now that she's in Washington.
In the 1984 election, The Times's exit poll found that by far the single biggest factor in Reagan's landslide was the perception that the economy had turned around and that unemployment, though still high (7.2 percent), was falling rapidly. The second most important factor was leadership. A September poll had showed that Americans gave Mondale more credit for caring about people and for having a vision for America's future. But the perception that Reagan was a strong leader, ''forceful'' rather than ''cautious,'' trumped all else. He was affable, sure, and made compromises to get legislation on the scoreboard, but he was not a bipartisan wuss. Voters rewarded his campaign slogan, ''Leadership That's Working,'' even though his Morning-in-America agenda was a Madison Avenue homily, not a program for leading America anywhere specific in his second term.
At this point the speed of our own halting recovery is not in the president's hands. The ability to remake his style of leadership still is. But that makeover can come only from him, not from old Clinton hands in a reshuffled West Wing. Without it, the miracle of his Christmas resurrection could be over by Easter.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011



273 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Can You Trust the Market?

 BODY:
The stock market was up in the first week of 2011 -- following rallies in 2009 and 2010 -- but many investors are still wary. According to the Investment Company Institute, a mutual funds trade group, 2010 was the fourth year in a row that individual investors withdrew more money than they added to funds that invest in American stocks. Some $80 billion was withdrawn in 2010, on top of nearly $240 billion in the three years before that. 
Why the retreat? One explanation is reasonable doubt about the economy. Of late, profits, and related stock-market gains, have been fueled not by increased revenues but by layoffs and other cuts -- an unsustainable pattern. Another explanation is a loss of faith in financial markets. The Dodd-Frank reform law could help restore that faith, but the new Republican majority in the House has vowed to try to block the law's implementation, including regulations to make deal-making by banks more transparent. Some Democrats may join in.
Without reform, investors are right to be leery. The stock market has crashed twice in the past decade -- after the tech bubble burst in 2000 and as the full force of the financial crisis struck in 2008. Long-term, buy-and-hold investors are still nursing losses because of reckless games played by big banks and short-term traders.
Last year's ''flash crash'' also showed the powerful potential for instability in a market dominated by high-speed trading. Regulators have put in safeguards, but more are needed, including a ban on ''flash trades'' that let some traders buy and sell using nonpublic data.
Meanwhile, other investor protections may face opposition. In the debate on financial reform, Senator Tim Johnson, a Democrat of South Dakota, fought a provision that would have required stockbrokers who give investment advice to act in their clients' best interest and not in their own interest in selling expensive products. Instead, Congress told the Securities and Exchange Commission to study the issue -- and report back this month. Mr. Johnson now leads the Banking Committee. We fear that means a tough road ahead for even this basic protection.
Industry lobbyists are also fighting investor protections. They have pushed back against proposals to limit excessive mutual fund fees and have filed a lawsuit to block a rule to give investors a bigger say in who serves on corporate boards. No wonder investors are cautious.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); LOBBYING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



274 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Staying Afloat Down Under

BYLINE: By NICK EARLS. 
Nick Earls is the author, most recently, of ''The True Story of Butterfish.''

 BODY:
Brisbane, Australia
THERE was cricket in Sydney last week. The crowd wore pink fluorescent wigs and hats cut from watermelons. Shirts were optional. Australians are fun-loving when there is fun to be had. It's part of our national character. So is our disregard for authority, which we celebrate, while at the same time being one of the most law-abiding nations on earth.
That's what the rest of the world sees, and it's all true. But we want to see something more in ourselves, a hard-working stoicism -- and right now it's the northeast state of Queensland, where once-in-a-century flooding has devastated countless communities, that shows it most clearly. 
All maps of Queensland are deceptive. They show inland plains crossed by rivers, always colored blue. It's tempting to imagine riverboats hauling freight, green fields stretching out from either bank, industrial towns and cities drawing water for their factories.
What the maps don't reveal is that the rivers are often only possibilities. Many are dry for years, their waters long since soaked up by the parched ground and left as a chain of water holes.
The maps also don't say that, every few years, the rivers flood. Once in a generation, they cover the land. And sometimes, like now, they tear the state apart.
To the north and west of Brisbane, the state capital and my hometown, Queensland faces a flood affecting an area the size of Texas and Oklahoma combined. The mines that supply one-third of the world's coking coal are shut down. Crops have been destroyed and the soil that grew them has been carried away. Mercifully few lives have been lost so far, but the economic impact has been estimated at $5 billion. Some 200,000 people have been affected, many of them forced from their homes by water and mud.
Nevertheless, there is none of the clamor of disaster, none of the chaos one might expect. Crisis management plans have been activated. Townships, towns and cities are hard at work, not only as governments but as communities. Neighbors are helping neighbors, and then helping people they have never met. When the hard-hit coastal city of Rockhampton put a call out over the radio for people to fill sandbags, 70 volunteers turned up within minutes.
There's a calm resilience too. Rockhampton's Fitzroy Hotel, surrounded by floodwaters that have risen to an inch or so below its floorboards, has rebranded itself as the Fitzroy Float-El. Its customers now arrive by boat. Inside, on the widescreen TVs normally tuned to sports, the Fitzroy is showing footage of the last inundation, 19 years ago. Veterans of that flood are turning up to watch themselves filling sandbags, back when they were thinner and had more hair.
Even after the rain stops, we're told, it will be weeks before all the water is gone. As the less-fortunate evacuees return home, they will find mud everywhere: in their filing cabinets, their kitchen cupboards, their photo albums. As I learned in the aftermath of the Brisbane flood of 1974, the smell will remain for years -- a swampy stench that comes out of the walls and down from the ceiling on hot days.
Those people will need room for grief and anger. Most of them, though, when interviewed standing in the wreckage, talk about how life goes on.
Events like this flood not only show our stoicism, but create it. It's important to Queenslanders, like all Australians, that we see ourselves as people who look adversity in the eye, stare it down and band together to overcome it.
Houses will be repaired, and new ones will be built. Businesses will get back to work. In ground that was baked dry but is now soaked deep, eggs will hatch, seeds will germinate and hidden species will reveal themselves and make the most of this change in their luck before the next drought sets in. Life will go on and, for farmers and those dependent on the land, the next crop should be a good one, if the weather holds.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



275 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: 'Buy American' Clause May Be Sticking Point in Chinese State Visit

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Sewell Chan contributed reporting from Denver.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The military appropriations law signed by President Obama on Friday contains a little-noticed ''Buy American'' provision for the Defense Department purchases of solar panels -- a provision that is likely to dismay Chinese officials as President Hu Jintao prepares to visit the United States next week.
Although there are many big issues to discuss, including concerns about North Korea, trade and economic matters are certain to be high on the agenda. And while both sides are aiming to keep the discussion positive -- the United States is the world's largest importer and China the largest exporter of goods -- simmering resentments over trade in green-energy technologies could be a distraction.
China has emerged as the world's dominant producer of solar panels in the last two years. It accounted for at least half the world's production last year, and its market share is rising rapidly. The United States accounts for $1.6 billion of the world's $29 billion market for solar panels; market analyses typically have not broken out military sales separately. 
The perception that Beijing unfairly subsidizes the Chinese solar industry to the detriment of American companies and other foreign competitors has drawn concern in Congress. The issue of clean-energy subsidies is also at the heart of a trade investigation under way by the Obama administration, which plans to bring a case against China before the World Trade Organization.
The new Buy American provision, created mainly by House and Senate conferees during a flurry of activity at the end of the lame-duck session of Congress, prevents the Defense Department from buying Chinese-made solar panels.
The American military is a rapidly growing consumer of renewable energy products, because it is extremely expensive and frequently dangerous to ship large quantities of fuel into remote areas of Iraq and Afghanistan.
The solar panel provision is carefully written to help it comply with the free trade rules of the World Trade Organization, which would make it hard for China to ask a W.T.O. tribunal to overturn the provision, trade lawyers said.
Chinese leaders have strongly criticized such provisions in the past, particularly one in President Obama's economic stimulus package in early 2009 that applied to government procurement of steel and construction materials.
But China required in the late spring of 2009 that virtually all of its $600 billion economic stimulus be spent within China, not just for construction materials.
Chinese officials in Beijing and Washington did not respond on Saturday or Sunday to requests for comment on the solar panel provision.
While the United States and Europe have focused on subsidizing buyers of solar panels, China has emphasized subsidies for solar panel manufacturers. It then exports virtually all of its panels to the United States and Europe, often helped by the American and European consumer subsidies.
The solar panel provision in the defense appropriations law comes as President Obama has ordered a broad investigation into whether Chinese export subsidies, local content requirements and other rules have violated W.T.O. rules. As a result of the investigation, the United States started a W.T.O. case on Dec. 22 against what it said were Chinese wind turbine manufacturing subsidies.
American trade officials said then that they were still examining other Chinese clean-energy subsidy policies to decide whether to file additional W.T.O. cases.
The solar panel provision was part of the initial defense appropriations bill passed by the House. The House version had a simple requirement that the Defense Department buy solar panels made in the United States.
The Senate, which has been more leery of interfering with free trade, had no comparable provision, however, and many people in the solar panel industry did not expect the final law to have such a provision.
But the conference of House and Senate leaders ended up retaining the House provision and modifying it, by adding legal language to require that it also comply with previous American trade legislation.
Representative Maurice Hinchey, Democrat of New York, said he had fought for the provision to be included in the bill.
''We've had a lot of money taken out of this country and invested in other places around the world, particularly China, and particularly in alternative energies,'' he said in an interview by phone. ''For them to be producing alternative energy, that's great, but we need to do it ourselves, and as much of it as possible.''
Mr. Hinchey said he did not think the provision would jeopardize relations with the Chinese ahead of Mr. Hu's visit. ''We have provided them with a lot of economic growth there,'' he said. ''A lot of money has gone out of this country and into China, and a lot of manufacturing operations, particularly alternative energy, has also gone into China.''
Mr. Hinchey had praised the Obama administration in November for starting a broad investigation into Chinese subsidies for solar and wind energy exports, saying then that these subsidies had put a company in his district, Prism Solar Technologies of Highland, N.Y., at a competitive disadvantage.
Two prominent trade lawyers said in e-mails over the weekend that the law's language meant that in practice, the Defense Department must buy solar panels from any country that signs the W.T.O.'s side agreement on government procurement. Earlier American trade laws require compliance with that agreement.
Virtually all industrialized countries have signed the side agreement, which requires free trade in government purchases. China vowed to sign it as soon as possible when it joined the W.T.O. in November 2001, but still has not done so.
The two trade lawyers said that the United States was within its rights to discriminate against Chinese solar panels in military procurement.
''The W.T.O. Government Procurement Agreement allows signatory countries, including the United States in its Defense Department contracts, to favor goods from countries that have signed that agreement over countries that have not,'' said Carolyn B. Gleason, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery in Washington who is one of the best-known litigators of W.T.O. cases.
Alan Wolff, a former senior American trade official who is now the chairman of the trade practice at the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf in Washington, said that it was hard to understand China's resistance to signing the agreement. ''There would be a clear benefit both for it and its trading partners,'' he said.
Solar panels are technologically complex to manufacture, and are made almost entirely in industrialized countries that have signed the W.T.O. side agreement -- or in China.
Inland Chinese provinces and cities have strongly lobbied Beijing not to sign the agreement because they want to retain the legal right to continue steering government contracts to local companies, said a trade policy adviser to the Chinese government who insisted on anonymity because of the political sensitivity of the issue.
The Buy American provision in the 2009 economic stimulus legislation also has a little-known clause allowing purchases from other countries that have signed the Government Procurement Agreement, and not just from American suppliers.
Ocean Yuan, the chief executive and president of Grape Solar, a company based in Eugene, Ore., that distributes mostly mainland Chinese solar panels but also American, Japanese and Taiwanese panels, said that imported panels typically cost 20 percent less than American-made panels.
Mr. Yuan predicted that the new legislation would have a big effect on the American solar panel market, by encouraging Chinese solar panel manufacturers to establish factories in the United States. ''This policy will certainly have a negative impact on the imported solar panels from China, which have lower cost over all due to lower labor and overhead costs,'' he said.
Grape Solar sold $500,000 worth of Chinese-made solar panels to the American military shortly before Christmas, Mr. Yuan said, adding that he expected future contracts to specify American-made panels.
The legislative provision was welcomed by SolarWorld, a German company that is one of the biggest manufacturers of solar panels in the United States and which has not followed the example of most manufacturers in moving production to China.
''As a long-standing and still-expanding American manufacturer of solar technology, SolarWorld is heartened that the U.S. government and military clearly grasp the critical role of domestically produced solar technology in the country's national-security future,'' said Bob Beisner, managing director of the company's American subsidiary in Hillsboro, Ore., which is already installing American-made solar panels at United States military facilities at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
The defense appropriations bill has another provision related to China. It requires that the military conduct an immediate review of its needs for rare earth metals, which are mined elements increasingly crucial in sophisticated technologies. About 95 percent of the world's supply comes from China.
The bill also requires the department to establish ''an assured source of supply'' for rare earth metals by 2015 and to consider setting up a stockpile.
Rare earths are essential for a wide range of military hardware, be it missiles or sonar. The Defense Department has been studying its contractors' reliance on Chinese supplies for more than a year. A draft report shared with Congressional aides last fall had a preliminary conclusion that rare earths were very important but suggested that the department's contractors continue to be allowed to buy them from any source.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A law that bars the Pentagon from buying Chinese solar panels could benefit a German firm making panels in Oregon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A solar installation at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. The military is increasingly eager for alternative energy because fossil fuels are dangerous and expensive to transport in war zones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HU JINTAO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



276 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Bloomberg Shovels Out

 BODY:
As Mayor Michael Bloomberg went to red alert for the small snowstorm that swept into New York City on Friday, it was fairly evident that the fuss over snow removal wasn't only, or even mostly, about snow. It was about the mayor. 
One year into his third term, Mr. Bloomberg has a dismal 37 percent approval rating, according to the Marist poll released on Thursday. Every New Yorker knows that Mr. Bloomberg has had better economic news to peddle, and has been making quite a name for himself on the national scene promoting big solutions to big issues.
The unease is about how he is doing back home, a concern that has been boiling for some time and spilled over after the post-Christmas blizzard, which overwhelmed the city and city government alike.
It did not help that the mayor's first advice to New Yorkers was essentially to quit whining, get out and go to a Broadway show. He later apologized and quickly reorganized how the Sanitation Department operated when this second snowstorm arrived.
But Mr. Bloomberg's problems with New Yorkers predated the storm. His choice of a non-educator, Cathleen Black, as schools chancellor felt idiosyncratic to many people. His Police Department, troubled about whether its famous statistics are valid, has finally found the need for a review by three former prosecutors.
Then there is the scandal involving CityTime, a system that was supposed to streamline employee timekeeping in the city. Federal prosecutors recently charged consultants in the project with an $80 million fraud scheme. And, as Comptroller John Liu has been saying for over a year, the project is years behind schedule and 10 times over its original budget of about $68 million.
Here we have a technology mix-up overseen by the mayor who made several sizable fortunes in technology, a management glitch for the mayor known as a management guru. Even his fuming about misplaced trust and ''no tolerance for this whatsoever'' doesn't explain enough about how so much of this slipshod work slipped past his desk unnoticed. Last week Mr. Liu canceled a $286 million contract for emergency communications ''to prevent CityTime 2.''
It is far too soon to write off the mayor's third term. We assume these are blemishes not full-fledged failures and that they give him an opportunity to do things better, just like in the weekend's baby snowstorm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); SCANDALS (65%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



277 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA DECODER; Hollywood Math: Bad to Worse

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
Probably the best thing about last week's dreary annual summary of home entertainment revenue from the Digital Entertainment Group is that the numbers weren't adjusted for inflation. That made the six-year tumble in cumulative spending on DVDs and other forms of home entertainment look only about half as bad as it really was. 
In the peak year of 2004, according to the group, which is an industrywide consortium of technology and entertainment companies, consumers spent about $21.8 billion to rent and buy DVDs, Blu-ray discs, digital downloads and other forms of home entertainment.
Under pressure from piracy, competing entertainment and economic weakness, the number has fallen every year since, for a total drop of about 13.8 percent, to $18.8 billion in 2010.
Unless, of course, you adjust to reflect the erosion in buying power of the dollar over the last six years. Plug the same $21.8 billion into an inflation calculator from the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics - a reality check that fantasy-minded Hollywood would love to avoid - and you find that it would take about $25.3 billion in current dollars to match that figure today.
That means home entertainment spending in 2010, when adjusted for inflation, was actually down almost 26 percent from 2004 - which helps explain all the layoffs, shutdowns and studio sales in the interim.
The domestic motion picture box office, meanwhile, rose nearly 14 percent, to roughly $10.6 billion last year from about $9.3 billion in 2004. Unless you adjust for inflation.
The federal government's inflation calculator says it would take about $10.8 billion today to match the buying power of the 2004 box office. So, in real terms, the box office has fallen nearly 2 percent since 2004.
The lines were long for ''Toy Story 3,'' and ''Avatar'' was a smash hit on Blu-ray and DVD. The entertainment industry, however, is still far below its recent peak.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); FILM (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



278 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Economists Express Caution On Forecasts in a Fed Study

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
DENVER -- Even as the Federal Reserve released new evidence that its plan to buy $600 billion of Treasury securities to stimulate the recovery is working, scholars remain skeptical about the program's effectiveness in the long run.
A new study by Fed researchers, released at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association, the world's largest gathering of academic economists, said the program could lead to a ''significant pickup'' in growth and the creation of roughly 700,000 jobs by 2012. 
Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's vice chairwoman, on Saturday used the study to offer a staunch defense of the program, which is supposed to last through June.
''It will not be a panacea, but I believe it will be effective in fostering maximum employment and price stability,'' Ms. Yellen said, referring to the two parts of the Fed's legal mandate. In November, the Fed started buying $75 billion a month in Treasury securities. The goal is to lower long-term interest rates and therefore ease borrowing by businesses and households, lift stock prices and stimulate exports by making the dollar somewhat cheaper relative to foreign currencies. The Fed is also trying to forestall deflation and the threat of a double-dip recession.
In essence, the study found that long-term rates fell on several occasions when the Fed signaled that it would buy bonds -- both the current $600 billion round, and an earlier series of purchases totaling $1.7 trillion.
N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist, said the findings should be interpreted cautiously. ''I think the implicit assumption here is that the impact on long-term interest rates is durable,'' he said. ''It's not like I'm sure they're wrong; I just don't think we can be sure they're right.''
Matthew D. Shapiro, an economist at the University of Michigan who has backed the Fed's asset purchases, said their ultimate effect might be psychological.
The Fed, he said, is sending a signal ''that they're doing what they can and not throwing in the towel.'' He added, ''With short-term rates at zero, operating at the level of long-term rates is the next, most obvious step. Most economists think the effects are not large. But the alternative was doing nothing.''
Criticism of the Fed's latest action -- commonly known as QE2, because it is the second round of the bond-buying strategy called quantitative easing -- has come down along at least four lines.
Some have objected by arguing that there has been an increase in structural unemployment that is not amenable to a quick fix by the government. Other critics fear that the Fed is risking future inflation by vastly increasing the quantity of reserves that banks hold at the central bank and that the Fed will not be able to unwind the policy when the time comes.
Still others say the Fed's bond-buying may generate future financial imbalances like the housing bubble that peaked in 2006. A fourth line of criticism says that the Fed will hamper growth in foreign economies by driving down the value of the dollar.
The study assumes that the Fed will complete the $600 billion in purchases through June, hold onto the bonds for about two years and then gradually sell them over the following five years. The estimate of 700,000 new nonfarm jobs is based on a complicated model the Fed uses to simulate economic conditions.
On Saturday, Ms. Yellen addressed each objection in turn. She said that weak demand for labor ''appears to be the predominant factor'' for the high unemployment rate. She said the Fed had the tools to ''drain hundreds of billions of dollars of reserves from the banking system'' and to gradually sell the assets it has bought, when the time comes to tighten monetary policy.
She also said there was no evidence of ''significant excesses or imbalances'' in the economy, noting that if anything, banks were not doing much lending. And she said the new bond purchases have had ''only moderate effects'' on the exchange rate of the dollar, adding: ''It is hard to believe that any foreign country would gain if our country were to fall back into another recession.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); DEFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CURRENCIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



279 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Exploitation of Day Laborers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Day laborers in New Jersey suffer ''rampant exploitation and abuse'' by their employers, said a new Seton Hall Universityreport to be released on Monday on wage theft and workplace conditions in day-labor jobs.
About half of the workers interviewed for the study said they had received less pay than was promised, or no pay at all, for at least one job in the past year, according to the report. Many employers also flouted workplace safety rules, the study said, despite state laws that grant the same protections to day laborers as to full-time workers, regardless of immigration status.
More than 40 percent of day laborers surveyed told the researchers that their employers had failed to provide them with safety equipment, including goggles, hard hats and masks. Some 26 percent of day laborers said they had been injured so severely that they were forced to miss days of work, and another 26 percent said they had been assaulted at least once by an employer. 
''These workers are being robbed, injured and beaten with impunity because of weak, underenforced and antiquated labor laws,'' said Bryan Lonegan, a professor at Seton Hall University School of Law who oversaw the survey. ''What we really need now is to muster the political will to address this.''
Among its recommendations, the report urged the State Legislature to pass a more robust statute to protect workers against wage theft, stiffening penalties and sanctions against employers who withhold pay or retaliate against employees who file claims.
Although no bill has yet been introduced, immigrant advocates in the state said they were inspired by the recent passage of legislation in New York that provides some of the nation's strongest protections against wage theft. That law, which takes effect in April, quadruples the penalties for employers who withhold workers' pay and shields whistle-blowers from retaliation.
Opponents of the law have said it will merely create needless paperwork for the vast majority of employers who do not steal wages.
The Seton Hall report, titled ''All Work and No Pay: Day Laborers, Wage Theft and Workplace Justice in New Jersey,'' was conducted by a group of law students and immigrant advocates under the auspices of the law school's Immigrant Workers' Rights Clinic. It was based on interviews in October with 113 workers waiting at seven pick-up sites in Bridgeton, Elizabeth, Flemington, Freehold, Morristown, Orange and Palisades Park.
No one knows how many day laborers work in New Jersey; the report said that in the seven locations, about 300 workers were seen on the days that researchers visited, though most declined to participate in the survey.
The report found that on at least one occasion last year, 54 percent of day laborers did not receive all the wages they had been promised; 48 percent said they were not paid at all on at least one occasion; and 94 percent said employers had failed to pay them overtime, in violation of state and federal laws.
These findings were roughly in line with those published in the National Day Labor Study, a comprehensive 2006 survey of day laborers around the country, in which 48 percent of the laborers reported underpayment of wages and 49 percent said they had been denied any wages on at least one occasion.
Day laborers, widely regarded as being among the most economically vulnerable workers, rarely take their grievances to law enforcement officials or the courts. Many are unaware of their legal rights, and those who are illegal immigrants fear deportation.
The Seton Hall report found that despite frequent claims of workplace abuses, the vast majority of workers had never sought help from the authorities to recover unpaid wages. Only three laborers said they had filed complaints with state labor officials, and four said they had taken their complaints to small-claims court.
The report found one bright spot: The rate of wage theft was significantly lower in municipalities where established advocacy groups were fighting for the rights of low-wage and immigrant workers.
''It shows how much community organizing serves to diminish abuse,'' Mr. Lonegan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Day laborers on Sunday in Palisades Park, N.J. A Seton Hall report cites problems of wage theft and substandard conditions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAWYERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



280 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; ; Pg. 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
CKE Restaurants, Carpinteria, Calif., named David & Goliath, El Segundo, Calif., to create campaigns in traditional media for the Carl's Jr. and Hardee's fast-food chains. The assignment, with spending estimated at $100 million, had been handled by Mendelsohn Zien Advertising, Los Angeles, part of Hukuhodo. A unit of MDC Partners, 72 and Sunny, Los Angeles, continues as the chains' digital agency of record.
Toshiba America Information Systems, Irvine, Calif., part of the Toshiba Corporation, chose the Los Angeles office of KSL Media to handle its United States media account. The assignment, estimated at $40 million to $60 million, had been handled by MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. 
Chevys Fresh Mex, part of Real Mex Restaurants, Cypress, Calif., named three agencies to handle assignments with total spending estimated at under $10 million. They are Hub Strategy and Communications, San Francisco, for tasks like creative development and social media; Cakewalk Creative, San Francisco, for tasks like decor; and Duke Marketing, San Rafael, Calif., for public relations.
NCC Media, New York, the advertising sales firm that represents cable system operators, selected the New York office of Cramer-Krasselt as its first agency. Billings were estimated at $1 million to $2 million.
People
Harvey Goldherz, vice chairman and worldwide chief operating officer at MediaCom, New York, was named chief executive at the MediaCom North America unit, succeeding Doug Checkeris, who resigned, the agency said, to pursue other interests. MediaCom North America has recently lost several large accounts. MediaCom is part of the GroupM unit of WPP.
Sally Kennedy joined the Dallas office of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, as chief executive, succeeding Mark Bateman, who left in October, the agency said, ''to pursue new opportunities.'' Ms. Kennedy had most recently been president of the New York office of Cossette, which was closed.
Mark Hunter joined Deutsch L.A. as partner and chief creative officer, succeeding Eric Hirshberg, who left in October to become chief executive at Activision. Mr. Hunter had most recently been chief creative officer at the London office of TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. Deutsch L.A. is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Heath Rudduck joined Campbell Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as chief creative officer. He assumes duties that had most recently been handled by Jonathan Hoffman, president and chief creative officer, who left in December 2009. Mr. Rudduck had most recently been executive creative director for the Boston region of Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, overseeing the work of offices in Atlanta, Boston and Detroit.
Jen Neal, chief marketing officer at BBDO North America, New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, is leaving after seven months, the agency said, to move to the West Coast to join her husband, David Neal, who is opening a production company in Los Angeles. A successor is being sought.
Stephen Hahn-Griffiths joined the flagship Chicago office of Leo Burnett as chief strategy officer, succeeding Ben Kline, who left in March. Mr. Hahn-Griffiths had been managing partner and chief strategy officer at Mullen, Boston, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Leo Burnett Chicago is part of Leo Burnett North America, a division of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe.
Miscellany
Ted Williams, a homeless former disc jockey who became an Internet sensation last week when a video clip of him appeared on YouTube, was hired by Kraft Foods and its agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, to provide the voice-over narration for four commercials for Kraft Macaroni and Cheese. The first spot ran on ESPN on Sunday during the Kraft Fight Hunger Bowl football game and a second is scheduled to run next Sunday during the NBC coverage of the Golden Globe Awards, said Lynne Galia, a spokeswoman for Kraft in Northfield, Ill. The remaining two commercials will run at a later date, she added. Mr. Williams was also hired by MSNBC, part of NBC Universal, to provide voice-overs for commercials that are part of the channel's new ''Lean forward'' campaign.
Ketchum, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, increased its ownership in its operations in China to a majority stake from a minority stake. Financial terms were not disclosed. Ketchum entered China in 1988 through a partnership with Newscan and operated as Ketchum Newscan; Kenneth Chu and Betty Lo, the founders of Newscan, will remain as equity partners in the Ketchum operations in China and keep their executives posts as, respectively, chief executive and president.
Slack Barshinger & Partners, Chicago, was renamed Slack & Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (94%); MEDIACOM WORLDWIDE (91%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); CKE RESTAURANTS INC (85%); TOSHIBA CORP (71%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); TOSHIBA AMERICA INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (57%); REAL MEX RESTAURANTS INC (56%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (52%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (50%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (85%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); TOS (LSE) (71%); 6502 (TSE) (71%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); ATVI (NASDAQ) (52%); AIY (FRA) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (57%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



281 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: A Grieving Family Unites in a Shelter

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
When they lived in the Dominican Republic, Jose Alonzo's nine children socialized only occasionally, as they have three different mothers. Here in New York, seven of them are roommates in a two-room apartment at a shelter in the Bronx.
Jeffrey, 21, his wife and baby sleep in the bedroom, while Jose, 48, the family's patriarch; Ulises, 20; Epifania, 17; Ramona, 16; twins Yenni and Yennifer, 14; and Carlos, also 14, sleep in beds arranged side by side in the living room. 
They are not thrilled about it. In Santiago, the town where they grew up, they had their own rooms. Also, they miss their mothers.
So why are they here?
''He did it to give his children a better future,'' Catherine Aguilar, the family's caseworker at the East New York Family Center, said of Mr. Alonzo's decision to sponsor each of his children after his mother had successfully sponsored him.
Five years ago, Mr. Alonzo brought over Veronica, 24, Jeffrey and Ulises, and they all lived with Mr. Alonzo's mother in East New York, Brooklyn, as he worked as a butcher at a neighborhood bodega. Yenni, Yennifer and Epifania came two years later, and the family of seven upgraded to a two-bedroom apartment. Ramona came soon after with her brother, Roldan, 18. The girls shared one room and the boys shared another.
It was not easy to go from her own room to a shared room, Ramona said through Ms. Aguilar, who translated. Three of her half-sisters nodded in agreement, adding that the close quarters breed arguments over clothes -- ''everything,'' one of the girls interjected in English.
A handyman by trade, Mr. Alonzo could not find work, so he focused on raising his children. But in April, Roldan was fatally stabbed near Prospect Park -- a victim of mistaken identity, his father said.
''I feel bad, because I was always on top of Roldan,'' who shunned school for romance, Mr. Alonzo said, adding that he was in the Dominican Republic when the stabbing occurred. Only two of his children were able to attend the funeral.
In July, the bank foreclosed on the Alonzos' Brooklyn landlord, forcing their eviction from the building, Mr. Alonzo said. Before the marshals sealed the apartment, the children removed whatever of their possessions they could carry. They moved into the Ruth Fernandez Family Residence, a shelter in the Woodstock section of the Bronx.
But in the summer heat, the children were not able to carry their bulky winter coats. In November, Brooklyn Community Services secured $300 so the children could replace the coats.
The family had been receiving counseling at the East New York Family Center, operated by Brooklyn Community Services, one of the seven beneficiaries of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, to cope with Mr. Alonzo's unemployment and his children's poor performance in school, a result of the poverty they had endured.
The grieving family still lives in the shelter, and Mr. Alonzo is unsophisticated at navigating the social service system. For instance, when his $950-per-month food stamp benefit was discontinued in November, he did not know how to get it reinstated, nor did he inform Ms. Aguilar.
Since moving to the shelter, Mr. Alonzo has found work painting school buses. The mother of five of his children -- including his late son, Roldan -- will be joining the family in January, when her visa comes through, Mr. Alonzo said.
Despite the family's hardships, Mr. Alonzo is not sorry he brought them to the United States.
''In the States, everything is easier,'' he said. ''People don't starve. There's a lot of help.''
Yenni wants to be a teacher when she grows up, Epifania wants to be a surgeon and Yennifer and Ramona would like to be police officers, in part because of what happened to their brother. But living in the land of opportunity does not guarantee instant happiness.
''Estas contenta?'' Ms. Aguilar asked the girls. Are you happy?
''Poco,'' Yenni said. A little.
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Four of Jose Alonzo's children in Brooklyn, from left: Epifania, 17
the twins Yennifer and Yenni, 14
 and Ramona, 16. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); EVICTION (77%); MEN (76%); FORECLOSURE (50%)

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



282 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON FOOTBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Rodgers Prevails in a Scramble of His Own

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA
Aaron Rodgers earned the initial playoff victory of his emerging career. Michael Vick got his first experience with a timeless malady known as Philadelphia heartbreak. A tale of two handsomely talented quarterbacks produced high drama Sunday until Vick threw a first-down pass from the Green Bay 27 that was intercepted in the end zone with 33 seconds left by cornerback Tramon Williams.
''I went down swinging,'' Vick said, handing metaphorical ammunition to those who might argue that his decision-making prowess still runs a distant second to the astounding maneuverability of his famously fleet feet. 
''Something I need to work on,'' he said so himself.
Besides a matchup of teams that ruined the Giants' season on consecutive weekends, this, unfortunately, was a wild-card drama from which only one compelling quarterback could emerge with an opportunity to script the postseason conversation.
It was going to be Vick, who made a redemptive scramble this season from his unsavory past, or Rodgers, on the run from the shadow of his Packers predecessor, Brett Favre.
With the possible exception of the deliriously frostbitten, no one in Wisconsin questions the Packers' wisdom of thanking Favre for his services three years ago and making Rodgers their man. But as legacies go, there is the matter of Rodgers's having to create one to compete with the Super Bowl that Favre delivered in the 1996 season. Rodgers's tense 21-16 victory at Lincoln Financial Field was a pretty good start.
Favre's reputation as the quarterback next door may have rolled all the way south from Minnesota to Mississippi this season, but on the Web site of The Green Bay Press-Gazette, ''Legendary: The Unforgettable Career of Brett Favre'' can be purchased for $15.95.
The regular season is about story lines. The playoffs are about consolidating them as lasting stories. With Favre finally finished (we think), there would be a poetic symmetry to a Rodgers rise, or at least more plays like those he made Sunday to deflate this N.F.L.-title-starved city.
Much is made of Vick's electrifying ability to turn defensive pressure into a Road Runner cartoon, but it was Rodgers who reminded us Sunday that the act of being merely elusive can be just as inspiring -- provided the motion is accompanied by sound judgment and an accurate passing arm.
Time and again, Rodgers dodged a defensive lineman here, a blitzing safety there, and made the patient, economical throw. On the Packers' first touchdown drive, he rolled left on third-and-7 and made a gorgeous 9-yard throw across his body to John Kuhn before hitting his tight end John Crabtree in the right corner of the end zone for the first of his three touchdown passes.
He made another third-down throw on the move as the Packers drained the second-quarter clock of seven minutes during a 12-play, 57-yard drive, culminating with a pass on the run to James Jones for a 9-yard score.
''His ability to play in the pocket, trusting his footwork, the time clock, the ability to come out of the pocket to buy time -- that's Aaron's strength,'' Packers Coach Mike McCarthy said.
Yet it was also Rodgers's fumble trying to evade the rush on his own 24 early in the third quarter that gave the Eagles an opening. Vick seized it with a 24-yard touchdown pass to Jason Avant.
Until his last swing for the fences, Vick made plays, throwing for 292 yards, or 112 more than Rodgers. Vick was Philadelphia's best hope, and there were moments in the game when it might have swung the Eagles' way with a timely assist from a teammate -- or his coach, Andy Reid.
The Eagles let running back James Starks, a sixth-round draft pick last April, shred them for 123 yards, or 41 more than the Eagles' total. Avant killed a third-quarter drive with a drop at the Packers' 35 -- and there were others. Reid ordered a field-goal attempt on fourth-and-1 from the Packers' 16 early in the fourth quarter, and the decision backfired when the normally reliable David Akers missed wide right for the second time in the game.
In America's time-honored game of obsessing over the quarterback, the mistakes of others are soon forgotten. The ankle Vick hurt late in the game won't excuse the endgame pick. And what seemed a moot question three weeks ago could even become a heated debate: has Vick done enough to warrant substantial free-agent money that would probably result in the sacrifice of young Kevin Kolb?
Vick unquestionably deserves credit for brilliantly scrambling from the demons that ravaged his reputation and stole his freedom. But he is 30, and given the toll his playing style takes on his smallish 6-foot, 215-pound frame, it is not unfair to at least wonder if he will ever make the long run to the Super Bowl.
Fair or not, the end of the season is judgment day. On the subject of his first playoff victory, Rodgers was quick to say, ''In all my time being a football fan, I have never seen one player win a game all by himself.'' That was never truer than last season when Rodgers rang up 45 points in his first playoff game against Arizona but lost, before Favre made it worse by steering the Vikings within a step of the Super Bowl.
Now Rodgers has taken Step 1 on the road to busting Favre's ghost once and for all. Next stop, Atlanta, coincidentally the former heart of Michael Vick country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



283 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: In Illinois, a Giant Deficit Leads to Talk of a Giant Tax Increase

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -- With Illinois's budget crisis reaching dizzying, desperate levels, lawmakers here over the weekend were seriously pondering something that would have been unimaginable even a few months ago: a 75 percent increase in the state's income tax.
That was just one element in an enormous, controversial and still evolving financial package the state's top political powers dreamed up in private meetings here. On Sunday, they were racing to find enough support to push it through before a new crop of lawmakers takes over on Wednesday.
In a state where the budget woes have, by some estimates, grown more dire than even those in California, it seems that months of inaction might at last be overtaken by some combination of timing (elections are far away) and fear (the state's national reputation and bond ratings seem to be sinking as fast as its debts are mounting).
In a moment when states around the country are wrestling with withered revenues, Illinois faces a deficit of at least $13 billion; more than $6 billion in unpaid bills to social service agencies, schools and funeral homes; the most underfinanced state pension system; and growing signs of concern from bond investors. 
''We are very close to things becoming unraveled,'' said Richard F. Dye, the co-author of a study released last week by a University of Illinois institute titled ''Titanic and Sinking: The Illinois Budget Disaster.'' The report suggested that doing nothing is simply no longer an alternative.
''It won't take long,'' Mr. Dye said, ''for this backlog of bills to be so outrageous that people will not deal with the state.''
Still, it is uncertain whether the Democratic leaders, who control both chambers of the legislature and the governor's office, can quickly summon enough support to pass the package, which has yet to be formally announced. It was expected, in one version, to include a $1 tax increase on packs of cigarettes, a sharp rise in the corporate tax, and an increase, for the first time in nearly 20 years, in the income tax, which would rise to 5.25 percent from 3 percent.
Democrats say that part of the increase would be temporary, and that the deal could come with pledges to keep spending growth to a bare minimum and to find cuts in areas like Medicaid. But even some fellow Democrats, particularly in the State House (where Democrats hold 70 votes and would need only 60 for passage of a tax increase), seem skeptical.
''Look, this would be a way to get back to even,'' John J. Cullerton, the State Senate president, said after one in what has seemed an endless flurry of closed-door meetings with the state's top three Democrats. The tax increases were expected to raise some $7.5 billion a year -- enough, advocates said, to solve the state's deficit under a new borrowing plan.
''We'd pay our bills,'' Mr. Cullerton said. ''Our vendors get paid. Our bond rating would improve.''
Republican leaders criticized the size of the proposed tax increase and complained that they had not been included in conversations where the plan was developed. Most of all, they argued that spending cuts needed to be looked at first, even given the urgency of the crisis, before anyone should resort to a giant and rushed tax hike.
The state's Republican Party chairman, Pat Brady, on Saturday described the whole notion as ''the latest example of life in Madiganville,'' referring to the longtime speaker of the House, Michael J. Madigan, and introduced an online petition in which residents could urge lawmakers to thwart the tax increase.
On a recent afternoon, Tom Cross, the Republican leader of the House, said he believed that the situation in Illinois could be ''catastrophic'' as early as May or June, then ticked down a four-page list of proposals that he says Republicans have tried to offer as ways to truly sort out Illinois's mess. On the list: sell half of the state's fleet of cars, require only one license plate on cars instead of two, combine the state treasurer's and comptroller's jobs, ban out-of-state travel for elected officials, and end the remodeling of state offices (carpet included).
''Even if you have a tax increase like this, you can't wake up and say, 'I've got all the money in the world, and I can spend like a drunken sailor,' '' Mr. Cross said. ''This is all as bad as everyone says, and I still don't hear any willingness to see the need to tighten the belt.''
Mr. Madigan, who is also the state's Democratic Party chairman and, in the view of many, the state's most powerful politician, has sent signals that more spending is not what he has in mind. He has pressed for two constitutional amendments -- both of which Mr. Cross mocks as ''gimmicks'' -- that would make it more difficult to approve benefit increases for pensioners and would hold state spending growth to a level residents see in their salaries.
As word of a possible deal filtered out, some in the business community were criticizing the size of the tax increases, saying they would make new companies less likely to come here and existing ones less likely to stay. Others were predicting that angry taxpayers might appear in droves in Springfield on Monday.
Steve Brown, a spokesman for Mr. Madigan, said voters' responses to the notion remained an open question. ''It's not going to be an easy story to tell because we know the economy is still not very good, we know unemployment's still a bad thing,'' he said. ''But we know the desperate fiscal condition that the state is in.''
The timing of this plan is no accident. For months, as Illinois and other states watched revenues sink, some leaders seemed wary of any drastic steps, given competitive political races in November. In the end, Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, a Democrat who has long said he would support a tax increase, though he suggested it might be a smaller one, narrowly defeated his challenger. And while the Republicans won a handful of legislative seats, they remain in the minority.
And so, Democrats see an opportunity. They have two days left with their most powerful margins in each chamber, and several departing legislators may now feel free to vote for a tax increase without worrying about any wrath from voters. Come noon on Wednesday, when new lawmakers arrive, the odds of passing any such package grow slimmer.
The state had to borrow to make payments to its pension system last year, and it has been considering borrowing $3.7 billion more with municipal bonds to make payments this year -- though with sinking bond ratings, the cost of borrowing grows ever higher. And the state's bills keep piling up. No one is certain what will happen if the tax increase package -- or some permutation of it -- does not pass now.
''You would have a continuation of deficit spending and borrowing, further deterioration of our bond ratings, and the image that we convey to businesses that might want to come here as that of instability,'' Mr. Cullerton said grimly. ''It would be disastrous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lobbyists in the rotunda outside the Illinois House of Representatives in Springfield last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); GOVERNORS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



284 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: How 4 Governors May Ask for Help

BYLINE: By ROB COX and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
The newly installed governors of Illinois, California, New York and Connecticut face huge budget gaps that are worrying financial markets. In the extreme, federal government rescues might be called for. Breakingviews imagines how these Democratic governors from traditionally left-leaning states may justify a plea for help from Congress.
Dear Members of the 112th Congress: 
Like many of you, the four of us have been elected with strong mandates. Voters in Illinois, California, New York and Connecticut have asked us to rectify past mistakes and set sustainable paths for the future. While we are Democrats and most of you are Republicans, we share your wish to address our financial challenges.
Over the next few weeks, we will make difficult decisions, requiring sacrifices from the people of our great states, to balance our budgets -- as we are legally required to do. Our progress matters to the nation. Together, we account for about a quarter of America's G.D.P. and population. We plan to sort out our own problems. But let's not forget that we have also, in better times, been among the most generous members of this great union in subsidizing weaker states.
In the 20 years leading up to 2005, the latest year for which the nonpartisan Tax Foundation has analyzed numbers, people and businesses in our four states consistently paid more in taxes to Washington than the federal government has spent here. Less prosperous states have benefited from the reverse situation.
Combined, we've paid nearly $500 billion more to Uncle Sam than successive administrations and your predecessors have chosen to return -- and that's before factoring in inflation. Believe it or not, tiny Connecticut paid a third of that. We don't object: we know that when we're doing well it's part of our national tradition and character to share some of the fruits for the greater good.
But the shoe is now on the other foot. And even if we completely fail to address our problems for ourselves -- which is highly unlikely -- our short-term needs would amount to only a fraction of what we have handed to other states in the past. Our signatory from the Land of Lincoln, Pat Quinn, is grappling with the annual $13 billion deficit he inherited. That seems a tiny amount compared with our historical generosity -- not to mention the $700 billion turned over to bankers a couple of years back or the easy money policies of the Fed that benefited rich bond investors like Bill Gross, who has been badmouthing Illinois's creditworthiness.
Our colleague in Albany, Andrew Cuomo, has to prepare the Empire State's budget by Feb. 1. It looks as if New York's $10 billion deficit today could grow to $17 billion in a couple of years if left unchecked. We've run his PowerPoint projections over our own states and feel his pain.
Indeed, though Connecticut may be the smallest member of our foursome, the state's near $4 billion deficit looms large relative to the state's total budget. Dan Malloy's showdown with the general assembly on Feb. 16 could be particularly tough -- again for the sake of less than 1 percent of what we collectively handed to less fortunate states in the 20 years to 2005.
Meanwhile more of our efforts to solve our own money problems -- dare we suggest, with greater discipline than seen at the federal level -- will become clear when the second-timer among us, Jerry Brown, unveils California's budget this week. Even his annual deficit of more than $20 billion pales in comparison with the money we've given away to other states.
As we, along with the new Congress, tackle difficult fiscal challenges in the face of unrelenting market pressures, we felt it was our duty to our respective voters to recall our past selflessness. In the past, the federal government has transferred a lot of our states' hard-earned wealth to those less fortunate; you and your Washington advisers shouldn't dismiss out of hand the possibility of a shift of cash in the other direction.
Sincerely,
Edmund G. Brown Jr., Pat Quinn, Andrew M. Cuomo and Dannel P. Malloy
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut faces a $4 billion state budget shortfall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (72%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%); PAT QUINN (58%); DANNEL MALLOY (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



285 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Do-It-Yourself Campaign for Luxury Cosmetics Brand

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TALK about good timing. Clarins, the French maker of high-end cosmetics and skin-care products, went private in September 2008 as the collapse of Lehman Brothers was setting off the financial crisis.
Now, as sales of premium-priced products like those bearing the Clarins name finally seem to be recovering, the company is readying a new global campaign.
The effort is intended to raise the profile of Clarins in the United States, make the brand seem more contemporary, assist Clarins in fending off competitors like Clinique and Lancome and -- oh, yes, help move more bottles, jars and tubes of products like Extra-Firming Day Cream, Shaping Facial Lift and HydraQuench Tinted Moisturizer. 
The campaign is to begin appearing in the February issues of women's magazines, several of them scheduled to come out this week. In addition to print, there will be transit posters and a significant online component that includes social media.
Ad spending, estimated at $96 million worldwide in 2010, is to be increased this year to about $123 million. In the United States, plans call for ad spending in 2011 to rise more than fivefold, to an estimated $16 million.
Clarins is creating the campaign internally with Guido Mocafico, a photographer known for still lifes whose work includes ads for brands like Chanel, Dior, Tom Ford, Gucci, Hermes and Shiseido. As a result, Clarins is parting ways with its longtime agency, BETC Euro RSCG in Paris, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas.
Although ''it's a great agency,'' Philip Shearer, chief executive of Clarins, said in a recent interview at the company's New York office, after 30 years in the industry, ''working with all agencies in all channels,'' he came to believe another approach was needed.
Mr. Mocafico, who joined Mr. Shearer for the interview, said that ''advertising agencies are probably not the best solution for a luxury brand,'' which would benefit more from ads that are derived from ''the relationship between an artist and an owner.''
''Philip said, 'Guido, I want to work with you because you go to museums,' '' Mr. Mocafico said, laughing. ''Maybe that makes a difference.''
Intending to ''recreate Clarins with an outside eye,'' Mr. Mocafico said, led him ''to read the book of Jacques Courtin Clarins,'' who introduced the brand in 1954.
''It's very fashionable to say, 'I go back to the DNA of the brand,' but nobody does it,'' he added. ''We did.''
That included making the Clarins brand logo a much more prominent feature of the ads.
''They never dared to say, 'We are Clarins,' '' Mr. Mocafico said. ''Be proud of being Clarins and shout it on the rooftops.''
To that end, a bright red stripe is being added as a background for the brand logo. ''Let's be red and loud,'' is how Mr. Mocafico put it.
Another aspect of the makeover is to feature full-face, portrait-style photographs by Mr. Mocafico. They replace shots that were often cropped to show only parts of women's faces -- or, in the case of High Definition Body Lift, a cellulite treatment, the other end.
''Some people want to see the'' backside, Mr. Mocafico said, ''and I say, 'No, I want to show the face.' ''
Mr. Mocafico derided ads ''for other luxury brands'' that offer what he called photos of ''big stars, retouched.''
The Clarins campaign, by contrast, ''is not over-retouched,'' he said, adding that he instructed the people with whom he works to not spend ''more than two hours per image'' in order to ''keep this real aspect'' of the models.
The women's photos are also larger in the new ads than they were in most previous ads, which gave roughly equal play to the products. (In some previous ads, there were no women, only products.) The new campaign reduces the product packages to secondary status.
The intent is to demonstrate that the core of the Clarins brand is ''natural beauty,'' Mr. Shearer said, ''which begins with the skin and taking care of yourself.''
The conversation during the interview between Mr. Shearer and Mr. Mocofico was frank and playful. At one point, for instance, Mr. Mocofico said: ''Philip trusts me for my understanding of the brand and my understanding of women. I listen a little bit to the marketing requests, and then I forget them.''
Mr. Shearer responded: ''I'm an accountant. What do I know?''
Clarins spent $5.3 million to advertise in major American media in 2009, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, down 57.6 percent from the $12.6 million spent in 2008 and down 44.2 percent from the $9.5 million spent in 2007.
For the first nine months of 2010, Kantar Media reported, American ad spending totaled $2.62 million, compared with $2.67 million in the same period of 2009.
Among the magazines coming out this week that are to carry the ads are Elle, Glamour and Harper's Bazaar. The campaign is also to appear in magazines like Allure, InStyle, Marie Claire, O: The Oprah Magazine, Vogue and W; it will also run on the Web sites of many women's magazines.
The goal is ''domination in the beginning'' of the year by ''front-loading the first quarter,'' said Jonathan Zrihen, president and chief executive for Clarins's North American operations. He is based in New York and spoke in a separate interview.
''We want to build on this momentum'' that Clarins has gained in the last three months, Mr. Zrihen said, at stores like Bloomingdale's and Nordstrom.
''We're pretty optimistic about the timing,'' he added. ''To be honest, I would be embarrassed to have launched this campaign a year ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clarins, the French skin-care brand, hired the photographer Guido Mocafico for ads to raise the company's profile. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (91%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); COSMETICS (90%); BRANDING (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CLARINS SA (92%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); LANCOME SA (57%); BETC EURO RSCG SA (54%); HAVAS SA (54%)

TICKER: HAV (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



286 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Scheduled for this week are wholesale inventories for November (Tuesday); import prices for December and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims; Producer Price Index for December and trade deficit for November (Thursday); Consumer Price Index for December; retail sales for December; industrial production and capacity utilization for December; Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for January; and business inventories for November (Friday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Alcoa (Monday); Lennar (Tuesday); Intel (Thursday); JPMorgan Chase (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, left, will meet with President Obama to discuss financial governance of the Group of 20; the North American International Auto Show will begin in Detroit (Monday); the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, will speak in Arlington, Va., at a forum sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation about lending to small businesses (Thursday).
OVERSEAS The European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions about interest rates. (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (66%); RETAIL SALES (56%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); ALCOA INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (74%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



287 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Library Of Congress Gets a Mile Of Music

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
The Library of Congress has begun taking possession of a huge donation of recordings, some 200,000 metal, glass and lacquer master discs from the period 1926 to 1948 that have been languishing in the subterranean vaults of Universal Music Group, the largest music conglomerate in the United States.
The bequest, which is to be formally announced on Monday, contains music representing every major genre of American popular song of that era -- jazz, blues, country and the smooth pop of the pre-rock-'n'-roll period -- as well as some light classical and spoken-word selections. One historic highlight is the master recording of Bing Crosby's 1947 version of ''White Christmas,'' which according to Guinness World Records is the best-selling single of all time.
''This is a treasure trove, a mile-plus of material on the shelves, much of it music that has been out of circulation for many years,'' said Gene DeAnna, head of the recorded sound section of the Motion Picture, Broadcasting and Recorded Sound Division of the Library of Congress. ''You can't get any better copies than these, so this represents a major upgrade.'' 
Under the agreement negotiated during discussions that began two years ago the Library of Congress has been granted ownership of the physical discs and plans to preserve and digitize them. But Universal, a subsidiary of the French media conglomerate Vivendi that was formerly known as the Music Corporation of America, or MCA, retains both the copyright to the music recorded on the discs and the right to commercialize that music after it has been digitized.
''The thinking behind this is that we have a very complementary relationship,'' said Vinnie Freda, executive vice president for digital logistics and business services at Universal Music Logistics. ''I've been trying to figure out a way to economically preserve these masters in a digital format, and the library is interested in making historically important material available. So they will preserve the physical masters for us and make them available to academics and anyone who goes to the library, and Universal retains the right to commercially exploit the masters.''
The agreement will also permit the Web site of the Library of Congress to stream some of the recordings for listeners around the world once they are cataloged and digitized, a process that Mr. DeAnna said could take five years or more, depending on government appropriations. But both sides said it had not yet been determined which songs would be made available, a process that could be complicated by Universal's plans to sell some of the digitized material through iTunes.
Universal's bequest is the second time in recent months that a historic archive of popular music has been handed over to a nonprofit institution dedicated to preserving America's recorded musical heritage. Last spring the National Jazz Museum in Harlem acquired nearly 1,000 discs, transcribed from radio broadcasts in the late 1930s and early 1940s by the recording engineer William Savory, featuring some of the biggest names in jazz.
Michael Cuscuna, the jazz record producer and historian who runs Mosaic Records, a label specializing in jazz reissues, said of the Universal donation, ''This is very crucial material for us, and we've been assured it will be an active archive that is not going to be tied up in bureaucracy, and that we and others will have access to it.''
''Having lived in the vaults for many years,'' he added, he is aware that ''there has been a lot of attrition'' to the archives of major labels because of ''stupid decisions, acts of nature, and material that has been lost, stolen, or never saved,'' so a transfer to the Library of Congress is theoretically welcome.
Much of the material has been stored at Iron Mountain, the former limestone mine near Boyers, Pa., that also holds numerous government and corporate records. Universal began delivering the material to a Library of Congress site in Culpeper, Va., just before Christmas, so it is still too early for archivists to know what historic recordings, rarities and curiosities may be lurking in the collection. But a quick look at the lacquer recordings, which are being examined first because they are the most vulnerable, has already given hints of the riches that might be there.
Many of the lacquer discs appear to be backup recordings of studio sessions, including the chatter of performers and producers between takes. ''Certainly there are many, many takes, 8 to 10, of some songs,'' Mr. DeAnna said, ''so that you can track the decisions made in the studio and get some sense of what they were deciding, the criteria they were using'' to determine how a song should sound.
One such sequence of studio recordings has Bing Crosby instructing backing musicians and singers how he wants to shape a song. Other discs feature Crosby and the guitarist Les Paul. Mr. DeAnna said there was even one session, which would have to be from the 1950s, of Crosby's encounter with the New York City doo-wop group the Jesters.
The Universal Music Group, today the largest group of labels in the beleaguered recording industry, began its life in 1934 as Decca Records, the American affiliate of the British recording company of the same name. Over the years as it was melded first into MCA and then Universal, it acquired or established subsidiary labels like Brunswick, Coral, Vocalion and Mercury, whose recordings from the era of 78 r.p.m. discs are also part of the archive.
The collection bequeathed to the Library of Congress does not, however, include recordings from the vaults of some of the important blues and soul labels that MCA acquired on its way to becoming the largest of the ''big four'' record companies. For example master recordings of both Chess Records (and its subsidiary Checker, Cadet and Aristocrat labels) and Motown Records (and its Tamla and Gordy subsidiaries) are excluded from the agreement, at least initially.
''We're hoping this is a long-term relationship that could span decades,'' Mr. Freda said. ''If all goes well, our hope is to eventually deliver another tranche, maybe the 1950s and into the early 1960s, and cherry pick from that.''
The exact monetary value of the collection is not known, and a formal assessment has not yet been made. But in addition to the savings that will be gained from no longer having to store the discs, Universal could be in line for a substantial tax write-off as a result of the donation.
''That's a complicated question for a lot of reasons,'' Mr. Freda said. ''It's not a yes or no answer. Universal is a subsidiary of a much larger company, so it's got a lot of complications. But I can absolutely tell you that without a doubt that was not a consideration of why we did this. To the extent that we get a tax benefit, that will only be an extra plus.''
Besides music by towering figures like Crosby, Louis Armstrong, Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Judy Garland, the collection includes songs by stars like the Mills Brothers, Fred Waring, Guy Lombardo and the Andrews Sisters. For connoisseurs of American roots music, there is also country music from Ernest Tubb, bluegrass from Bill Monroe and a wide variety of guitar and piano blues, gospel and jug-band music.
''This is going to be the gift that keeps giving, that keeps our engineers and staff here busy for years,'' Mr. DeAnna said. ''Our challenge right now is to decide where to start, because the sheer numbers are just staggering.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a large donation of recordings from the Universal Music Group to the Library of Congress misspelled the name of the town in Virginia where the material is being delivered to a Library of Congress site. It is Culpeper, not Culpepper.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bing Crosby is represented in the donated materials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DECCA) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (58%); VIVENDI (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (94%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (58%); VIV (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



288 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: In the Shock of the Moment, the Politicking Stops ... Until It Doesn't

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Aides to Sarah Palin angrily rejected suggestions that she had some responsibility for the angry political climate that served as a backdrop to the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords.
Some Democrats said Ms. Palin should at a minimum apologize for political tactics like putting out a map that placed cross hairs on Ms. Giffords' district. They said she should think about what contribution she might have made to fomenting antigovernment sentiment.
A day after the shooting of Ms. Giffords and 19 other people in Arizona focused the nation's attention on the heat of its political culture, Republicans and Democrats began the delicate task of navigating a tragedy that has the potential to alter the political landscape. 
Leaders in both parties sought Sunday to project a nonpartisan civility, with President Obama, whose advisers were weighing the possibility of a national address, calling for a national moment of silence and the House speaker, John A. Boehner, replacing a contentious health care debate on Wednesday with a bipartisan security briefing for lawmakers.
Yet beneath that public sense of comity was a subtle round of jockeying -- on cable news, blogs, Twitter and even Ms. Palin's Facebook page -- as both sides sought to gain the high ground and deal with the risks and challenges presented by the shootings.
Some Democrats and liberal activists wondered aloud whether heated Republican and conservative attacks against Democrats and the government over the past two years had contributed to a climate in which the gunman found a target in a member of Congress.
Republicans, at times indignant, focused blame on the apparent psychological problems of the suspect, Jared L. Loughner, and suggested that liberals were trying to politicize a personal tragedy. As much as anyone, Ms. Palin emerged as a fulcrum for the debate, once again personifying a broader cultural and ideological divide.
Former Representative Chris Carney of Pennsylvania, whose district, like Ms. Giffords's, was on list of 20 Congressional districts that Ms. Palin's political operation marked with cross hairs, was quoted in The Times Tribune of Scranton as saying, ''It would be very useful if she came out and, if not apologize, say that she was wrong in putting that sort of logo on people's districts.''
He was echoing Ms. Giffords's own comments from around the time the list came out, when she said there could be ''consequences'' to political appeals that use symbolism like gun sights.
''I don't understand how anybody can be held responsible for somebody who is completely mentally unstable like this,'' an adviser to Ms. Palin, Rebecca Mansour, said in an interview with a conservative radio host, Tammy Bruce. Responding to accusatory messages on the Web, Ms. Mansour added: ''People actually accuse Governor Palin of this. It's appalling -- appalling. I can't actually express how disgusting that is.''
Ms. Mansour said that the cross hairs, in fact, were not meant to be an allusion to guns, and agreed with her interviewer's reference to them as ''surveyors symbols.'' Aides to Ms. Palin did not respond to interview requests on Sunday.
The Arizona rampage upended the opening agenda for the 112th Congress, particularly efforts by the new Republican majority to repeal the new health care law.
''This inhuman act should not, and will not, deter us from our calling to represent our constituents and to fulfill our oaths of office,'' said Mr. Boehner, who presided over a unity conference call with hundreds of Republican and Democratic lawmakers on Sunday. ''No act, no matter how heinous, must be allowed to stop us from our duties.''
The president ordered that flags be flown at half-staff and called for a national moment of silence at 11 a.m. Monday, which aides said he would observe from the White House South Lawn. He canceled an economic trip to New York on Tuesday.
Mr. Obama was considering delivering a speech about the greater context surrounding the shooting, but advisers said it was premature to do so until Ms. Giffords's condition stabilized and more became known about the gunman's motives.
The shooting could also become a theme of the State of the Union address.
The subtext for the political discussion was the new balance of power in Washington, and how the shootings might play into Democratic efforts to regain initiative -- and Republican efforts to keep it -- after their losses in November. Both sides emerged from the weekend cognizant of the ways in which a politically charged act of violence, whatever the actual motives or mental state of the gunman, can recalibrate the national dialogue.
Mr. Obama did not speak about the shootings on Sunday, but the attack offered a moment for the president to rise above partisan politics.
Some Democrats were urging him to look back to recent history, when President Bill Clinton seized the political high ground after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, placing blame on the growing antigovernment sentiment. (Marking the 15th anniversary of those attacks this past April, Mr. Clinton said the return of the sentiment in recent years, combined with the ability to spread it faster via the Internet, was threatening to set the stage for a new round of violence.)
Yet openly seeking political advantage in tragedy is a delicate business and can backfire, as some of Mr. Clinton's aides suggested. ''The only way you gain political advantage is by doing absolutely nothing to take advantage -- and not have a lot of people backgrounding about how clever your political strategy is,'' said Michael D. McCurry, who was Mr. Clinton's press secretary at the time of the Oklahoma bombing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah Palin and former Representative Chris Carney have spoken about the shootings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (90%); SARAH PALIN (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHRISTOPHER P CARNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



289 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
CLINTON TRIES TO KEEP GULF
From Easing Iran Sanctions
The Obama administration is working to keep up the pressure on Iran from its neighbors in the Persian Gulf, despite new reports suggesting that a combination of sanctions and sabotage may have delayed by several years Iran's ability to produce a nuclear bomb. PAGE A4
FUMES SICKEN CHILDREN 
The authorities suspended a local environmental protection official in eastern China after lead fumes from an illegal battery factory sickened 228 children, the state-run news agency Xinhua reported Sunday. Twenty-three of the children were reported hospitalized. PAGE A8
VIETNAM'S ECONOMIC WOES
In a region where governments are swollen with foreign currency reserves and inflation remains relatively tame, Vietnam is an island of economic instability. PAGE A7
National
TERROR ACCUSATIONS,
But Perjury Charges
Luis Posada Carriles, a Cuban exile who once worked for the C.I.A. and has been linked to bombings in Havana and the downing of an airliner in the 1970s, is scheduled to go on trial this week in a Texas courtroom -- not on terrorism charges, but for perjury. PAGE A9
A SHOOTING'S AFTERMATH
The shooting in Tucson on Saturday of 20 people hit the city's Jewish community especially hard, most of all those who belong to Representative Gabrielle Giffords's small Reform temple, hidden among tall cactuses on a quiet suburban street. PAGE A10
New York
CITY COUNCIL READY TO ASSAIL
Mayor's Team on Blizzard
The City Council plans to bombard Bloomberg administration officials with questions about why the city did not declare a state of emergency during the blizzard late last month. At an oversight hearing, council members will try to discern why top officials decided against such a measure, which would have given the city greater power to clear roads of parked cars and make way for plows. PAGE A15
AFTER AN ATTACK, RED TAPE
Trevor Bell, a livery cab driver, was shot by his passenger shortly before 9 p.m. one Friday in South Ozone Park, Queens. His recovery, while slow, has been steady, even as he attends to the bureaucratic foul-ups that have surfaced. His car has been impounded as evidence, and the bank that gave him a loan to buy it is threatening to reclaim it if he misses monthly payments, he said. PAGE A16
Metropolitan Diary A16
Obituaries
DR. LOUISE REISS, 90
She directed a study that examined hundreds of thousands of baby teeth during the cold war -- to show that radioactive fallout from nuclear testing was getting into the nation's food supply and ultimately working its way into human bones and teeth -- and helped persuade the world's leading powers to ban nuclear testing in the atmosphere. PAGE B8
Business
SMALL LEAK SHUTS DOWN
Oil Pipeline in Alaska
A small oil leak at a pumping station has shut down the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, which could lead to higher oil and gasoline prices in the short term and a new blow to the reputation and fortunes of the British oil giant BP. Officials said they had not determined the cause or full extent of the leak in a pipe that connects a huge storage tank to a pump that pushes oil down the pipeline. In all, the 800-mile pipeline system carries about 10 percent of the oil produced domestically. PAGE B1
WEDDING TV TO INTERNET
The blending of television and the Internet is inevitable. But whether it will happen in concert with the major cable and satellite distributors or in spite of them remains an open question. PAGE B1
Arts
TWIN WHO WAS LEFT ALONE,
Disconnected but Not Lost
The composer Allen Shawn's memoir, ''Twin,'' centers on the formative event of his young life: when his twin sister, Mary, who was mentally disabled, was sent away. Michiko Kakutani writes that the book leaves the reader with a sense of how relationships between brothers and sisters, and parents and children, can irrevocably bend the arc of an individual's life. PAGE C1
Sports
AUBURN'S CAM NEWTON
Has Shown His Worth
If Auburn wins the national championship, which it has not done since 1957, its quarterback, Cam Newton, may go down as the most important player in program history, more important than even his fellow Heisman winners, Pat Sullivan and Bo Jackson. PAGE D5
JETS LEAN ON GROUND GAME
In the second half of their matchup with Indianapolis on Saturday, the Jets' offense went old school. Their offense resembled last season's offense. It featured handoffs, running backs and offensive linemen, the big boys, all pointed straight ahead. PAGE D4
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (71%); MAYORS (70%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); AIRLINES (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (61%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%); SUBURBS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); EAST CHINA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); GULF STATES (91%); VIET NAM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011



290 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Bonds by the Billions

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Deep inside the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the $600 billion man is fast at work.
In a spare, government-issue office in Lower Manhattan, behind a bank of cubicles and a scruffy copy machine, Josh Frost and a band of market specialists are making the Fed's ultimate Wall Street trade. They are buying hundreds of billions of dollars of United States Treasury securities on the open market in a controversial attempt to keep interest rates low and, in the process, revive the economy.
To critics, it is a Hail Mary play -- an admission that the economy's persistent weakness has all but exhausted the central bank's powers and tested the limits of its policy making. Around the world, some warn the unusual strategy will weaken the dollar and lead to crippling inflation.
But inside the Operations Room, on the ninth floor of the New York Fed's fortresslike headquarters, there is no time for second-guessing. Here the second round of what is known as quantitative easing -- QE2, as it is called on Wall Street -- is being put into practice almost daily by the central bank's powerful New York arm. 
Each morning Mr. Frost and his team face a formidable task: they must try to buy Treasuries at the best possible price from the savviest bond traders in the business.
The smallest miscalculation, a few one-hundredths of a percentage point here or there, could unsettle the markets and cost taxpayers dearly. It could also embolden critics at home and abroad who say QE2 represents a dangerous expansion of the Fed's role in the markets.
''We are looking to get the best price we can for the taxpayer,'' said Mr. Frost, a buttoned-down 34-year-old in a striped suit and rimless glasses.
Whether Mr. Frost will reach that goal is uncertain. What is sure is that market interest rates have risen, rather than fallen, since the Fed embarked on the program in November. That is the opposite of what was supposed to happen, although rates might have been even higher without the Fed program.
Mr. Frost's task is to avoid paying top dollar for bonds that could be worth less when the Fed tries to sell them one day.
Louis V. Crandall, the chief economist at the research firm Wrightson ICAP, said Wall Street bond traders were driving hard bargains. The Fed has tipped its hand by laying out which Treasuries it intends to buy and when, giving the bond houses an edge.
''A buyer of $100 billion a month is always going to be paying top prices,'' Mr. Crandall said of the Fed. ''You can't be a known buyer of $100 billion a month and get a good price.''
Nevertheless, Mr. Frost and his team have been praised on Wall Street for creating a simple, transparent program. Neither the Fed nor Wall Street wants any surprises. The central bank is even disclosing the prices at which it buys.
Mr. Frost and his team work out of a small, beige corner office with arched windows that used to be a library. There, at about 10:15 most workday mornings, one of them pushes a button on a computer. Across Wall Street, three musical notes -- an F, an E and a D -- sound on trading terminals, alerting traders that the Fed is in the market.
On one recent Tuesday morning, what Mr. Frost and his five young colleagues did over a 45-minute period might have unsettled even a seasoned Wall Street hand: they bought $7.8 billion of Treasuries.
Mr. Frost and his team drew up the daily schedule for what the Fed calls its Large-Scale Asset Purchase program. And that program is, by any measure, large scale: through next June, these traders will buy roughly $75 billion of Treasuries a month -- on top of another $30 billion it is reinvesting in Treasuries from its mortgage-related holdings.
But depending on daily market conditions, Mr. Frost can decide not to buy certain bonds if they are already in short supply.
As offers to sell Treasuries flash on a bank of trading screens, a computer algorithm works out which ones to accept. The computer compares the offers from Wall Street against market prices and the Fed's own calculation of what constitutes a ''fair value'' price.
The real work is done by three traders who are referred to during the operation as trader one, trader two and trader three. They sit at a long table against the wall, tapping at seven screens.
On one recent morning, trader one was Tiffany Wilding, 26. While she reviewed the stream of offers and then the prices finally accepted by the algorithm, trader two, Blake Gwinn, 29, double-checked her decisions and trader three, James White, 29, made a duplicate of everything in case the computers crashed.
All the while, Mr. Frost stood behind his colleagues, ready to intervene -- and even cancel the Fed's purchases -- at any sign of trouble.
They have their work cut out, trying to outwit the 18 investment firms that deal directly with the Fed. These so-called primary dealers -- the Goldmans and Morgans of the world -- employ some of the sharpest minds on Wall Street.
Mr. Frost -- a Rutgers math grad who has worked at the Fed for 12 years, lives in the Borough Hall area of Brooklyn and takes the subway each day to work -- is fairly well known within the dealer community. He and his team talk to the big banks most days.
The job carries great responsibility and is prominent within the Fed. But outside the Fed he and his colleagues are still seen more as staid central bankers doing a job, bankers say, not necessarily Wall Street hotshots likely to be snapped up by the likes of Goldman Sachs.
When devising the program, Mr. Frost and his team decided to focus most on buying Treasury notes with an average maturity of five to six years. That is because the yields on these notes have the biggest impact on interest rates for mortgage holders, consumers and companies issuing debt, and on banks' decisions to lend to businesses. Over the weeks and months of the program, his purchases should drive up the prices of these securities -- because they will be in greater demand -- and consequently push down their yields.
The trouble is, though yields fell sharply between August and November as the markets anticipated the new program, they have risen since it was formally announced in November, leaving many in the markets puzzled about the value of the Fed's bond-buying program.
Mr. Frost, and his boss, Brian P. Sack, insist the program has succeeded. Mr. Sack, 40, joined the Fed 18 months ago to run the entire markets group. He has a Ph.D. from M.I.T. and worked most recently for a Washington consulting firm. In 2004, he wrote a paper with Ben S. Bernanke, the future chairman of the Federal Reserve, and another economist about unconventional measures for stimulating the economy in extraordinary times -- just like large-scale purchases of Treasuries.
''We didn't know then that the Fed would be putting it to the test,'' he said.
He said the Obama administration's $858 billion tax compromise with Congressional Republicans in December complicated the macroeconomic picture.
But the biggest reason for the rise in interest rates was probably that the economy was, at last, growing faster. And that's good news.
''Rates have risen for the reasons we were hoping for: investors are more optimistic about the recovery,'' said Mr. Sack. ''It is a good sign.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blake Gwinn, left, and James White in the Operations Room. (B1)
 Josh Frost, who oversees the buying of billions in Treasury debt by the New York Fed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) GRAPHICS: How Quantitative Easing Works (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



291 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Resurgent Chrysler Says It Is Here to Stay

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A year ago, Chrysler didn't have a single new vehicle to display at its hometown auto show, and rival executives were taking bets on how long the smallest and most troubled of Detroit's three automakers would last.
Now it is looking like the obituaries were premature. After stabilizing sales in the United States last year, Chrysler is in the midst of a product blitz that company executives and industry analysts say should help it pay off its government loans and re-emerge as a public company this year. 
Chrysler's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said Monday that the company was gaining traction with new products after subsisting on older models in the aftermath of its government-financed bankruptcy in 2009.
''I haven't gotten any questions yet today like, 'Will you be here next year?' '' Mr. Marchionne said on the opening day of media previews at the North American International Auto Show here. ''There were some severe doubts that we could execute what we promised.''
It has been a difficult road back so far for the company, which has lagged General Motors and Ford in its comeback. But the addition of several new and revamped models helped increase Chrysler's sales in the United States by 16 percent in 2010, and now the company appears to be positioned to gain market share for the first time in several years.
Chrysler still trails G.M. and Ford, both of which are expected to report substantial profits for 2010 later this month. But it has gotten a big boost from the introduction of the redesigned version of its Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility.
Industry analysts had been skeptical that the S.U.V. would do well in a market more and more dominated by lighter-weight crossover vehicles. Sales of the Grand Cherokee, however, increased 68 percent last year and helped the overall Jeep brand improve sales by 25 percent. On Monday, the company also unveiled a new version of its flagship sedan, the Chrysler 300. It is an unapologetically large car that Mr. Marchionne predicted would appeal to consumers not interested in downsizing.
With its big grille and spacious interior, the 300 stands out from the compact and hybrid cars that most automakers are highlighting in Detroit. At a base price around $30,000 and with fuel economy estimated at 27 miles per gallon on the highway, the car is a critical building block in restoring Chrysler's reputation.
''I think this company is slowly proving it can come back,'' said David Cole, chairman emeritus of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''They have been helped quite a bit by relatively stable fuel prices.''
Most of Chrysler's new vehicles have been produced in collaboration with its Italian partner, Fiat. The Obama administration gave Fiat a 20 percent stake in Chrysler in exchange for providing new technology to the company, and set benchmarks for it to increase its ownership position.
On Monday, Fiat increased its stake to 25 percent because it had met the guideline of producing a new fuel-efficient engine in the United States. Fiat can raise its ownership to 35 percent by building a new small car in the United States and increasing its international sales.
Mr. Marchionne said Fiat might raise its stake as high as 51 percent once Chrysler repays the $7.1 billion in loans it still owes to the United States and Canadian governments.
He said Chrysler was planning to pay off the loans this year and then pursue an initial public stock offering to reduce the majority ownership position of the United Automobile Workers health care trust -- currently 63 percent -- and smaller stakes held by the American and Canadian governments.
''We are going to repay one hundred cents on every dollar of loans we received,'' said Mr. Marchionne. He said it was unlikely that Chrysler would attempt a stock offering until its loans were repaid.
''I think it would be advantageous for us to repay it all before we do an I.P.O.,'' he said.
Chrysler has yet to post a quarterly profit since emerging from bankruptcy, but Mr. Marchionne indicated that it was getting close. ''We should see in the first or second quarter how far we've come,'' he said.
Chrysler's long-term outlook is heavily dependent on a series of smaller, fuel-efficient models it will get from Fiat, the first of which is the tiny Fiat 500 micro-car that is to arrive in this country later this year.
But in the interim, Chrysler is hewing to its previously successful formula of stylish, affordable cars and rugged sport utility vehicles -- albeit with better mileage than previous products.
Mr. Marchionne said there was no question the company would meet the new federal fuel economy guidelines of 36 miles per gallon, which go into effect in 2016.
But he said that most of Chrysler's fuel-economy improvements would come from improving its internal combustion engines rather than introducing a large number of electric or hybrid vehicles.
''The downsizing of our engines is continuing,'' he said.
Still, Chrysler is the most vulnerable of the Detroit auto companies to a rise in fuel prices. About 80 percent of its sales in the United States are light trucks rather than cars, and that won't change until the Fiat-based models go on sale. But even its competitors are impressed by the early stages of its turnaround.
''You have to give them credit for the product freshening they've done this year,'' said James Farley, Ford's head of global sales and marketing. ''You have to respect that they are executing their plan.''
The arrival of the new Chrysler 300 is a big turning point for the company. The statuesque sedan is the linchpin of the brand's promise of ''affordable luxury'' and aggressive styling. Mr. Marchionne said the car's size and fuel economy would not deter consumers looking for stylish alternatives to an S.U.V. or crossover vehicle.
''You want a full-size car, this is the best fuel economy you can get,'' he said. ''If you want 37 miles per gallon, go get a Fiat 500.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Olivier Francois, chief of Fiat's Chrysler brand, with the 300 sedan. The automaker hopes to reemerge as a public company this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief, at the Detroit show on Monday. He said government loans would be repaid this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (88%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



292 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Lukashenko's Gulag

 BODY:
Belarus has long stood out as one of the most repressive of the former Soviet republics. Now we have fresh evidence of the cruel lengths to which its president, Aleksandr Lukashenko, will go to crush all challenges to his dictatorial rule. Jailing a leading opposition presidential candidate and the candidate's wife, a journalist, was not enough. His government is threatening to seize custody of the couple's 3-year-old son. 
Danil Sannikov has lived with his grandmother since his parents -- Andrei Sannikov and Irina Khalip -- were arrested last month. Mr. Sannikov was severely beaten. They were among thousands who protested in Minsk on Dec. 19 after Mr. Lukashenko stole his fourth term.
More than 600 people were arrested, including seven of the nine presidential candidates. After monitors with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe accused the government of election fraud, the government ordered the organization out of the country.
The United States and the European Union rightly condemned the repression and called for the release of opposition activists. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton reinforced that message by meeting with Belarussian human rights activists. Washington imposed sanctions on Belarus after the fraudulent 2006 vote and should consider whether they should be tightened.
The European Union has greater leverage and must re-evaluate its effort to encourage reform in Belarus with offers of improved relations, credit and economic aid. When it comes to Mr. Lukashenko, there is nothing to encourage.
Poland is trying an alternative approach. It has announced plans to abolish national visa fees for Belarussian citizens, open universities to independent-thinking Belarussians who can no longer study at home and create a center in Warsaw for the Belarussian opposition. Poland, Sweden, Germany, Britain and the Czech Republic are also pushing the European Union to reinstate a travel ban that was imposed on Mr. Lukashenko and other officials after the 2006 vote.
Mr. Lukashenko clearly thinks that his improving relations with Russia means he can thumb his nose at the West. The Kremlin, of course, said nothing about the stolen election and has enabled him with recent oil and gas agreements. Europe and the United States must now push back hard. There is little hope for democratic change in Belarus unless Mr. Lukashenko is forced to pay a stiff price for his abuses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ARRESTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%) BELARUS (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



293 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Only Slightly Higher After Leak Closes Pipeline

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Oil prices rose modestly on Monday in response to the shutdown of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, indicating that traders believed the network would come back on line before supplies tightened substantially in the United States.
The Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, which operates the 800-mile pipeline that delivers more than 10 percent of domestic production, closed the system Saturday morning because of a small leak at a critical Arctic pumping station. BP shares were down 1.2 percent Monday in London trading.
Oil prices shot up a bit more than a dollar Monday morning. to just over $89 a barrel for light sweet crude, a gain of about 1 percent. Oil analysts said that had the shutdown occurred two weeks ago, as oil inventories were low and prices were rising along with trader enthusiasm for commodities, the move upward could have easily been $4 or $5 in one day. 
Typically, oil producers and refiners in the United States draw down their inventories in December to save on taxes, since their taxes increase when their inventories are larger than the year before. After the first of the year, companies typically build inventory; oil is now flush along the West Coast and in the tanker port of Valdez, Alaska.
''We're flooded with oil,'' said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the PFG BEST brokerage firm in Chicago. ''The market senses this will be a short-term situation, maybe a couple of days. But if this becomes an issue that takes weeks then we could see supplies tighten dramatically and we could see a more sustained move on oil.''
The small leak of about 400 gallons has been contained to a pumping line and the basement of a pumping station, and there has been no visible environmental damage, according to Alyeska, a consortium of oil companies whose lead owner is BP.
Engineers are working to reroute the flow of oil between a storage area and a pump that pushes the oil down the pipeline, an effort that could take several days. Government regulators will have to agree on restarting the system.
The repair effort is complicated by the frigid January weather in Alaska. Since the pipeline pressure has been shut down, oil already in the network is cooling, raising concerns that ice could form in the piping that could complicate a start-up.
In the meantime, about 600,000 barrels of production a day, worth about $50 million, has been cut.
Nearly two-thirds of that revenue goes to BP, which needs the money to pay damages for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill caused by a blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig last April that left 11 workers dead. The State of Alaska also depends on the production for revenue and jobs.
''I remain concerned about the potential impact both on oil prices and Alaska's economy of even a short-term shutdown of the pipeline,'' said Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who serves on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, in a statement Sunday night.
Concerns about an oil shortage were partly eased by an announcement by Canadian Natural Resources on Monday that it may soon be able to resume some production at its Horizon oil sands plant in Alberta province. A fire in the plant's coker unit last week halted daily production of 110,000 barrels a day of synthetic oil, much of which is shipped to the United States. The damage appears to be less severe than originally feared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); TAX INCREASES (72%); DAMAGES (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%); ALYESKA PIPELINE SERVICE CO (72%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS486110 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF CRUDE OIL (72%); SIC4612 CRUDE PETROLEUM PIPELINES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) ALASKA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



294 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
international
U.S. AND CHINESE OFFICIALS AGREE TO CONTINUE TALKING
The American and Chinese militaries took microsteps on Monday toward smoothing over years of conflict and suspicion, but China's defense minister sharply defended his country's arms buildup, pointed to American military sales to Taiwan as a continuing obstacle and deflected an American request for ''in-depth strategic dialogue'' on nuclear missile defense, space and cyberwarfare. PAGE A11
TUNISIA TRIES TO QUELL RIOTS 
The Tunisian government ordered the closing of all schools and universities in the country until further notice in an attempt to quell escalating riots over poverty and unemployment. PAGE A4
National
AFTER FALLING FOR YEARS,
Abortion Rate Levels Off
The abortion rate in the United States, which has declined steadily since a 1981 peak of more than 29 abortions per 1,000 women, stalled between 2005 and 2008, at slightly less than 20 abortions per 1,000 women, according to a new report from the Guttmacher Institute. While the new report is a statistical survey and does not provide any explanation, the lead author said the economy might have played a role. PAGE A13
SOUTH GRAPPLES WITH SNOW
After being hit with a second major snowstorm in less than a month, weary Southerners were left with a feeling of disbelief. PAGE A12
New York
JUDGE GIVES CITY APPROVAL
To Disclose Teacher Grades
A Manhattan judge ruled that New York City may disclose performance rankings of thousands of teachers, denying a lawsuit by the teachers union to keep the information confidential. But the union, the United Federation of Teachers, said it would appeal the ruling, and lawyers for the city said the rankings would be withheld pending the outcome of an appeal. PAGE A20
Business
A RESURGENT CHRYSLER
Says It Is Here to Stay
A year ago, Chrysler didn't have a single new vehicle to display at its hometown auto show, and rival executives were taking bets on how long the smallest and most troubled of Detroit's three automakers would last. But Chrysler is in the midst of a product blitz that industry analysts say should help it pay off its government loans and re-emerge as a public company this year. PAGE B1
CHANGING FINANCIAL RULES
Goldman Sachs has been accused of putting its own interests ahead of its clients, but it plans to detail new rules around disclosure and financial reporting, as part of study aimed at bolstering internal controls, improving transparency and burnishing its reputation. PAGE B1
IPHONE WARS HEAT UP
AT&T, which has been the exclusive carrier of the iPhone in the United States, took a public swipe at the competition the day before Verizon was expected to announce plans to offer the iPhone as well. PAGE B1
Sports
NETS MAY BE CLOSING IN
On a Trade for Anthony
The Nets, the Denver Nuggets and the Detroit Pistons are furiously working to complete a deal that would send Carmelo Anthony, Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton to New Jersey, while scattering a dozen other players among the three teams. It is the latest in a series of attempts by the Nuggets and the Nets to consummate a trade, and it appears to have gained momentum. PAGE B14
Arts
NEWBERY AWARDED
To Debut Author
Clare Vanderpool's ''Moon Over Manifest,'' an old-fashioned novel about a scrappy girl searching for the answers to a spy mystery in small-town Kansas, won the John Newbery Medal for the year's outstanding contribution to children's literature. PAGE C1
Science Times
ESP REPORT SETS OFF
Debate on Data Analysis
A decision by editors at a respected psychology journal to accept a research report that claims to show the existence of extrasensory perception has inflamed one of the longest-running debates in science. For decades, some statisticians have argued that the standard technique used to analyze data in much of social science and medicine overstates many study findings -- often by a lot. PAGE D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
BOB HERBERT PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ABORTION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (83%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); INFORMATION WARFARE (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); JUDGES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); APPEALS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); TUNISIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



295 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Chain Turns to Employees for Creativity

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Editors' Note: With this issue, In Advertising returns for another year (its 10th). Because of the holiday for Martin Luther King's Birthday next Monday, please look for the next issue of In Advertising on Tuesday, Jan. 18.
Many advertisers are using employees in their commercials. Others are sponsoring contests to create commercials. So it should come as no surprise that a restaurant chain is combining those trends.
Carino's Italian, a chain of casual restaurants, is sponsoring a contest to create commercials that is open to its 4,000 servers and other hourly staff members. The contest began last week and is to run through Feb. 13.
The inspiration for the contest is something that happened to Ryan Bearden, the director of marketing at Carino's, while he was eating at a Carino's in Austin, Tex. 
A server at the restaurant named Lindsey Bielser suggested an idea for a commercial to Mr. Bearden, which he liked enough to turn over to ZaneTV, a boutique agency in Austin that works for the Carino's parent, Fired Up Inc., also based in Austin.
Zane TV brought Ms. Bielser's idea to life, and the resulting commercial ran last month on television and online. The spot was also uploaded to YouTube and the Carino's Web site where it can still be watched.
The commercial suggested by Ms. Bielser begins with bells playing ''We Wish You a Merry Christmas'' and a boy watching what seems to be snow, coming down in slow motion.
As the camera pulls back, it reveals the boy to be indoors, at a Carino's restaurant, watching grated cheese falling on a plate filled with meatballs and pasta. As the words ''Let it snow'' appear onscreen, an announcer says: ''Unique. Italian. Carino's.''
When the Carino's logo appears, it, too, is covered with flakes of grated cheese.
The contest is indicative of efforts by restaurants to stand out amid the clutter in a crowded category. Carino's, which has 140 restaurants in 26 states, competes against other casual-dining chains with Italian and Mediterranean menus like Carrabba's Italian Grill, Olive Garden and Romano's Macaroni Grill -- not to mention innumerable other casual-dining restaurants like Applebee's, Chili's and T.G.I. Friday's.
That competition has intensified in the last couple of years as the nation's economic woes forced many consumers to cut back on dining out and eat more meals at home.
''It's certainly been tough,'' says Mr. Bearden, who joined Fired Up in August after working at an agency in Austin named Tocquigny.
''When times are tough, the first thing people cut is eating out,'' he adds.
As a result, Carino's ''pulled back on a lot of our television advertising,'' Mr. Bearden says, ''as a cost-saving measure,'' replacing it with efforts like radio commercials, coupon inserts and direct marketing.
In recent months, however, conditions have improved, Mr. Bearden says: ''I don't think it will be a steep upswing, but the signs are definitely positive.''
Among those signs, he adds, is a gradual ''pullback from heavily discounted marketing'' across the industry in favor of ''getting back to the differentiators'' that restaurants believe ''make them unique, make them better.''
''We're anticipating a lot of positive growth in sales in the second half of our fiscal year,'' Mr. Bearden says. (The Fired Up fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30, so the second half of the 2011 fiscal year started on Jan. 1.)
Fired Up owns 68 of the 140 Carino's restaurants, Mr. Bearden says; most of those company-owned units are in markets like Arkansas, Colorado, Louisiana and Texas.
Franchisees own the remaining units, which are located in states like California, Florida, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon and Pennsylvania.
Fired Up spent about $300,000 to run the commercial inspired by Ms. Bielser's idea. It appeared in markets that included Texas cities like Austin, Brownsville, Laredo, Lubbock, McAllen and San Antonio, Mr. Bearden says, and ran in English and Spanish. (The media agency is Mediacentric, also in Austin.)
Among Mr. Bearden's goals when he arrived was to ''get us back on television,'' he says, adding, ''You have to be bold to get into that consideration set.'' The reference is to the list of restaurants that consumers keep in mind when they are thinking of dining out.
''I'm not saying that going on TV is a silver bullet,'' Mr. Bearden says, ''but it's an important element,'' along with ''getting more aggressive online.''
Mr. Bearden had been at his new job ''about four, five days,'' he recalls, when he went ''to the Carino's up the street'' from his office for lunch. He was introduced by a co-worker to Ms. Bielser, whom he describes as ''a very outgoing'' employee who has been with Carino's six years.
''She says to me, 'You're the director of marketing; I've got a great idea for you,' '' Mr. Bearden says, adding, ''Everybody's got an idea for the marketing folks.''
This time, though, when she told him her idea, he says, his response was: '' 'You know what? That's not a bad idea at all.' ''
A couple of weeks later, Mr. Bearden says, he had a meeting with R. Zane Rutledge, who runs ZaneTV, to discuss potential ideas for TV advertising.
''After we'd gone through them, I said, 'I've got to tell you this idea from this server,' '' Mr. Bearden says. ''He loved it.''
A test version of the commercial was shot, which everyone liked, followed by an actual version.
Ms. Bielser was thanked at a quarterly companywide meeting, Mr. Bearden says, where she received a plaque proclaiming her an ''honorary Carino's creative director.''
''She was just like a kid at Christmas,'' he adds, appropriately enough.
Mr. Rutledge says he believes the spot inspired by Ms. Bielser works for two reasons.
''One, it was simple, clever and seasonal,'' Mr. Rutledge says.
''And two, the whole concept of celebrating Lindsey's creativity is what Carino's is all about,'' he adds, because the restaurants are ''very creative from a culinary standpoint.''
That is underlined by the theme of the commercial, ''Unique. Italian. Carino's,'' which replaces a theme used in previous ads, ''Food. Fire. Fun.''
According to Mr. Bearden, the Carino's menu offers ''the more traditional Italian dishes,'' among them spaghetti and meatballs, chicken Parmesan and lasagna, along with ''our unique spin on Italian-American dishes'' like jalapeno garlic tilapia and ''unique Italian appetizers'' like Italian nachos, made with fried noodles, jalapeno peppers and Italian sausage.
The contest asks employees to submit video clips of their ideas for commercials, each of which can run up to 60 seconds. The clips are to be submitted through an employee-only online portal.
After the Feb. 13 deadline passes, the entries are to be judged by executives like Mr. Bearden, who will pick their top five ideas. Those videos will be uploaded to the Carino's Facebook page and YouTube, where the public will be able to vote through mid-March for its favorite entry.
Carino's will then run the winning commercial online, Mr. Bearden says, and it may also appear on television. The winning video may be turned over to ZaneTV to be polished or may run as is, he adds, depending on how it looks.
''That's the most exciting thing,'' Mr. Bearden says. ''We don't know what we're going to get.''
There have been varied results for contests that ask consumers to make ads, known as consumer-generated content or consumer-created content.
In some instances, the contests do not produce ideas that are better than those developed by industry professionals. Other such contests have been big hits, among them those seeking commercials for Doritos that run during Super Bowl games -- although, in some instances, the winning spots were created by consumers who want to work in advertising or are already industry freelancers.
''As a kind of career freelance myself, maybe that is one reason I see this as an opportunity,'' Mr. Rutledge says.
With contests to create ads, ''you're going to get a lot of not-so-great ideas, too,'' he adds, ''but that doesn't mean the great ideas are not valid.''
''A good idea is a good idea,'' Mr. Rutledge says. ''If that comes from the cute waitress, so be it.''
If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); DINING OUT TRENDS (62%)

COMPANY: FIRED UP INC (82%); CARRABBA'S ITALIAN GRILL INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



296 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK; Can't Afford to Buy a Picasso? How About a Piece of One?

BYLINE: By HEIDI N. MOORE

 BODY:
Art aficionados have long held themselves to be in a more elite class than Wall Street speculators.
Now, their worlds are colliding as a new crop of financial firms move to sell shares in pools of paintings - and some fear the results may resemble the chaotic splashed canvases of Jackson Pollock.
The two make for an odd combination. While many investors favor transparency and asset gathering, art dealers generally like secrecy and exclusive holdings.
But as the prices of major artworks have risen, niche money managers are developing art funds with the hope that their underlying works of art - and shares - will appreciate in value. What makes art experts nervous is that these funds bear some similarities to asset-backed securities and derivatives, opaque investments that got a bad name in the financial crisis. 
In the middle of this struggle are proponents, like the art research firm Skate's, that are trying to legitimize the emerging movement by making the market more transparent and providing guidance to investors new to the art world.
''Transparency and valuation of the pooled art assets are the two key issues facing art securitization,'' said Cristina del Rivero, a Manhattan securities lawyer who follows the nascent market through her blog, Art Meets Law.
With stocks and bond still volatile, rich overseas investors are rushing to tangible assets like art. Last year, auctions set records. Bidders paid $106.5 million for a Picasso, $104.3 million for a Giacometti, $89.5 million for a Qianlong Chinese vase and $11.5 million for a rare Audubon book.
Financial firms are looking to capitalize on that interest. By investing through funds, wealthy individuals can own art without paying the large fees and heavy taxes usually associated with full ownership. Some money managers claim returns can run as high 20 percent.
The field, with $300 million in assets, is small but growing. In Paris, the Art Exchange has plans to publicly list at least six pieces, including one by Sol LeWitt, and sell shares to investors. The Russian asset management firm Leader - controlled by close associates of Vladimir V. Putin's - created two art-related investments. Last summer, Russia passed regulations to allow art to be turned into securities, the second country to do so after India. Noah Wealth Management and the Terry Art Fund are starting portfolios in China.
The idea behind many art funds is relatively simple: A few big investors put up money to help a money manager buy paintings. Smaller investors buy ownership units, whose values are tied to the underlying art. For the privilege, they pay fees of around 5 percent of the assets and 20 percent of the profits.
It is a private market. When investors want to cash out, they have to trade the stakes - just as early owners of Facebook have sold some shares on secondary exchanges.
A handful of companies are trying to bring transparency to the historically shadowy, unregulated arena. Skate's - founded by a Russian investment banker and entrepreneur, Sergey Skaterschikov - has set out to be ''the Standard & Poor's of art,'' said its chairman, Michael Moriarty. The firm keeps a database of more than 5,000 of the world's most valuable art pieces, and its nine-person staff churns out industry reports on paintings, including the background, investment risks and prices.
''We're not first and foremost art people,'' said Mr. Moriarty, a former lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''We're business folks.''
Skate's and others face hurdles as they help bring art funds to the wealthy. Among the obstacles: a graveyard full of previous efforts.
During the economic boom of 2005 to 2007, around 40 art funds raised $350 million to $450 million, according to Skate's. But most disappeared after the financial crisis. Only the most established survived the shakeout, including the China Fund and the Fine Art Fund.
This time around, some experts worry that art funds - popular mainly in emerging markets like India, China and Russia - will attract the wrong element. Art funds, they say, have the potential to provide an easy vehicle for money laundering or hiding assets. One investor familiar with the Russian market said that the investments could appeal to a rising class of political oligarchs looking to keep money out of banks, where it can be seized should they run afoul of powerful friends.
''Corrupt government officials who have money are always looking for ways to keep it, and to keep it out of the banking system,'' said William Browder, the founder of the hedge fund Hermitage Capital, whose crusade to expose corruption in Russia got him blacklisted from doing business there and brought death threats.
Even the biggest proponents of art funds concede the market has a long way to go. Michael Plummer, a former Christie's and Sotheby's executive who founded the art advisory firm ArtVest Partners, said he doubted that the art funds would catch on in the United States, which has a heavily regulated financial system.
''It's not going to get critical mass in the post-Madoff era until a major bank or auction house puts its name behind it,'' Mr. Plummer said.
But financial firms may find it hard to penetrate the art community, a critical step when buying and selling paintings. The president of the Art Dealers Association of America, Lucy Mitchell-Innes, said she would never allow a young artist to sell artwork to a pooled fund. Ms. Mitchell-Innes is the influential co-founder of the contemporary-art gallery Mitchell-Innes & Nash in New York's Chelsea neighborhood and is close to the estate of Roy Lichtenstein.
''Generally we resist seeing art as another financial instrument,'' Ms. Mitchell-Innes said. ''None of us go into this market to trade commodities.''
Given such conflict, some art experts worry that investors looking for deals may get stuck with less-than-desirable works. Art dealers are more likely to keep bargains for themselves, said Harry Smith, chief executive of the appraisal firm Gurr Johns, and increase prices when art funds come calling - if they work with them at all.
''The headwinds art funds are facing is that the things they want to buy are expensive, and the things that are cheap they shouldn't be buying,'' Mr. Smith said.
Even so, companies continue their push to democratize the art world, expanding the class of investors who can say they own a piece of a Picasso. While their efforts are mainly aimed at the well-to-do with a high appetite for risk, the idea could soon reach others. A case in point: Skate's recently offered an iPad application for art enthusiasts to research their favorite pieces.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergey Skaterschikov, a Russian entrepreneur and founder of Skate's, an art research firm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM MARMUR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); PAINTING (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); BONDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ART DEALERS (77%); SECURITIZATION (77%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



297 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Amid Rioting, Tunisia Closes Universities And Schools

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
CAIRO -- The Tunisian government ordered the closing of all schools and universities in the country on Monday until further notice in an attempt to quell escalating riots over poverty and unemployment. 
At least 14 people have died in the riots, according to the official Tunisian news agency, which also reported the school closings. Opponents of the government contend that riot police officers have shot and killed many more since the riots broke out three weeks ago.
President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, in a televised address, promised to create more jobs, but also to stamp out any violence. He blamed unspecified enemies abroad for the rioting.
''The events were the work of masked gangs that attacked at night government buildings and even civilians inside their homes in a terrorist act that cannot be overlooked,'' he said, according to Al Jazeera.
Citing criticism from the State Department for its handling of the riots, the Tunisian government summoned the American ambassador to express its ''astonishment,'' Tunisian state television reported.
A State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, described the meeting as ''a follow-up discussion'' with the Tunisian government. ''We, again, affirmed our concerns not only about the ongoing violence, the importance of respecting freedom of expression, but also the importance of the availability of information,'' Mr. Crowley said.
The riots began about three weeks ago after a 26-year-old man with a college degree, in despair at his dismal prospects, committed suicide by setting himself on fire. He had been trying to sell a container of fruits and vegetables, and the police confiscated his merchandise because he had no permit.
His self-immolation unleashed the pent-up anger of Tunisia's educated and underemployed youth, and soon that of others as well.
On Monday, security forces surrounded a university where hundreds of students were trying to protest, according to Reuters. The rioting showed signs of spreading from provincial towns toward the cities of the Mediterranean coast which are central to the tourist industry, Reuters reported.
The riots are believed to have spread in part through social-media Web sites, and the Tunisian government reportedly directed Internet service providers to hack into the accounts of individual users. As the riots mounted over the weekend, the State Department expressed concern about intrusions into the privacy of Tunisian customers of American companies like Facebook, Yahoo and Google.
The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, urged restraint and respect for freedom of expression.
Since taking power in a bloodless coup more than two decades ago, President Ben Ali has enforced strict censorship and tolerated little dissent. Although Tunis markets itself as a peaceful tourist haven, it earns dismal marks from international human rights groups.
Official figures put unemployment at about 14 percent, with much higher levels among young people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COUPS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); CENSORSHIP (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); BURN INJURIES (72%); SUICIDE (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); TOURISM (63%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) TUNISIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



298 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Duke Energy's Deal for Rival Would Create Largest Utility Company

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
8:46 p.m. Updated
Duke Energy, a big power company based in North Carolina, said on Monday that it had agreed to acquire a rival, Progress Energy, in an all-stock deal valued at $13.7 billion, creating the nation's largest utility company. The combined company would have $22.7 billion in annual revenue and more than seven million customers in North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio.
The boards of both companies unanimously approved the deal, which is expected to increase profit in the first year. 
''Our industry is entering a building phase where we must invest in an array of new technologies to reduce our environmental footprints and become more efficient,'' James E. Rogers, the chief executive of Duke Energy, said in a statement. ''By merging our companies, we can do that more economically for our customers, improve shareholder value and continue to grow.''
Duke agreed to pay $47.48 a share for Progress, a premium of 6.4 percent over the average closing share price of Progress Energy in the 20 days through Friday.
Shares in Progress have risen more than 3 percent since DealReporter, a publication owned by The Financial Times, first reported on potential deal talks on Thursday. The company's stock closed at $44.72 on Friday and slipped 73 cents, to $43.99 a share, on Monday. Stock in Duke, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., fell 21 cents, to $17.58 a share.
It is the latest in a wave of utility deals as companies seek to cut costs and combat falling prices by increasing their customer bases. Energy and power deals made up the biggest share of merger activity in 2010, accounting for 20 percent of announced takeovers, based on Thomson Reuters data.
Duke bought Cinergy of Ohio in 2005 in a $9 billion all-stock deal.The companies hope to complete the deal by the end of 2011. Several regulators will have to sign off, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and two state authorities.
The merger could advance the companies' nuclear ambitions.
In 2007, Duke applied for permission to build a nuclear plant with two reactors in Cherokee County, S.C., called William States Lee III. Progress Energy has proposed building two reactors adjacent to its operations near Raleigh, N.C., and two more at a new site in Levy County, Fla.
But the companies have yet to make any real progress on the projects. None of the three projects are in line for government loan guarantees, and in the current economic environment, none are a sure thing.
One reason is the cost of the projects relative to the companies' balance sheets. A two-unit plant can run upward of $8 billion, representing about 14 percent of Duke's total assets.
Neither the Levy nor Lee project ''was going to go forward unless Duke or Progress found partners that were willing to come in,'' said John J. Reed, chief executive of an energy consulting firm, Concentric Energy Advisors, in Marlborough, Mass., who specializes in nuclear energy. The merger provides ''a ready-made partner,'' he said.
A tie-up might even speed up the timeline on some nuclear projects, said Edward D. Kee, a vice president of NERA Economic Consulting and a specialist on the finances of the new reactor market. By merging, they may be able to build one plant in 2015, instead of 2020, he estimated.
If the deal is cleared, Mr. Rogers is expected to become executive chairman, a role in which he would advise the chief executive on strategy and be the company's main voice on energy policy.
William D. Johnson, the chief executive of Progress Energy would become president and chief executive of the newly formed company, to be called Duke Energy.
''This combination of two outstanding companies is a natural fit,'' Mr. Johnson said in a statement. ''It makes clear strategic sense and creates exceptional value for our shareholders.''
Duke was advised by JPMorgan Chase, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch and the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. Progress was advised by Lazard, Barclays Capital and the law firm Hunton & Williams.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Brunswick Plant, owned by Progress Energy, in Southport, N.C. A merger of Duke and Progress would create a company with $22.7 billion in annual revenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PROGRESS ENERGY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); MERGERS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); APPROVALS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ACCOUNTING (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (90%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



299 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Falling for Years, Abortion Rate Levels Off, With More Choosing Medication Over Surgery

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The abortion rate in the United States, which has declined steadily since a 1981 peak of more than 29 abortions per 1,000 women, stalled between 2005 and 2008, at slightly less than 20 abortions per 1,000 women, according to a new report from the Guttmacher Institute. 
While the new report is a statistical survey and does not provide any explanation for why the numbers hit a plateau, Rachel Jones, the lead author, said the economy might have played a role.
''Unintended pregnancy is increasingly concentrated among poor and low-income women, and for the 2008 survey, we were collecting data in the midst of a recession,'' Ms. Jones said. ''So there are more poor women in the survey, women who in better economic times might have decided to carry to term, but since they or their partner lost their job, decided they couldn't.''
In 2008, there were 1.2 million abortions nationwide, a number that has changed little in the three years since the last survey by the Guttmacher Institute, which researches reproductive health issues and compiles the most comprehensive abortion statistics.
The report found that more women were turning away from surgical abortion in favor of medication, usually mifepristone, the drug formerly known as RU-486, to end their pregnancies. The report estimates that about 17 percent of all 2008 abortions, and more than a quarter of those performed before nine weeks of gestation, were medication abortions.
Randall K. O'Bannon, director of education and research at the National Right to Life Committee, said the trend toward medication abortions had helped keep the abortion numbers steady.
''Women were uncomfortable with the idea of surgical abortion,'' he said. ''They didn't like the idea of scraping, the gross stuff. So the abortion industry comes along and says, 'Now it's just a matter of popping a pill.' But the truth is it's nothing like that. There's lots of side effects.''
Mifepristone was introduced in the United Sates in 2000, and according to the report, there were 187,000 medication abortions in 2008, compared with 158,000 the previous year. Many clinics that do not specialize in abortions offer only medication abortions.
Ms. Jones sees the increase in medication abortions as good news, because such abortions occur early in pregnancy, when abortion is safest.
The new Guttmacher report was the first since 1982 showing no decline in the number of abortion providers, but Guttmacher officials said that was probably not because of any actual increase. Rather, they said, it was affected by the collection of more accurate data, including information from 65 more California hospitals that performed a small number of abortions. Abortion clinics made up 21 percent of the providers in the United States, but performed about 70 percent of all abortions.
As in the previous study, 87 percent of United States counties had no abortion provider, and 35 percent of women of reproductive age lived in those counties.
The Guttmacher report found an increase in harassment of abortion providers, with clinics in the Midwest and the South the most likely to experience harassment and those in the Northeast and the West the least.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); WOMEN (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONTRACEPTION (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



300 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Deep Social Services Cuts Outlined in California

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Malia Wollan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- Workers were removing the ornaments from the Christmas tree at the Capitol here on Monday morning, and much the same mood filled the legislative chambers as Gov. Jerry Brown unveiled his Grinch-like budget.
It included $12.5 billion in spending cuts, with a 10 percent cut in take-home pay for some state employees and deep reductions in social services. He also suggested a five-year extension of a bundle of taxes, a plan that requires voter approval, setting the stage for a potentially contentious special election in June.
The budget is meant to address an estimated $25.4 billion deficit, just the latest shortfall for a state that has experienced a drumbeat of bad economic news in recent years. But Mr. Brown, who took office last week, cast the blame even further, saying the state's leaders had spent the last decade balancing their books with ''gimmicks and tricks and unrealistic expectations that pushed this state deeper and deeper into debt.'' 
But that period, Mr. Brown repeatedly emphasized, was over.
''What I propose will be painful,'' he said. ''It's going to take sacrifice from every sector of California.''
In terms of sheer dollars, the steepest cuts affect the most vulnerable in the state, including a $1.7 billion cut to Medi-Cal, the state's health insurance program for poor families and disabled people; a $1.5 billion reduction in its welfare-to-work program; and $750 million cut from the agency that provides services to those with developmental disabilities.
The state's higher education system -- including the highly regarded University of California -- would lose $1.4 billion. The president of the university, Mark G. Yudof, who has dealt with protests at several campuses over tuition increases, called it ''a sad day for California,'' but he seemed to recognize the gravity of the state's bind.
''The university will stand up and do all it can to help the state through what is a fiscal, structural and political crisis,'' Mr. Yudof said. ''There can be no business as usual.''
That sentiment seems to be an early mantra for Mr. Brown, a Democrat who became governor for the second time. He also proposed on Monday what he characterized as a ''vast and historic'' reorganization, moving many duties now handled by the state down to a local level. (Some of the shift of power to the state occurred during the first Brown administration, when the voter-approved Proposition 13 cut local taxation power.)
Under Mr. Brown's plan, a raft of state functions -- like fire and emergency response, court security, and housing for low-level criminals and oversight of adult parolees, among others -- would become local or county responsibilities. The proposal was met with guarded support by county officials.
''Realignment can only succeed if there are stable revenues to fund the new responsibilities being handed to counties,'' said John Tavaglione, the president of the California State Association of Counties.
Budget analysts said Mr. Brown's approach seemed more realistic, with less reliance on borrowing, than some budgets offered by his immediate predecessor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican.
On Monday, Republicans -- in the minority in the Legislature -- seemed cool to putting any tax proposal on the ballot.
''Assembly Republicans stand united as the last line of defense for California taxpayers,'' said Connie Conway, the Assembly's Republican leader.
Mr. Brown said that he would vigorously campaign for the taxes and that deeper cuts awaited if voters rejected the tax extension.
''People should assume that's what's left is what will be cut,'' he said.
Even if the taxes pass, the effect of the budget cuts will be harsh, said Jean M. Ross, the executive director of the California Budget Project, a nonpartisan group that evaluates the repercussions of public policy on low- and middle-class Californians.
The cuts, ''especially in health and human services, are very difficult at a time when the economy remains extremely weak,'' Ms. Ross said, adding that the effects could be multiplicative, as poor families received less aid but had to pay more for care.
The cost of health care was the focus of several hundred protesters who gathered on the Capitol steps after Mr. Brown's announcement, demanding that the state adopt a single-payer health system. Inside, a group of advocates in wheelchairs also criticized a steep reduction in financing for in-home care.
''Some people are going to lose their lives on this,'' said Greg Thompson, executive director of the Personal Assistance Services Council of Los Angeles County, which has some 185,000 people receiving in-home care. Mr. Thompson uses a wheelchair because of a spinal cord injury.
Mr. Brown acknowledged that many of the cuts would be ''very, very difficult,'' especially for low-income Californians. But he said it was time for the state to ''pay the piper.''
''This is the world we live in,'' he said. ''You can't manufacture money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown introduced his budget Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PAROLE (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); TUITION FEES (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



301 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: On Adventure's Trail, Some Endings Bring a Blush

 BODY:
I GUESS my first crazy experience with planes was when I was 18 years old and went sky diving without a tandem. I was instructed to hold onto the wing of the plane and use my hands to scoot to the very edge. My instructor counted to three and told me to release my grip and fall backward. He also said the parachute would self-release. It did.
But my earpiece malfunctioned and I couldn't hear the instructions on how to steer. I landed in a tree and had to be rescued. The only thing hurt was my pride. 
The same thing is true with business travel. Sometimes, it turns into my worst nightmare. Other times, I relish it because I get away from all the things that suck up your time during a normal business day.
I remember when flying used to be fun.
One time I was in an overbooked plane and got to join the pilots in the cockpit. This was years ago, when I was in Greece. The pilots offered to show me where they lived. I thought they would just point out the window. Instead, the main pilot did this low dive right over his home. Everyone on board was shocked. Me, too. But it was kind of fun.
A little more than three years ago, I took over as chief executive of Creative Class. My husband is the founder of the company. One of the first things I did was work on a huge regional economic conference. It was scheduled for February. The location? Siberia.
My husband I were married for about a year at that point, and we decided it would be fun to celebrate Valentine's Day together there.
Right before we left, we were alerted about reports of orange snow coming down over the region. That should have been our first indication that things might get a little odd. We flew into Moscow and spent the night. It was lovely. We were then invited to fly with a Russian dignitary on his private jet from Moscow to Krasnoyarsk in Siberia.
He was five hours late. When we finally boarded the plane, there were six other men on board, all of whom took a liking to me. Their way of making friends was to offer me cigarettes, meat and Scotch. I didn't want to be rude, but I declined as politely as I could, since I don't smoke, I'm a vegetarian, and I don't drink Scotch.
By the time we arrived, I just wanted to shower and go to sleep. We were guaranteed an early check-in with the hotel since we had prepaid. But once we arrived, we still had to wait for two hours in the lobby. Finally, we were given a room key card. I was so excited.
We went up to the floor, found the room, and I did the honors of swiping the card. The door opened and I walked in a few feet only to find the room was already occupied by a rather large man. He was in the bed. When he heard us, he yelled and got out of bed. He was naked. I was speechless.
He then chased us out of the room and yelled at us in Russian as we tried to make our way back to the elevator. I can't say I blame him.
We went back to the lobby and tried to explain the situation to the desk clerks. No one really cared, but we did finally get an unoccupied room. I didn't see the man who yelled at us during the rest of the trip. I'm thankful for that. I already saw enough.
Q.How often do you fly?
A. At a minimum, once a week.
Q. What's your least favorite airport?
A. Moscow International. The last time I was there, it seemed everyone was smoking cigarettes. It was tough to breathe, and the smell was pretty awful.
Q. Of all the places you've been, what's the best?
A. The Amalfi coast. It's so majestic and beautiful, and the vibe there is just so chill.
Q. What's your secret airport vice?
A. Wine. Lots of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rana Florida in Miami Beach. She is the chief of the Creative Class Group, which advises governments and businesses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); SKYDIVING (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); MEAT FREE DIETS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (77%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



302 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Unity Government a Possibility, Ivorian Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (Reuters) -- Alassane Ouattara, the internationally recognized winner of Ivory Coast's presidential election, would form a unity government with members of the party of President Laurent Gbagbo as long as Mr. Gbagbo stepped down first, the country's ambassador to the United Nations said. 
World powers and African states have heaped pressure on Mr. Gbagbo to cede the presidency to Mr. Ouattara after the provisional results of a Nov. 28 election showed Mr. Ouattara as having won by an eight-point margin.
Mr. Gbagbo ''has followers, he has competent people in his party,'' the ambassador, Youssoufou Bamba, said in an interview with the BBC that was released Monday. ''Those people -- we are prepared to work with them in the framework of a wide composite cabinet.''
But Mr. Bamba said the formation of a unity government was only possible if Mr. Gbagbo stepped down first.
''What I am saying is Mr. Ouattara should be recognized by Mr. Gbagbo that he is the legitimate president,'' Mr. Bamba said.
The proposal comes amid mounting pressure on Mr. Gbagbo, who has ruled the country since 2000, to leave power and end a standoff that has killed more than 200 people and threatens to rekindle a civil war.
The West African regional bloc Ecowas has threatened to remove Mr. Gbagbo by force if he does not leave power, while the United States and the European Union have imposed travel bans on Mr. Gbagbo and members of his inner circle.
In an effort to add pressure, Mr. Ouattara's government on Monday listed 16 Ivorian treasury, banking and cocoa officials it wants sanctioned for backing Mr. Gbagbo.
Mr. Gbagbo's access to state accounts at West Africa's central bank has already been frozen, but he still controls taxes, customs and the lucrative oil and cocoa sectors.
The list of officials included the head of the cocoa regulating body, the head of the local branch of the West African central bank, four treasury officials and local directors of several other banks, including Ecobank Cote D'Ivoire and Standard Chartered.
The election was meant to reunite the country after the 2002-3 civil war split it into a rebel north and a Gbagbo-controlled south, but it has instead deepened divisions and raised the specter of a return to open conflict.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alassane Ouattara, center, with advisers and staff members last week in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA BLACKWELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



303 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rules City Can Disclose Names in Teacher Rankings; Union Plans to Appeal

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
A Manhattan judge ruled Monday that the city may release performance rankings of thousands of teachers to the public, denying a request by the teachers union to keep the teachers' names confidential. 
But the public is unlikely to see the rankings soon. The union, the United Federation of Teachers, said Monday that it would appeal the ruling, and lawyers for the city said the rankings would be withheld pending the outcome.
The rankings, known as Teacher Data Reports, grade more than 12,000 of the city's 80,000 public school teachers based on how much progress their students made on standardized tests. They were developed four years ago as a pilot program to improve instruction; this year they have become a factor in tenure decisions. Several news organizations, including The New York Times, have requested access to the data.
Because the rankings are based on limited snapshots of student work, many education experts caution against making them the sole or primary measure of teachers. In practice, the rankings of many teachers in the city have varied widely from year to year, and their performance generally falls within a broad range.
The city's Department of Education agrees that the rankings should not be used in isolation, but it has defended them as the best available quantitative measure of teacher performance, particularly for teachers who rank consistently high or low.
Some experts, however, like Daniel Koretz, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, question that assertion, noting that the rankings are based on state tests that have been marred by score inflation.
In her decision, the Manhattan judge, Cynthia S. Kern of State Supreme Court, wrote that the union had failed to prove that the city's decision to release the names was ''arbitrary and capricious,'' the high bar for preventing their release under state disclosure laws.
''This information is of interest to parents, students, taxpayers and the public generally,'' Justice Kern wrote.
Jesse I. Levine, a lawyer for the city, said the court had ''affirmed the city's belief that the public has a right to this information under New York's Freedom of Information Law.''
''We are disappointed,'' the union president, Michael Mulgrew, said. ''The reports, which are largely based on discredited state tests, have huge margins of error and are filled with inaccuracies, will only serve to mislead parents looking for real information.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



304 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plans to Hire More Than 7,000 Workers

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The Ford Motor Company said on Monday that it planned to hire more than 7,000 workers in the next two years.
Ford, during a presentation at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, said it would add 4,000 hourly jobs and 750 salaried positions this year and at least 2,500 hourly jobs in 2012. 
''We have moved from fixing the fundamentals of the business to profitably growing globally,'' Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said.
Ford executives did not reveal where the jobs would be located. The company had already announced that it would hire 1,800 people this year at a plant in Louisville, Ky., and included those jobs in Monday's figure.
The new hires would increase Ford's hourly payroll in the United States by about 15 percent, but would represent a small fraction of the jobs eliminated in recent years. The company has about 42,000 workers at its American plants, down from 103,000 a decade ago.
Ford's hiring plans come amid bullish forecasts for sales across the industry in the years ahead, after a miserable 2009 and a modestly improved 2010. Ford's domestic sales increased 15 percent in 2010, and its market share grew for the second consecutive year, an achievement it had not experienced since 1993.
Jeff Schuster, an analyst with J. D. Power & Associates, has projected sales would rise to 12.8 million vehicles in 2011 and 15 million in 2012, from 11.6 million last year. Ford and General Motors said last week that they expected industrywide sales this year of up to 13.5 million.
The hiring would give Ford nearly as many hourly workers in the United States as G.M., which also made drastic cuts in recent years and now has 53,000.
Some of the new workers will be paid so-called second-tier wages, under an agreement with the United Automobile Workers union. The deal allows the Detroit automakers to pay some new hires about $14 an hour, which is about half what current workers earn; benefits also are reduced.
G.M. recently said it was hiring 1,000 engineers, but Mark Reuss, the president of G.M.'s North American operations, said Monday that the company was waiting to see how the economy and automotive market improved before adding a significant number of plant workers.
''There's a lot of uncertainty about the permanent nature of people's jobs,'' Mr. Reuss said. ''We're going to let the market get in line with production and demand.''
Both Ford and G.M. earned large profits in 2010, largely because of cutting labor costs and other expenses. Through the first three quarters, earnings were $6.4 billion at Ford and $4.2 billion at G.M. Neither has revealed their financial results for the fourth quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



305 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Flakes May Not Pile Up, But the Anxiety Will

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Noah Rosenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Time was, clouds gathered over the frigid city and released moisture that fell to the land not in liquid form, but in a semi-hardened state that the people called ''snow.'' The people waited for the snow to stop falling, and they worked to clear enough from the roads so as to access without interruption institutions of commerce, entertainment and worship. This period of snowfall was called ''winter.''
It's not so simple anymore. In January 2011, following on the slushy heels of the Blizzard Debacle of 2010, a snowstorm is an event more political and neurological than meteorological, with hand-wringing and orating and blame-laying heralding the coming clouds more intensely than the Weather Channel does. The New Yorker's sensitization to snow seems to be at an alarmingly high level once reserved for invading redcoats or sewer alligators. The city's security slogan could easily read, ''If You See Snow, Say Something.'' 
When will snow return to its place in city life as, simply, snow? Annoying, inevitable, here-today, gone-some-other-day snow?
Clearly not this week, with the National Weather Service issuing a winter storm warning and forecasters predicting 8 to 12 inches of snow beginning Tuesday night and falling through Wednesday morning. This while the architects of snow removal, accused of mishandling the Dec. 26 storm, sat through a daylong hearing before the City Council on Monday, an event broadcast live.
''People want to make sure the city has in place a system to deal with emergency situations,'' said Sharyn O'Halloran, a professor of political economy at Columbia University. ''It's the anticipation.''
Anticipation became overkill last week, when a predicted storm brought a mere dusting of snow and a lot of published photographs of plows all lined up with nowhere to go. The next day, the city's residents were skewered in a ''Saturday Night Live'' skit in which the actor Fred Armisen, playing Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, warned viewers to avoid snow at all costs and fielded questions like ''Where does snow come from?'' and ''What happens if snow touches suede?''
Anticipation may be greater than normal for this storm, with its possible double-digit depth. Anecdotal evidence of presnow jitters was visible Monday. Outside the Pathmark Superstore in Downtown Brooklyn, it was easy to find amid carts loaded with bottles of water, milk, soup, chicken and toilet paper.
Lee Plummer, 62, of East New York, Brooklyn, pushing such a cart, said he ignored the city's promises after the storm last month. ''Just because Bloomberg says he's going to do a better job -- he might, but I don't trust him,'' he said.
''I listen to the news, the forecast, everything,'' he said. ''I want to make sure nothing happens because I was very inconvenienced last time.''
William Dionisio, president of Atomic Fuel Oil in Astoria, Queens, which delivers oil to homes, said requests for visits were up this week. ''We get a couple nervous Nellies who call ahead of time for deliveries,'' he said.
FreshDirect posted a notice on its Web site announcing it had canceled its grocery deliveries on Wednesday.
This was not always the case. It is worth noting that the second edition of the Encyclopedia of New York City does not have an entry for snow. The entry for John Butler Snook, the architect, is followed by one on the Snug Harbor Cultural Center. (However, the Blizzard of 1888, which dropped 21 inches of snow, brought 60 m.p.h winds and led to an order that all overhead wires be buried, did earn its own entry.)
The heightened awareness that follows a failure of infrastructure after extreme weather is not unusual and not confined to winter. For example, since the blackouts of 2003 and, in Queens, 2006, officials and residents have sought reassurance from Con Edison that it was up to the task of keeping the energy flowing with the forecast of every heat wave.
''It's service provision,'' Ms. O'Halloran said. ''You can't just wait. You can't let garbage build up. You have to deal with it. Can your city function and provide the services necessary for you to get home, for children to get home, for cars not to be damaged and so forth?''
The answer this week, and perhaps for weeks and storms to come, is: we shall see. Only one thing will decrease snow jitters in New York to levels closer to plain old snow fatigue.
''You've got to get it right,'' Ms. O'Halloran said. ''Then people move on.''
Willie Jenkins, 62, another Pathmark shopper, has already moved on.
''It's going to melt eventually,'' he said, adding that the contents of his cart were merely the result of his latest monthly shopping excursion.
''I'm not worried,'' he said. ''I'm a native New Yorker. There are storms every winter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Snowplows at the ready. With the controversy over the city's response to the Dec. 26 storm, a forecast now has political weight. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); METEOROLOGY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



306 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Crisis Investments Are Showing Big Returns

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Central banking in the aftermath of a financial crisis is a lucrative business, it turns out.
The Federal Reserve will deliver a record $78.4 billion to the Treasury from its investments last year, a 65 percent increase from the $47.4 billion it transferred in 2009, according to preliminary estimates released Monday. 
''It's interest that the Treasury didn't have to pay to the Chinese,'' the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said, half-jokingly, during a Congressional hearing on Friday at which he offered a rough preview of the figures.
The transfer to the federal coffers is a byproduct of the ballooning Fed balance sheet, which now stands at nearly $2.5 trillion -- nearly triple what it was at the end of 2007, when turmoil from the bursting of the housing bubble began to disrupt financial markets.
The Fed has been amassing assets in an effort to stimulate growth by holding down long-term interest rates. Short-term rates, which the Fed influences more directly, have been essentially zero for more than two years. Low long-term rates have made borrowing cheaper for corporations and households and have lifted securities markets, though unemployment remains stubbornly high.
Last March, the Fed completed the purchase of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, and in November, it began buying $600 billion in Treasury bonds.
Interest income from its investment portfolio has produced record profits for the Fed for two consecutive years. But over time, when economic conditions improve, the portfolio could become a risk, because the investments could lose value when interest rates eventually rise.
''From the taxpayers' view, I think it is a mistake to make much of this number either way,'' said John H. Cochrane, an economist who has been critical of the central bank. ''The Fed is acting like a huge hedge fund on our behalf. It is borrowing at very low short-term rates and investing in long-term government bonds, mortgages and other risky loans. It made a profit on those investments last year, but it is bearing a lot of risk.''
Mr. Cochrane, a University of Chicago finance professor, said the Fed was intentionally bearing those risks to support housing and other markets.
''But inevitably, with a big portfolio of long-term bonds, mortgages and risky securities, the day will come when the Fed loses money on those investments, at least on a mark-to-market basis,'' Mr. Cochrane added, referring to the accounting the Fed uses to fairly value its balance sheet.
In testimony before the Senate Budget Committee on Friday, Mr. Bernanke acknowledged the risk. He gave an estimate of the Fed's profit for 2010 and said that it was ''much higher than normal.''
''Should it be the case that short-term interest rates rise, which of course could happen if the economy recovers and we need to normalize monetary policy, then those remittances could go down,'' Mr. Bernanke said Friday.
For now, Mr. Bernanke added, the Fed ''is a profitable program, from the perspective of the federal deficit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke testifying last Friday before a Senate Budget Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Profits From the Fed (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



307 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: On Walking, Chewing Gum, And Saying Sorry

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
No senior officials in the Bloomberg administration chewed gum on Monday as they walked into a City Council hearing on their bungled management of the post-Christmas blizzard. This was a wise move on their part. By their own admission, the walk-chew balance at City Hall is out of kilter right now.
Only a month ago, before the storm, representatives of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg insisted somewhat superciliously that everything was fine in this regard. The issue then was whether the mayor's desire to be a national figure on matters like gun control, immigration and economic policy might distract him from the less romantic, but essential, duties of running the city. His chief spokesman, Stu Loeser, was asked about this on Dec. 8 in an interview with NY1. 
Mr. Loeser's response was that Mr. Bloomberg and those around him can do it all. ''If there's one thing that the mayor has shown over the last eight years,'' he said, ''is that both he and we as a government really have the collective ability to walk and chew gum at the same time.''
A CityTime scandal and a disastrous snowstorm later -- you may also throw in the earlier inelegant management of the appointment of a new schools chancellor -- the walk-chew ratio turns out to need reconfiguration.
And so, led by City Hall's designated lightning rod, Stephen Goldsmith, the deputy mayor for operations, administration officials appeared before council members on Monday to acknowledge their errors during the blizzard and to vow to make amends.
Theirs was not quite the public display of contrition shown by Henry IV, the 11th-century monarch who sought absolution from the pope by doing three days of penance in the snow. Nonetheless, one by one, the officials humbled themselves, a stylized falling on swords not often seen outside of samurai movies.
From failing to declare a state of emergency to poorly deploying snowplows and leaving New Yorkers woefully ill-informed, the officials confessed to having collectively fouled up. ''Put simply, the city's response to this blizzard did not live up to the standards we set for ourselves and the standards the public expects and deserves,'' said Joseph F. Bruno, who heads the Office of Emergency Management.
The Council had expected to hear no less.
It held its session in the colonnaded main room of a former bank on Chambers Street, a setting far more august than the Council's own chamber in City Hall, which is undergoing restoration. Council members insisted that the hearing was about policy, not politics, a claim that made me think of a fellow who tried to have me believe years ago that he bought Playboy magazine for its Nabokov short stories, not its naked women.
No fewer than 43 of the Council's 51 members showed up, many of them poised to hurl verbal darts at the Bloomberg crew. The huge turnout was unusual, and it reflected public anger, especially in districts outside Manhattan that had hoped in vain for City Hall to speed the plows. What lawmaker wants to be seen as indifferent to constituents' suffering?
While absorbing the arrows, Mr. Goldsmith and his colleagues faithfully protected their patron, the mayor, who may long be remembered for his cosmically tin-eared remarks, as when he suggested to snowbound New Yorkers that they take in a Broadway show. His blitheness and seeming lack of empathy for those struggling to get through an ordeal were plainly on council members' minds. But Mr. Goldsmith said, ''The mayor did not have the information he deserved.'' He added, ''That was my mistake and others'.''
He also guarded Patricia E. Harris, the $245,760-a-year first deputy mayor, who has yet to account publicly for her own whereabouts and actions during the mess. Mr. Goldsmith deflected a question about what she had been up to.
There will be more hearings, including some planned for next week in each borough so that people can vent their frustration.
At Monday's session, in fine bureaucratic tradition, Mr. Goldsmith announced a ''15-point action plan'' for future snowstorms. Thus far this season, City Hall has shown that it can underreact to a blizzard and overreact to a mild dusting of snow. This new plan, which may get its first test as early as Tuesday night, is a corrective measure.
None of the 15 points recommends that the mayor not suggest to New Yorkers next time that they are whiners when they complain about things not going right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a City Council hearing on the Bloomberg administration's response to the post-Christmas blizzard, senior officials acknowledged that they had made errors and vowed to make amends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); GUN CONTROL (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



308 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: In Giffords's District, a Long History of Tension

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK, KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and ADAM NAGOURNEY; Sam Dolnick and Adam Nagourney reported from Tucson, and Katharine Q. Seelye from New York. Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Sam Dolnick, Katharine Q. Seelye and Adam Nagourney and written by Mr. Nagourney.
TUCSON -- Representative Gabrielle Giffords was distressed when the glass front door of her district office here was shattered by a kick or a pellet gun last March, an act of vandalism that took place hours after she joined Democrats in passing President Obama's health care bill. ''Things have really gotten spun up,'' she told a television interviewer the next day.
But tensions have long run high in the Eighth Congressional District of Arizona, a classic swing district that shares a 114-mile border with Mexico. Protesters chained themselves to the desks of Ms. Giffords's Republican predecessor, Jim Kolbe, 12 years ago. And over the past year, Ms. Giffords struggled in a brutal re-election campaign during which her opponent appeared in a Web advertisement holding an assault weapon. The district has become a caldron of divisions over government spending, immigration, health care and Barack Obama.
Today, the Eighth District stands apart as one of the most emotionally and politically polarized in the nation. 
The rampage on Saturday that left six dead and Ms. Giffords gravely wounded may prove to be an isolated act of violence by a mentally disturbed man. The suspect attended at least one of Ms. Giffords's town meetings before the event Saturday.
Still, the shootings came after a disconcerting run of episodes in this district of mountains and desert, raising temperatures here in a way that some of Ms. Giffords's friends argue fed an atmosphere that might encourage violence.
Several of them pointed back to the smashed door of her district headquarters at 1661 North Swan Street last March as a turning point; a time when a cloud of unease settled over Ms. Giffords and her staff.
She and aides began expressing worry about what they saw as an escalation of threats after a year of brutal town hall meetings over health care. They began to take precautions. ''When we did a swing through the district, we began telling the police what we are doing: We let them know where we were going to be,'' said Rodd McLeod, her campaign manager.
And Ms. Giffords made no secret at that time of saying she owned a handgun.
''She was extremely concerned about it,'' said Thomas Warne, a friend and fund-raiser. ''She was concerned about various threats that the office had received: they were general threats on the office itself, on her life.''
There have been no arrests related to the attack on her district office, said Sgt. Diana Lopez of the Tucson Police Department. It came after months in which Ms. Giffords, like other Democrats, found herself being battered at loud town hall meetings on health care. At one of her public meetings on health care, a man with a gun showed up. ''There was a sense, even in '09, that there was a real anger in the district,'' Mr. McLeod said.
And in an interview with MSNBC the day after the attack, Ms. Giffords said: ''We've had hundreds and hundreds of protesters over the last several months. Our office corner has become a place where the Tea Party movement congregates and the rhetoric is incredibly heated, not just the calls but the e-mails, the slurs.''
Last summer, Ms. Giffords found herself challenged by Jesse Kelly, a Republican candidate with Tea Party backing, who assailed Ms. Giffords on health care and immigration. He held a ''targeting victory'' fund-raiser in which he invited contributors to shoot an M-16 with him. This was playing out against a backdrop of a souring national economy and rising unhappiness with Democrats everywhere.
Mr. Kelly, who won the nomination after defeating a moderate Republican, offered tough-worded attacks on the establishment and Ms. Giffords. ''These people who think they are better than us, they look down on us every single day and tell us what kind of health care to buy,'' he said at a rally in October. ''And if you dare to stand up to the government they call us a mob. We're about to show them what a mob looks like.''
Despite all the vitriol, advisers to Ms. Giffords concluded in a post-election review of the race that one of the main reasons she won was likely a steady series of positive biographical advertisements she ran over the summer; for the most part she avoided attacking her opponent. ''People want their representatives to work together in a bipartisan way to get things done,'' she said at one event.
Mr. Kelly received financial support from the National Republican Congressional Committee to help pay for an advertisement. But outside groups focused on the race and invested more than $450,000 in television commercials against Ms. Giffords. The Republican primary did not take place until Aug. 24, giving her several months to command the airwaves in Tucson before her opponent was known.
The $3.4 million that Ms. Giffords raised was more than any other Congressional candidate in Arizona. In the heat of the campaign last fall, Republican officials expressed exasperation at the strength of her candidacy, often referring to Ms. Giffords as one of the smartest and strongest Democratic incumbents in the country.
The race -- one of the most dramatic in the country -- was so close it took three days to call it.
Ms. Giffords won a third term, but with just 49 percent of the vote, compared with 55 percent last time.
Representative Raul Grijalva, a Democrat from the neighboring Seventh District, said he was taken aback by the level of animosity in her district.
''We commiserated about the tone of the campaign and talked about how ugly it was and how angry people were,'' he said in an interview. ''Philosophically, she is more moderate and more centrist than me, and I couldn't understand that level of ire and that level of hatred against someone who is trying to accommodate and find common ground.''
Given its locale and its demographic mix, the Eighth District long offered a stage for a combustible mix of issues that have torn apart other parts of the country. But the divisions seemed particularly searing here. Because of efforts to more aggressively close California's border with Mexico, Arizona has seen a surge of illegal immigration that has heightened tensions. ''There was no question there were more and more illegal immigrants coming in,'' said Mr. Kolbe, who had held her seat. ''They were flooding in.''
Ms. Giffords was seeking re-election at a time when Arizona passed a tough law aimed at illegal immigrants, which Ms. Giffords opposed, and as the state faced a threatened boycott from parts of the nation for passing a law that many people saw as intolerant.
''Immigration, that's the ingredient that makes Arizona unique in a very twisted way,'' Mr. Grijalva said.
The 9,057-square-mile district is about 20 percent Hispanic. Given Arizona's strong brand of conservatism, it is notably centrist, though it leans Republican. Located in the southeastern corner of the state, it includes the Sonoran Desert and old frontier towns like Tombstone, as well as the high-tech corridors of Tucson and more liberal voters around the University of Arizona.
''She represents a very diverse area, from suburban soccer moms and pretty fervent Democrats at one end to the conservative ranchers on the border on the other end,'' said State Senator Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat from Phoenix who was born and raised about a mile from the Tucson supermarket where Ms. Giffords was shot.
The Eighth is one of many fast-growing areas of the Southwest, with the population up about 14 percent from 2000 to 2007. Much of the growth comes from people moving here from the Midwest, which partly accounts for its moderation. The district has two military installations and many military-industrial manufacturing companies
John McCain won Ms. Giffords's district in 2008, but the congresswoman went on to vote in favor of three cornerstones of Mr. Obama's presidency: the economic stimulus program, the health care legislation and cap and trade legislation, according to David Wasserman, who studies House races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.
Her re-election last year was in part a testimony to her personal popularity as well as her ability to present herself as a moderate. In one sign of her refusal to be lumped with liberals in Congress, she voted against Nancy Pelosi to become the Democratic leader in the new Congress. But it also reflected what was, for her, a bit of luck in facing an opponent with such strong ties to the Tea Party, which complicated his effort to attract Democratic independent voters.
Her campaign aides said Ms. Giffords said the political tension was hardly comfortable. ''That was a little disorienting for her,'' said Michael McNulty, who was her campaign chairman, adding: ''there would be a thousand people screaming about it and having at her one after another after another.'' Mr. Warne said the situation worsened as the economy deteriorated. ''We could feel a lot of things building up and a lot of animosity due to the economy,'' he said.
Whether all that had anything to do with what happened here on Saturday is another matter. Randy Graf, a former Republican state legislator who lost to Ms. Giffords in the 2006 Congressional race, said he did not believe the problems that have riven his district played any role in what happened.
''People are trying to rationalize an irrational event and in the process of doing that they're blaming the blameless,'' he said. ''The blame is being aimed at everything from the past campaign to the Tea Party when it should rest, by all reports, on the shooter himself.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about long-time political tensions in the Eighth Congressional District of Arizona, represented by Gabrielle Giffords, referred incorrectly to the National Republican Congressional Committee's financial support for Jesse Kelly, a Republican candidate with Tea Party backing who opposed Ms. Giffords in last year's election. The N.R.C.C. provided money to help pay for an advertisement for Mr. Kelly's campaign; it is not the case that Mr. Kelly did not receive financial support from the committee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prayers were said Monday at the Arizona Legislature in Phoenix for Representative Gabrielle Giffords and the others who were wounded or killed in the shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In March, Ms. Giffords's office in Tucson was vandalized, above. Ms. Giffords also faced a brutal campaign with harsh ads against her, left. On Monday, officers were outside the Arizona Capitol during a Tea Party rally, above left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OFFICE OF REPRESENTATIVE GABRIELLE GIFFORDS, VIA A.P.
YOUTUBE
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
At Representative Gabrielle Giffords's district office in Tucson, people left candles and cards for her and the other victims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) GRAPHICS: A Divided District: Arizona's Eighth Congressional District includes metropolitan Tucson and more conservative areas along the Mexican border. (Source: Arizona secretary of state
 Census Bureau) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); VANDALISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (94%); BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (95%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



309 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Safe Harbors for Derivatives vs. Chapter 11

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. LUBBEN


HIGHLIGHT: The special treatment of derivatives in bankruptcy can interfere with the use of Chapter 11 to resolve cases involving nonbank financial institutions. 

 BODY:
As I have noted before on DealBook, derivative contracts have a broad exception to the normal rules of bankruptcy, often called a safe harbor. Derivatives are not subject to the automatic stay, collateral collected on the eve of bankruptcy cannot be attacked as a preference, and derivative contracts are not subject to a debtor's ability to assume or reject contracts unless the nondebtor counterparty consents.
As some readers undoubtedly know, I have long argued that the special treatment of derivatives under the Federal Bankruptcy Code is largely unjustified. I also helped Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, with an amendment to the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory act that would have rolled back this special treatment, but the amendment never received a floor vote.
And I think the arguments against special treatment and the safe harbors are even more true after the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, given that the new resolution authority under that legislation limits the applicability of the special treatment for 24 hours, so the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation can transfer a financial institution's assets to a new owner or bridge company without the disruption or loss of value associated with the safe harbors. If the safe harbors are held in abeyance for the biggest financial firms, why should they apply to nonfinancial companies, where the justification for special treatment, typically tied to systemic risk, is much less compelling?
The World Bank held a forum on Tuesday on insolvency and creditor-debtor regimes, where I discussed how derivatives should be handled in corporate reorganization proceedings. The World Bank's forum is interesting and important, as it represents the first time that several of the academics who have criticized the safe harbors have been on the same panel with representatives of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, an industry trade group. Up until now, these two groups have conducted a rather oblique debate. See, for example, the trade group's recent research paper noting the arguments made by "academic researchers in the United States," without citing any of them.
Addressing the safe harbors is also important if we are to avoid excessive use of the new resolution authority. Reorganization experts of all stripes -- including, for example, David Skeel, a University of Pennsylvania law professor, and myself, people who had very different views on the automotive bankruptcy cases -- worry about the resolution authority and argue that it would be much better to use Chapter 11 to resolve cases involving nonbank financial institutions.
But that cannot be done so long as derivatives are not subject to Chapter 11, and derivatives portfolios make up so much of the going-concern value of many financial institutions.
A recent example of the potential utility of Chapter 11 in this context can be seen in the AmericanWest Bank case. This bankruptcy case has not received a good deal of attention, since it is pending in Spokane, Wash., rather than the usual hot spots of Wilmington, Del., or Lower Manhattan. But when Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, one of the big three Chapter 11 firms, representing the buyers of the bank in this case, and Morrison & Foerster, one of California's leading bankruptcy firms, representing the debtors, make the trip to the Pacific Northwest, it pays to figure out why.
The bankruptcy case in Spokane involved AmericanWest Bancorporation, the bank's parent company. Through the bankruptcy process, the parent company used the now famous, or infamous, Section 363 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code to sell the bank subsidiary to SKBHC Holdings, an entity backed by Oaktree Capital Management, Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Friedman, Fleischer & Lowe.
Last February, the F.D.I.C. ordered AmericanWest Bank to recapitalize, and the new owners will be doing just that, injecting more than $200 million into the bank. To be sure, this bank, with just over 40 branches, is somewhat smaller than those that are typically thought of when we consider Dodd-Frank's new resolution authority. Nonetheless, if the bankruptcy courts, the F.D.I.C. and leading bankruptcy counsel can begin to work together in these matters, there would seem to be no reason why the basic process could not be scaled up to larger financial institutions.
AmericanWest's Section 363 Filing

        
Big Law Job? There's an App for That
        
Westwood One and Dial Global to Merge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) AmericanWest Bank; Derivatives; Friedman Fleischer & Lowe; Goldman Sachs Capital Partners; Morrison & Foerster; Oaktree Capital Management; Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom; Banking and Financial Institutions; Bankruptcies; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; AmericanWest Bancorporation; Financial Services; In Debt; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); AMERICANWEST BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BILL NELSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (50%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



310 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Why So Many Rich People Don't Feel Very Rich

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: It's because they're trying to keep up with impossibly richer Joneses. Inequality is much greater at the top of the income distribution than in the middle or bottom. 

 BODY:
Our post last week on whether the salary of Robert Gibbs, who is leaving his post as White House press secretary, is "modest" provoked some interesting reader comments. Several readers chimed in to say that even if it most likely placed Mr. Gibbs comfortably in the top 10 percent of earners, an annual salary of $172,000 probably didn't like a lot of money, given where he lives, similarly educated counterparts in the private sector, etc.
But there seems to be a broader fissure underlying this discussion: why don't people at the 90th percentile of the income distribution feel particularly rich?
The answer is simple: because any Americans who richer than this cohort are so richer.
At the request of The New York Times, the Tax Policy Center estimated Americans' income percentiles for households across the United States in 2010. The numbers were calculated by Rachel Johnson, a research associate at the center, and were rounded to the nearest $100. The chart below shows where these income breaks fall.
As you can see, for the bottom 90 to 95 percent of Americans, the income distribution is relatively flat. For an American household in the bottom 30 percent of the distribution, a move upward of five percentiles (to the 35th percentile) would mean an increase in cash income of just a few thousand dollars. Same goes for a family at the 40th percentile, and at the 60th percentile. 
But notice what happens on the right side of the graph, around the percentiles in the mid-90s, when the line suddenly kinks upward.
The line gets much steeper because at the very top of the income scale, the monetary divisions between percentiles grow much greater. Those in the middle earn a little less than people a few percentiles up from them, whereas those at the top earn a lot less than their counterparts in nearby, higher percentiles. For example, those who aspire to hop from the 30th percentile to the 35th percentile would need to increase their cash income by $4,000 annually (or by about 17 percent); those who aspire to hop from the 94th percentile to the 99th percentile would require an increase of $324,900 (or 171 percent).
In other words, at least in dollar terms, there is much greater inequality at the very top of the income scale than at the bottom or in the middle. Whether this translates to much greater differences in standards of living at the top is debatable, as an extra $1,000 for a poor family likely makes a much bigger impact on that family's quality of life than an extra $1,000 for a wealthy family.
Still, when evaluating their own incomes, most families are trying to keep up with the Joneses: they envy the wealthier neighbor whose lifestyle they aim to match. And in dollar terms, the rich are falling far shorter of their respective Joneses than the middle-income and lower-income are.
So when the 95th-percentilers think of their incomes in the context of what their richer neighbors are earning, this cohort doesn't feel very rich. (Indeed, the gap between the rich and the very rich has been growing in the last few decades. Exactly why the gap has been growing is unclear, but it has most likely been influenced by a combination of tax policy, deregulation and technological advances that allow people to control more capital.)
It is perhaps no wonder, then, that so many people who are statistically rich call themselves "upper middle" or even "middle class." They are much, much richer than lots of poor people, but also much, much poorer than some very visibly rich people. From their perspective, they truly are in the middle. It's the income version of China's "Middle Kingdom" syndrome.
Addendum: Since a number of readers have asked for it, here is the Tax Policy Center's percentile data used to create the chart above.

        
Who Counts as 'Rich'?
        
Where Do You Fall on the Income Curve?
        
Everyone Is 'Middle Class,' Right?
        
Rich People Still Don't Realize They're Rich
        
About That 99 Percent ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%) high-income; inequality; low-income; upper middle class; wealth; High Net Worth Individuals; Income; Income Inequality; Economix

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



311 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Rising Chinese Inflation to Show Up in U.S. Imports

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang in Hong Kong contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- When garment buyers from New York show up next month at China's annual trade shows to bargain over next autumn's fashions, many will face sticker shock.
''They're going to go home with 35 percent less product than for the same dollars as last year,'' particularly for fur coats and cotton sportswear, said Bennett Model, chief executive of Cassin, a Manhattan-based line of designer clothing. ''The consumer will definitely see the price rise.''
Inflation has arrived in China. And after Tuesday's release of crucial financial statistics by China's central bank, few economists expect Beijing officials to be able to tame rising prices any time soon.
While American importers of Chinese goods will feel the squeeze, the effect on American consumers may be more subtle and the overall impact on United States inflation may be minimal. 
There are simply too many other markups along the way -- from transportation to salesclerks' wages -- that affect the American retail prices of Chinese-made products. Excluding those markups, imports from China are equal to little more than 2 percent of the overall American economy.
The bigger consumer impact is in China itself. As China's booming economy enables more of its own citizens to buy the goods pouring out of its factories, Chinese consumers are feeling inflation directly. And Beijing is increasingly worried about the social unrest that could result.
In China, consumer prices were 5.1 percent higher in November than a year earlier, according to official government data. And many economists say the official figures actually understate the rate of inflation, which might in reality be twice as high.
''Four percent, China can bear it -- beyond 5 percent, people will complain a lot,'' said Huo Jianguo, president of the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation here.
Higher global commodity prices, as well as rising wages in China, play roles in the increasing cost of Chinese goods. But economists say the main reason for the inflation now is China's foreign exchange reserves, which surged by a record amount in the fourth quarter.
The central bank has been pumping out currency at an ever-accelerating pace over the past decade to limit the renminbi's appreciation against the dollar. That strategy has helped preserve a competitive advantage of Chinese exporters by keeping their prices relatively low on global markets -- while also protecting the jobs of tens of millions of Chinese workers in export factories.
Now, though, that cheap currency policy seems to be reaching its limits. The extra renminbi are feeding inflation. That is starting to undermine exporters' price competitiveness -- just as a stronger renminbi would do if Beijing was not intervening to begin with.
Money supply figures for December, which the central bank released on Tuesday, showed that cash and bank deposits were increasing at a rate twice as fast as even China's soaring economy. Ever more renminbi are available to buy goods and services.
Victor Fung, the group chairman of Li & Fung in Hong Kong, a 35,000-employee trading company that supplies most of the world's big retailers with Asian goods, said that contracts signed late last year would produce a jump of 10 to 20 percent in the import prices of consumer goods arriving at American ports by the second quarter of this year.
''By the middle of this year, you'll see considerable diversion of trade away from China,'' which will start to bring down the United States trade deficit with China, Mr. Fung said in an interview.
But there are only limited alternatives to China as a supplier of cheap goods. As American retail chains scramble to shift orders to other countries like Bangladesh and the Philippines, they are finding that inflation is emerging as an issue across much of Asia.
What is more, the far smaller factories in other Asian countries have little capacity to absorb the huge orders that Chinese factories routinely handle, corporate executives and economists said.
In China, there is little question that the consumer price index understates the true extent of inflation.
A holdover from the days of central planning, the Chinese consumer price index includes apartment rents but excludes soaring costs for owner-occupied housing. And it is based heavily on the prices of an outdated list of consumer products that are no longer popular. Garments qualify for inclusion only once they have been on sale continuously for at least six months, for example, which frequently means that they are no longer in style.
Hu Xingdou, an economist at the Beijing Institute of Technology, said that a more accurate gauge of inflation would show consumer prices rising 10 percent a year. The National Bureau of Statistics has said it is actively studying ways to improve the consumer price index.
Inflation in China is not just the result of China's currency market intervention, although Mr. Hu and other economists describe it as the biggest single cause. Another cause is aggressive lending by Chinese banks, despite repeated demands by regulators to slow things down.
Rising prices for exports are also caused by wage increases for Chinese blue-collar workers, whose pay has been climbing as much as 15 percent a year. Those workers have more clout than they once did because the supply of factory labor from rural areas, which once seemed inexhaustible, is starting to dry up -- a result of three decades of China's ''one child'' policy of family planning, as well as a big expansion in university enrollment.
And globally, strong demand from consumers in China and other emerging economies is pushing up not only gasoline prices, but also the prices of cashmere, rabbit fur, cotton, copper and many other commodities.
Candy Chen, the sales manager of the Zhenjiang Weishun Toys Company in Zhenjiang, China, said that the cost of plastic stuffing for the company's toy animals had nearly doubled in the past year, while wages were up 10 to 15 percent.
The effect of higher prices in China on broad measures of American inflation is far from clear. The rule of thumb for many consumer products, from shoes to garments to toys, is that the import price is only a quarter to two-fifths of the final retail price, which also includes transportation within the United States and the wages, rent, electricity bills and other costs incurred by stores.
After showing little change for nearly two years, import prices for goods arriving from China at American docks rose from September to November at a rate equivalent to an annual rise of 3.6 percent.
In another indicator that the Chinese central bank released Tuesday, China's foreign reserves leaped by $199 billion in the fourth quarter. The increase was much larger than economists had expected, and they suggested that China had roughly doubled its intervention in currency markets to around $2 billion a day.
China's reserves, at $2.85 trillion, dwarf those of the world's second-largest holder, Japan, with $1.04 trillion. The United States, by contrast, holds only $46.4 billion of foreign reserves because it prints dollars, the main reserve currency.
Mr. Model of Cassin, who is visiting Beijing this week from his company headquarters just off Seventh Avenue, said that the world had changed and that Chinese manufacturers were now more interested in catering to their domestic market than in offering rock-bottom prices to big American companies.
''All of a sudden, they're more interested in selling domestically,'' he said. ''The American wholesaler will fight them on $5. The domestic retailer doesn't care as much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As China's booming economy has made its citizens more prosperous, prices for many items, from food to clothing to new cars, have been rising. And though many Chinese are earning higher salaries, the government has become worried that rising inflation could lead to social unrest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GOU YIGE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
ALEXANDER F. YUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) CHARTS: While China recorded robust economic growth in the last two years, its money supply soared . . .
 ... and foreign reserves rose sharply recently as the central bank intervened in currency markets to prevent the renminbi from rising. (Sources: China's National Bureau of Statistics and People's Bank of China, via CEIC Data) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); COTTON MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



312 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: The Real Problem With China

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
When China's president, Hu Jintao, visits here next week, the exchange rate between Chinese and American currency will inevitably become a big topic of conversation.
China has been holding down the value of its currency, the renminbi, for years, making Chinese exports to the United States cheaper and American exports to China more expensive. The renminbi's recent rise has been too modest to change the situation, and Mr. Hu's state visit is sure to highlight the real tensions between the countries.
Yet the focus on the currency has nonetheless become excessive. The truth is that the exchange rate is not the main problem for American companies hoping to sell more products in China and, in the process, create more jobs in this country. The exchange rate does not need to be the focus of next week's meetings. 
For the United States, the No. 1 problem with China's economy is probably intellectual property theft. Technology companies, for example, continue to notice Chinese government agencies downloading software updates for programs they have never bought, at least not legally.
No wonder China has become the world's second-largest market for computer hardware sales -- but is only the eighth-largest for software sales.
Next on the list, say people who work in China or do business there, is the myriad protectionist barriers China has put up. These barriers make this country's recent efforts at ''buy American'' protectionism look minor league. In some cases, Beijing has insisted that products sold in China must not only be made there but be conceived and designed there. The policy goes by the name ''indigenous innovation.''
The renminbi certainly matters, too. It affects the price of every American product sold there and every Chinese product sold here. But discussion of the renminbi typically ends up exaggerating the problem somewhat by relying on an imperfect measure.
The most relevant comparison of two currencies is one that is adjusted for inflation in the two countries. When inflation is higher in one country, as in China today, it means that country's products are becoming more expensive -- and imports into the country become relatively cheaper. In effect, the real price of Chinese-made goods is rising faster than the exchange rate suggests.
Without taking inflation into account, the renminbi has risen 3 percent against the dollar since last summer, when China began letting it rise. Once inflation is accounted for, the real increase has been about 5 percent. At that pace, the renminbi could erase its artificial undervaluation -- as some economists estimate it -- in less than two years.
Of course, one reason for the rise is the political pressure from the United States and other countries. As much as China's Communist Party leaders may claim otherwise, they really do respond to international lobbying sometimes.
The obvious question now is how the Obama administration can apply similar pressure on intellectual property theft and trade barriers. Arthur Kroeber, a Beijing-based consultant and editor of the China Economic Quarterly, goes so far as to call the currency discussion a distraction. ''What exactly there is to be gained by quibbling over a point or two in the annual appreciation rate,'' Mr. Kroeber says, ''is beyond me.''
The best hope for getting another country's leaders to do anything is to persuade them that it's in their interest. That task is not so easy with trade barriers, because every time an American company is kept from making a sale in China, a Chinese company presumably benefits. It makes the sale instead or, in the case of piracy, it saves money that it would have spent on the authentic product.
Still, China's leaders have reason to be nervous about all the barriers they have built. China's elite, in government and business, are deeply concerned that their companies remain unable to create truly innovative products. The obsession with the fact that no Chinese citizen has won a scientific Nobel Prize stems partly from this worry.
Opening up your economy to more competition may bring some short-term pain, but it also forces companies to become stronger and more creative -- or to wither. Competition breeds innovation.
This self-interest argument is the one that Mr. Obama and his advisers are most comfortable making. They worry that outright pressure on China will put it on the defensive and ultimately backfire. Sometimes, they may worry too much. Pressure clearly can work, as the last few months have demonstrated.
The United States should be able to round up some allies on these issues, just as it has with recent military matters relating to China. BASF and Siemens, two big German companies, have already complained about Chinese protectionism, as have some European leaders. Other countries also have reason to be frustrated with the exchange rate: relative to many currencies other than the dollar, the renminbi has actually lost value in recent months.
But even by itself, the United States is big enough -- and important enough to Chinese companies -- to exert some pressure. That is why the recent ''buy American'' provisions in a couple of bills, small as they may be, are useful. The same goes for continued discussion of Congressional bills that would penalize China.
If anything, the Republican takeover of the House offers a new chance to hold hearings on those bills. Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who will become chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has been a vocal critic of China's protectionism.
Finally, both Republicans and Democrats can use Mr. Hu's coming visit to emphasize -- to him and to the many Chinese citizens who will be following -- just how frustrated many Americans are with the economy's woes. As the scholar Zhang Guoqing wrote in a Chinese newspaper recently, ''A high unemployment rate and the trouble in stimulating the economy'' are helping to create ''enormous hidden dangers'' in the United States.
One of those dangers is the possibility that American politicians will eventually decide that tough talk isn't enough to satisfy voters' anger. If that day comes, the United States and China could end up in a trade war that only worsens the situation for both countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chinese-made products at a wholesale market in Yiwu in Zhejiang Province. China has major barriers to foreign goods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); JOB CREATION (54%); PROPERTY CRIMES (53%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



313 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: On Flatbush Avenue, Seven Stories Chock-Full of Ideas

BYLINE: By JED LIPINSKI

 BODY:
When Al Attara bought a former bank on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn 32 years ago for under $250,000, he envisioned it as a complex in which artists, architects and furniture designers would work side by side and share ownership of the 45,000-square-foot space.
But Mr. Attara's plans languished, in part because the bank building was declared part of the Brooklyn Center Urban Renewal Area, meaning that the city could reclaim it at any time. Only now -- four years after he learned that the city had no plans to acquire the property -- is his vision coming to life.
A menagerie of creative entrepreneurs occupies the seven-story building, now known as the Metropolitan Exchange, or MEx, including biotechnologists, ecologically minded architects, organic fashion designers and even miniature-cupcake makers. Most came in search of cheap rent -- which runs to around $400 per desk per month -- and a place to hatch their start-ups. The open floor plans, communal kitchens and Mr. Attara's philanthropic nature have made for an unusually symbiotic work environment, tenants say. 
''Once we get more people,'' said Mr. Attara, ''I want to rename it the Brooklyn Arts and Design Arena -- or BADA. Since we're in the BAM District, it'll be BADA-BAM.'' The Brooklyn Academy of Music Cultural District encompasses the blocks around Flatbush Avenue, Fulton Street and Hanson Place. At present, the building, at 33 Flatbush Avenue at Livingston Street, is only 50 percent occupied. But the seventh floor offers a glimpse of the future.
Here a dozen ecological and technology entrepreneurs work in constant collaboration. Amanda Parkes, a co-founder of a biofuel start-up called Bodega Algae, also designs what she calls ''parasitic energy costumes'' that capture energy generated by the body in motion. So when a Parisian dance company commissioned costumes for a performance this winter, Ms. Parkes solicited the help of James Patten, an interactive designer, and Jessica Banks, a roboticist, who sit 15 feet away.
''I feel like this space contains all the skill sets I would ever need to get anything done,'' Ms. Parkes said. ''In a competitive work environment like New York City, to find free labor and open advice is incredibly valuable. And comforting, too.''
Mitchell Joachim, an ecological architect and one of three TED fellows (for technology, entertainment and design)on the floor, likens the Metropolitan Exchange to a modern-day version of Bauhaus, the German design school. ''People here have enormous credentials and potential to succeed,'' Mr. Joachim said. ''Plus the rent is ridiculously cheap.''
Mr. Joachim's nonprofit design collective, Terreform One, promotes green initiatives in cities. Its conceptual projects are on display, including One-Day Tower, a model of a 53-story building built from all the trash produced by New York City in 24 hours.
Mr. Attara, a former ecological designer who also owns three residential buildings on Atlantic Avenue, shares his tenants' passion for recycling and re-use. ''When new people move into the building, I say, 'Let's go shopping,' '' he said. By ''shopping'' he means rooting through the vast stockpile of reclaimed furniture and semifunctional debris he has collected and stored throughout the building over 32 years.
Much of his collection is eccentric. Visitors entering the first-floor lobby will encounter, for example, a fortune-telling weight scale, props from a Randy Newman musical and a pommel horse. ''This is my Rosebud,'' he announced on a recent visit, unveiling an ornate horse-drawn sleigh from the 1890s.
But tenants put many of these objects to use. Paul Sladkus, the founder of Good News Broadcast, outfitted his fourth-floor TV studio with curtains from the Biltmore Hotel and a wooden room divider Mr. Attara rescued from the old Engineers Club at Grand Central Station.
MEx's double life as a castoff furniture warehouse recalls the building's original incarnation as the B. G. Latimer & Sons Furniture Company. Built in 1917, the building, with its fireproof neoclassical design, was described by The Brooklyn Daily Eagle as ''one of the finest commercial structures in Brooklyn.''
In 1929, the Corn Exchange Bank took over the first floor, later merging with the Chemical Bank to become the Chemical Corn Exchange Bank. The upper floors held decorating shops and printing presses. Mr. Attara has a photograph of the Brooklyn Dodgers parading past the building after winning the 1955 World Series, rolls of toilet paper flying from the third-story window.
But when the urban renewal plan was approved in 1970, the building emptied. After Mr. Attara took over in 1978, he rented studio space to ''poor starving artists,'' he said.
A few of those artists have remained. Jason Rogenes, an installation artist who builds hanging sculptures of plastic foam that resemble spacecraft, has kept a drafty studio on the first floor since 2000. On cold nights, instead of walking home, he has occasionally crashed in an insulated air duct, he recalled.
The transformation of 33 Flatbush into MEx occurred in 2006, after Mr. Attara ran into a friend from the New York City Economic Development Corporation who explained that the city did not intend to develop his building. That left Mr. Attara free to go after longer-term tenants.
''It is not unusual for urban renewal plans to list properties proposed for acquisition where the properties are never actually acquired,'' Eric Bederman, a spokesman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, wrote in an e-mail.
Interboro Partners, an urban design and research firm, became Mr. Attara's first substantial tenant. Shortly after, the words ''Metropolitan Exchange Bank'' were affixed to the concrete facade during a film shoot for ''Definitely, Maybe,'' a romantic comedy starring Ryan Reynolds. Members of Interboro liked the sound of Metropolitan Exchange, and registered the name.
Tenants say that MEx follows the principles of a gift economy. Heating and plumbing repairs, for instance, can be exchanged for discounted, or even free, rent. But increasing property values in the area have caused Mr. Attara's real estate tax to soar (it reached $180,000 in 2008), forcing him to borrow from friends and family. In 2009, he took in only around $120,000 in rent, he said.
To make MEx work financially, he said, he intends to install an anchor tenant (''preferably a food emporium, with chefs, farmers and food people'') on the ground floor, and rent the fourth floor to a civic-minded small business.
In keeping with his original vision, he has turned down several law firms, despite the much-needed revenue they would provide. ''They just wanted square footage and privacy,'' he said, ''and privacy doesn't really exist here.''
He also declined a $20 million offer from a development company that wanted to erect a 45-story residential tower in MEx's place and rent the first level to a big-box store. He insists MEx remain ''an incubator for incubators.''
Some of their ideas have already hatched. Crop to Cup, an organic coffee importer, recently moved into a large storefront on Third Avenue in Gowanus after two years on the fifth floor.
''We outgrew the space, in a good way,'' said Taylor Mork, a co-founder. ''We were getting 1,000-pound shipments of coffee beans, and we wanted a coffee lab and a retail space.''
Should the building reach a critical mass, Mr. Attara intends to offer tenants collective ownership of the building, though he has not made a formal proposal, he said. For now, he is collaborating with some of them to raise money for the space. With the help of EcoSystems, a sustainable furniture company on the seventh floor, he recently built a teak dining table that converts into a love seat. One hundred copies are being fabricated in Indonesia.
''We're calling it the BADA table,'' Mr. Attara said with a grin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Amanda Parkes of Bodega Algae, Maria Aiolova and Mitchell Joachim of Terreform One and James Patten of Patten Studios. At left, Al Attara, a designer who owns the Metropolitan Exchange building, which houses all their businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); BIOMASS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); FASHION DESIGN (72%); CHARITIES (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (69%); DANCE COMPANIES (65%); DANCE (65%); BIOFUELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



314 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Schwab to Pay $119 Million to Settle Bond Fund Allegations

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Charles Schwab Corporation agreed on Tuesday to pay $119 million to settle federal and state lawsuits in which regulators accused the company of misleading investors in a bond mutual fund that contained risky mortgage-backed securities.
The Securities and Exchange Commission also filed civil complaints against two senior Schwab executives who oversaw the fund. Those lawsuits continue despite the settlement by the company.
In documents filed in federal court in San Francisco, the commission accused Schwab of making ''misleading statements'' about the riskiness of its YieldPlus fund, which it held out as equivalent to an ultrasafe money market investment. In reality, according to the complaint, the fund contained risky mortgage-backed securities. When the housing market collapsed, the fund suffered big losses. 
The Schwab executives - Kimon Daifotis, former chief investment officer for fixed-income products, and Randall Merk, an executive vice president who was trustee of the YieldPlus fund - were accused of ''fraudulent and deceptive conduct'' for making a series of misrepresentations and omissions in marketing documents for the fund.
Regulators also contend that the executives violated federal securities laws as well as Schwab's own policies by failing to obtain shareholder approval when more than 25 percent of its assets came from a single industry. Mortgage-related investments made up roughly 50 percent of the assets in the YieldPlus fund. Both executives are planning to contest the agency's charges, according to Schwab.
In its settlement with the S.E.C. and a separate one with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Schwab agreed to pay $110 million in penalties and interest into a federal fund set up to compensate harmed shareholders, with another $9 million going to regulators in Illinois. Schwab also agreed to have an independent consultant review its fund marketing practices.
The settlements bring to $350 million the amount Schwab has agreed to pay to resolve litigation involving YieldPlus. Last fall, the company said it would pay more than $235 million to resolve two private class-action lawsuits brought by shareholders. That settlement deal awaits approval next month.
In a statement, Schwab called the S.E.C. settlement a ''constructive conclusion'' but, as it had in the past, shifted the bulk of the blame to the crisis in the housing market. ''We regret shareholders lost money,'' it said. ''The decline in the YieldPlus fund was the result of an unprecedented and unforeseeable credit crisis and market collapse.''
The regulatory suits against Schwab are the latest in a series of enforcement actions taken against banks and brokerage firms in the wake of the financial crisis. Besides the Schwab case, the S.E.C. has brought civil charges against retail-oriented mutual funds run by Evergreen Investments, Morgan Keegan and the State Street Corporation.
Federal investigators are looking into the practices of similar bond funds at Bank of America and Citigroup that were aimed at institutional clients, according to people with knowledge of the investigations.
S.E.C. officials said the Schwab case sent a message that retail investors needed to be fully informed of the risks being taken with their money. ''All financial firms and professionals - including large mutual fund providers - must be vigilant in accurately describing the risks of the products they sell to the public,'' Robert Khuzami, the director of enforcement, said in a statement.
In October 2009, Schwab acknowledged that it had received a Wells notice from the S.E.C. saying the commission might file civil charges against the company and at least one senior executive.
At its peak, YieldPlus was the industry's largest short-term bond fund, with more than $13.5 billion in assets and 200,000 accounts. But as the housing market started to collapse in late 2007, the fund's value plummeted. Many investors redeemed their holdings, putting the fund under enormous pressure to raise cash.
In an effort to dissuade YieldPlus customers from redeeming their investments, regulators say, Mr. Daifotis told a group of brokers who were to communicate with Schwab investors that ''we've got very, very, very slight negative flows'' out of the fund. In reality, the complaint says, Mr. Daifotis knew that investors were seeking redemptions totaling more than $1.2 billion.
In a statement, Susan Brune, a lawyer for Mr. Merk, said that the S.E.C.'s claims were ''infected by hindsight bias and not supported by the actual evidence.''
David Bayless, a lawyer for Mr. Daifotis, could not be reached.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Charles Schwab Corporation agreed to settle suits against one of its bond mutual funds. Above, an office in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); LITIGATION (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (95%); STATE STREET CORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (77%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (95%); STT (NYSE) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



315 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Texas Republicans Savoring Power

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- Two years ago, Marva Beck's main concern was hauling feed out to cattle on her ranch and trying to avoid getting run over by hungry cows. But on Tuesday she took the oath of office in the Texas House of Representatives, one of a score of conservative neophytes who upset longtime incumbents in November.
When she walked into the imposing Capitol this week, Ms. Beck admitted she had a moment of awe and disbelief. A 66-year-old rancher and master gardener with no political experience, she had knocked off the longtime Democratic minority leader, Jim Dunnam. She did it by running on a promise to slash the size of government and to never, ever, pass new taxes. 
''When I first walked into the Capitol,'' she said, ''I thought, 'Oh, wow, I'm here.' ''
Many of the 38 members of the House's freshman class -- the largest in nearly four decades -- were experiencing similar amazement. Riding a wave of populist anger, the Republican Party gained 22 House seats on Election Day and picked up two party switchers in December, giving it an unassailable majority of 101 in the 150-member House. They have stormed into Austin vowing to reinvent government and make Texas the model of fiscal austerity.
They have their work cut out for them. Though Gov. Rick Perry often talks about how strong the Texas economy is, the state did not escape the national recession unscathed. Property tax revenues, the main source of revenue, plummeted over the last two years, and the state now faces a budget deficit of $15 billion to $27 billion in the next two-year spending plan, depending on whether one freezes spending at current levels or allows for growth.
And since most of the budget goes for education and health care, the cuts are going to be painful, budget analysts say.
But many of the incoming conservatives, like Ms. Beck, promise to maintain their government-pruning zeal, even if it means making decisions like cutting teachers and raising college tuition. ''You drive the car, you fall asleep at the wheel and you end up in the ditch,'' Ms. Beck said. ''And I think America is in the ditch, and we have to get out.''
Speaker's Race
Texas is now essentially a one-party state, and the real action is between factions under the Republican tent. Nowhere was that more evident than in the contest for speaker of the House.
In the end, Speaker Joe Straus III, Republican of San Antonio, beat back a challenge from conservative lawmakers and outside groups. Mr. Straus was first elected speaker two years ago, with no small amount of Democratic support when the Republicans had only a one-seat advantage. But after the November elections, a coalition of Tea Party activists, anti-abortion groups and archconservative lawmakers waged a campaign to remove him, arguing that he was too moderate for a chamber that had shifted to the right. Two more-conservative Republicans -- Ken Paxton of McKinney and Warren Chisum of Pampa -- threw their hats into the ring.
The battle was less than gentlemanly. Mr. Straus's Jewish faith briefly became an issue when e-mail was circulated suggesting that the House needed a ''Christian conservative.'' (Mr. Paxton and Mr. Chisum quickly denounced the message.) His credentials as a fiscal conservative were also attacked, as was his reluctance to bring to the floor legislation meant to crack down on illegal immigrants.
On Monday, more than 200 Tea Party activists descended on the Capitol to demand Mr. Straus's ouster and vowed to punish any lawmakers who voted for him.
''Conservatives in Texas are rising up to have our voices heard,'' said Dennis Edwards, who addressed an anti-Straus rally outside the Capitol.
''Joe Straus is trying to take away their voice,'' Mr. Edwards said.
But the outside pressure proved no match for the influence Mr. Straus holds over veteran Republican members. He won a straw vote in the party caucus by 70 to 30.
After the meeting, Mr. Straus, who is known for his gentlemanly style, denied there was a rift in the party. ''I don't think there is a friction there, once people get the facts,'' he said. Mr. Chisum dropped out of the race before the House assembled, and Mr. Paxton surrendered on the floor before the vote by the full House.
In the Hallways
The opening day of the Legislature usually excites only political scientists, reporters and the lawmakers themselves. But there was no shortage of enthusiasm in Austin as the 82nd Session (the Legislature is a biennial affair) got under way.
Hundreds lined the marble hallways for a spot in the gallery to watch the pomp and ceremony. Scores were from Tea Party organizations, who had come to support Mr. Paxton. One Paxton supporter had propped up a sign with some binoculars in the hall, saying, ''We are watching you.''
But it was lonely for advocates trying to protect programs from cuts. About 40 disabled people handed out pamphlets arguing against cuts to home-care services for the disabled under Medicare. They acknowledged that the political winds were against them.
''It's horrible, horrible,'' said Bob Kafka, an advocate for the disabled who was trying to get in to see the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
Before the swearing-in ceremonies, the offices of lawmakers were crowded with family members and well-wishers. Everyone seemed to be taking photos of one another or of themselves with their favorite lawmaker.
The unusually large crowd reflected the sense of history surrounding the session. Faced with enormous budgeting challenges, Republicans -- from freshman insurgents to veterans -- said they saw the financial crisis as a chance to revamp the government. Whole bureaucracies would tumble, they predicted.
''We have to drastically transform government,'' said Representative James White, a Tea Party Republican from East Texas and the first African-American to be elected from his district near Lufkin. ''Republicans are not going to cut our way out of this. We are not going to tax and spend our way of this. We have to redo the box.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Well-wishers gathered in the office of State Representative David Simpson, a freshman Republican, on Tuesday, the Texas Legislature's opening day, as last-minute wiring continued.
 Justices of the Texas Supreme Court recited the Pledge of Allegiance on the Legislature's opening day. A constituent's sign placed in a Capitol hallway had a warning for lawmakers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); GARDENING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TUITION FEES (67%); SUPREME COURTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (59%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



316 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Young People Are Heeding Austin's Call, Data Shows

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Austin, Tex., drew the largest numbers of young Americans from 2007 through 2009, according to an analysis by a senior demographer at the Brookings Institution, replacing Riverside, Calif., which was the most popular destination for young people in the middle of the decade. 
Migration slowed greatly during the recession, and rates have continued to remain low. But in an analysis of migration still occurring among some of the country's most mobile citizens -- people ages 25 to 34 -- the cities at the top of the list were those that had remained economically vibrant, like Dallas, and those that were considered hip destinations, like Austin and Seattle, the demographer, William H. Frey, found.
In the middle of the decade, before the recession, the top five destinations were Riverside, Phoenix, Atlanta, Houston and Charlotte, N.C., according to the analysis, which was based on Census Bureau data. Austin ranked ninth in that period, and Las Vegas was No. 10.
Cities like Las Vegas and Riverside became popular destinations in the last decade, when overheated housing markets were churning growth and jobs. But since the recession began, they have fallen in the list of choices.
From 2007 through 2009, the most recent data available, Dallas, Denver and Seattle moved into the top five. Riverside fell to 10th place, and Las Vegas to 24th.
Houston remained the fourth-most-popular city for migrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); RANKINGS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); CENSUS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



317 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. Index Rallies From a 3-Day Slump

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index on Tuesday rebounded from a three-day slump after Sears Holdings' profit forecast and Lennar's earnings beat estimates. Higher oil prices drove up energy shares.
''There's still good stock market momentum,'' said Kevin Caron, a market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Company. ''We continue to get improvement in the earnings picture,'' he said. ''The equity market looks reasonable, assuming the economy continues to expand.''
By the end of the day, the S.& P. 500 increased 0.4 percent to 1,274.48, almost returning to its highest level since September 2008. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 34.43 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,671.88. The Nasdaq rose 9.03 points, or 0.33 percent, to 2,716.83. 
The S.& P. 500 has gained 88 percent since its March 2009 low amid government measures to stimulate the economy and as companies reported better-than-estimated earnings. Companies in the index posted higher-than-estimated results in all three quarters reported so far for 2010, and analysts predict they will climb 14 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.
Sears was among the stocks that drove the rally. The chain said it would earn $3.39 to $4.12 a share before one-time items for the fourth quarter. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated a profit of $3.05 on average. Sears's shares jumped 6.3 percent to $75.03.
Lennar, one of the country's largest home builders, advanced 7.1 percent to $20.24. It reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates. Shares of the Apollo Group, the operator of profit-making colleges like the University of Phoenix, added 13.4 percent to close at $40.74. Apollo said earnings in the first quarter were $1.63, surpassing the $1.35 average estimate of analysts.
Oil prices rose $1.86 to $91.11 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, sending shares of energy companies higher. Chevron added 1.6 percent to $91.83. Schlumberger, the largest oil-field services provider, rallied 2 percent to $82.26.
MBIA, the bond insurer, rose 10 percent to $13.53. A New York appeals court dismissed one of two lawsuits against the company over its restructuring. Mortgage insurers also gained. Radian Group climbed 5.4 percent to $9.35. PMI Group rose 3.6 percent to $3.77.
Advanced Micro Devices slumped 9 percent to $8.36. The chip maker named Thomas Seifert as interim chief executive officer, as Dirk Meyer resigned.
Some analysts, however, are being cautious about the rally. The S.& P. 500's valuation may tumble to the lowest level since the 1980s as profits rise faster than stock prices over the coming years, according to Janney Montgomery Scott.
The price-to-earnings multiple for the United States equity benchmark may fall near 10 on a monthly basis, the valuation trough experienced in the previous three long-term bear markets since 1900, said Dan Wantrobski, director for technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott. The index is trading at about 15.8 times reported operating profits.
''In past secular bear cycles, the U.S. has typically undergone a postcrisis recovery period where earnings rise against a range-bound stock market,'' Mr. Wantrobski wrote in a note to clients on Monday. ''The U.S. equity markets are entering this phase of the secular bear market.''
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 15/32, to 94 1/32. The yield rose to 3.34 percent, from 3.28 percent late Monday.
Indexes in the United States followed gains in Europe as Japan pledged to buy bonds issued by Europe's financial-aid funds, joining China in helping the region as it battles a debt crisis that prompted bailouts of Ireland and Greece.
''It's appropriate for Japan to make a contribution as a leading nation to increase trust in the deal,'' Japan's finance minister, Yoshihiko Noda, said at a news conference in Tokyo on Tuesday. ''We want to buy more than 20 percent.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (64%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (60%); LITIGATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (70%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%); APOLLO GROUP INC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); RADIAN GROUP INC (51%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%); APOL (NASDAQ) (53%); RDN (NYSE) (51%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (70%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (70%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: DERRICK R MEYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



318 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Omnicom Adds to Its Repertoire in Brand Licensing

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE Omnicom Group is adding to its holdings in the field of brand and corporate licensing by acquiring a leading company that makes licensing deals for marketers like Procter & Gamble.
Omnicom is the second largest Madison Avenue holding company, behind WPP; its advertising agencies include BBDO, DDB and TBWA. Since 2005, Omnicom has also owned the Beanstalk Group, one of the largest brand and corporate licensing companies.
On Wednesday, Omnicom plans to announce that its Diversified Agency Services division is acquiring Nancy Bailey & Associates, which works for marketers like Procter, Arby's, Energizer, Nestle and Pennzoil-Quaker State. 
Bailey, which has a total of 12 employees at a headquarters in Atlanta and an office in Miami, will become a division of Beanstalk, which has about 80 employees total at a headquarters in New York and offices in Dearborn, Mich., Hong Kong, London and Los Angeles. The financial terms of the deal are not being disclosed.
Because Beanstalk also handles licensing matters for Procter, the two agencies will form a team to work with that company in Asia, Europe and the United States. Other Beanstalk clients include American Tourister, AT&T, HGTV, Jaguar, Land Rover, Stanley Works and the Army.
In corporate and brand licensing, a company hoping to enhance the appeal of its merchandise to consumers buys rights to another company's brand, name or intellectual property.
For instance, AT&T licenses its name to companies that sell phones, Hershey licenses its name to companies that sell school supplies, and Procter licenses the Mr. Clean name to companies that sell mops, brooms, gloves and other cleaning supplies.
Recently, retailers like Kmart, Target and Wal-Mart have been signing licensing deals so they can sell apparel brands like Max Azria and Mossimo exclusively.
Not all licensing agreements are winners. For example, outcries from consumer activists in the 1990s forced soft-drink marketers to stop licensing the names of brands like Dr Pepper, Pepsi-Cola and 7Up to companies selling baby bottles.
Among other companies that handle corporate and brand licensing are Equity Management, Global Icons, IMC Licensing, and the IMG Licensing division of IMG Worldwide.
The acquisition of Bailey is indicative of efforts by the holding companies to make sure they have offerings in areas that are of growing importance to marketers. Among them, in addition to licensing, are social media, analytics, cause marketing and public relations.
''Marketers are beginning to understand the importance of licensing as a marketing tool,'' said Tom Harrison, chairman and chief executive of the Diversified Agency Services division of Omnicom in New York.
''I think it's a wine that's just about at its time,'' he added.
Based on the recent growth of both Bailey and Beanstalk, Mr. Harrison said, the combined entity ''can grow double, triple in size.''
''While large is certainly not a strategy for us,'' he added, ''most influential is certainly something we like to be.''
Omnicom has been interested in acquiring Bailey for at least five years, Mr. Harrison said. Nancy Bailey, who is chairwoman of the agency she founded in 1982, said she has been listening for a decade to deal talk from the likes of Omnicom and two WPP agencies, JWT and Y&R.
''I have always wanted to sell my company to an advertising agency,'' said Ms. Bailey, who is 66, particularly as licensing is ''becoming a strong part of the marketing mix.''
''Brand licensing belongs in a brand environment,'' she added.
Ms. Bailey will become a vice chairwoman of Beanstalk and report to Michael S. Stone, president and chief executive.
''Nancy and I have been mutually respectful competitors for a lot of, lot of years,'' said Mr. Stone, 59, who co-founded Beanstalk with Seth Siegel in 1992. ''She's one of the few competitors I felt would be a cultural fit with us.''
''I probably talked to Nancy every six or 12 months for three years, asking, so are you ready to be acquired,'' he added. ''I guess she finally was.''
Ms. Bailey, laughing, corroborated that account. ''Every January, he calls me and asks, 'Is it time?' '' Ms. Bailey said. ''I finally said, O.K., it's time.''
Licensing has not been immune to the financial crisis. Domestic retail sales of licensed merchandise fell 11.5 percent in 2009 compared with 2008, according to a trade publication, The Licensing Letter.
''The shopping experience is a difficult one,'' Mr. Stone said, and ''a brand gives a consumer an opportunity to make a decision.''
There has recently been ''an uptick of interest'' in signing new deals for licensed products, Mr. Stone said, which is ''very encouraging.''
Ms. Bailey said she believed that despite the economy, ''brands retain their power'' because consumers perceive that ''brands bring added value to the merchandise.''
She cited a decision last year by Wal-Mart to reverse a reduction in shelf space in 2009, when thousands of name-brand products disappeared. Among them were Arm & Hammer and Wisk liquid laundry detergents, Chex Mix and Glad plastic bags.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Clean products, left, are among Nancy Bailey & Associates' licensing deals. AT&T licensing, right, is one of the Beanstalk Group's deals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LICENSING AGREEMENTS (94%); BRANDING (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); SOFT DRINKS (85%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); RETAILERS (70%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (98%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); SHELL OIL CO (57%); DIVERSIFIED AGENCY SERVICES LTD (57%); NESTLE SA (57%); NANCY BAILEY & ASSOCIATES INC (57%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (55%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (55%); AMERICAN TOURISTER (55%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (98%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (57%); SWK (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS316998 ALL OTHER LEATHER GOOD & ALLIED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3161 LUGGAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (75%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



319 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BAGHDAD JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: City Upon a Hill of Scraps: Surviving on Scavenging in Iraq

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Yasir Ghazi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- At the bottom of the economy here, life revolves around that humblest of commodities, garbage.
On a recent morning, Hamad Tarish dropped down a bag of cans and scrap metal, showing off blackened hands that rarely touched running water. For Mr. Tarish, 22, garbage is his capital. Every night around 3 a.m. he leaves his home to scavenge in a neighborhood to the south before the sanitation trucks come, hustling to avoid the police and to compete with other collectors.
In front of a stretch of makeshift cinder-block houses he threw his haul onto a scale. Seventeen pounds of aluminum cans, worth $6. A hunk of scrap metal and a pound of wire from which he had burned the rubber insulation, each good for $2. In all, $10 to buy food for himself, his wife and their two children. 
For Mr. Tarish, who said he usually earned about $4 a day, it was a good harvest. Tomorrow might not be as good, he said. You could never tell. His eyes were bloodshot, his limbs hung heavy with exhaustion.
''A kilogram of meat is $15,'' he said. ''It's impossible. I don't buy sugar for tea.''
As Iraq's economy languishes, Mr. Tarish has found his livelihood in an underground economy that sustains and organizes whole neighborhoods. Around him were his fellow foot soldiers in this new marketplace -- the nocturnal scavengers, the middlemen who bought the scrap for cents on the pound, the dirty horse-drawn carts bringing in more debris from more remote parts of the city. And around these were piles and piles of garbage, sorted by type and swarmed over by flies.
''People here are living on garbage and animals,'' said Ali Hasun, 27, a middleman, gesturing around him at a horizon of improvised houses pressed one against another as far as the eye could see -- a midsize city subsisting on refuge.
Mr. Hasun is a father of four. Like others, he said he would like a regular job but could not find one. Some days he earns as much as $20, other days, nothing.
''Before it was embarrassing to let other people see us buying garbage,'' he said. ''We are young and care how we look. But after a while you forget.'' And besides, he added, noting the brisk trade going on all around him, everybody else was doing it, too.
Mr. Hasun and Mr. Tarish live in a vast slum named Naser City, or Victory City, one of dozens of squatter settlements that have sprung up around Baghdad since the American invasion of 2003. Naser City, one of the largest, grew exponentially through the waves of sectarian violence that displaced people from other areas, and more recently because unemployment has forced others to leave their homes. With Baghdad experiencing a housing shortage, the squats -- where land is free but illegal, and housing is whatever a family can erect -- are in a construction boom.
Residents of Naser City believe that as many as 500,000 people live here, but that is just guesswork. The governor of Baghdad estimates that 600,000 people live in 42 squatter encampments around the city -- roughly the population of Boston. But in a country without a census, where few government agencies venture into the squats, this, too, is more belief than fact.
''Those people need to pick up garbage because there are no chances to work,'' said the governor, Salah Abdul-Razzaq.
Because the communities were not legal, he said, the province did not provide services like education, medical care, security, electricity, sewage and clean water. ''The neighborhoods become places for criminals, thieves, terrorists, kidnappers. But we can't move them out because there are no alternatives.''
Thijel Ebrah, 58, moved to Naser City from Amara, a city to the east of Baghdad, in 2005, at the height of sectarian violence there. He could not find work in Amara; in Baghdad, the situation was even worse.
He stood in front of the two-room cinder-block structure he built on vacant land, where he now lives with his wife and five children. Three of his children commute to a school outside the settlement; two support the family by collecting garbage. They cook and heat the house by burning wood, because oil is too expensive, he said; when there is no wood they wrap themselves in blankets. An open sewage ditch ran in front of the house.
But the hardest part, he said, was sending his children off to collect garbage.
''I'm afraid one day they won't come back,'' he said. ''If they go out in the morning I'm afraid. If they go out at night it's worse. The security forces see them digging in the garbage and think they're hiding I.E.D.'s,'' he said, using the shorthand for improvised explosive devices.
''We lived with injustice during Saddam, but now it's worse,'' he said. ''The government does nothing.''
For the collectors, scavenging has its codes. Informal turf agreements keep people from fighting over the same territories. And timing is everything.
''There's two shifts,'' said Karar Kareem, 16, who lives in a large squat at the edge of Sadr City, the Shiite enclave in Baghdad. ''People throw out garbage late at night and early in the afternoon. It depends on how early you go out, and how quick you are.'' Cans are more plentiful during the hot summer days, when people drink more.
And holidays like Id al-Fitr, at the end of Ramadan, are bonanzas. ''I get luckier during Id, when people throw out more garbage,'' he said.
For now, garbage is plentiful, because sanitation crews cannot keep up. But there are signs of change. On a recent morning, Haider Saad, 23, found his usual hunting ground dried up. ''The garbage truck collected the garbage at midnight instead of early morning,'' he said, gazing with despair at a clean street.
Baghdad's mayor, Saber al-Essawy, said the city planned to move all pickups to overnight hours, and was building two recycling plants. ''In the future, those people will have to find jobs,'' he said. ''That's what we want, because they are a bad mark on our society.''
Mr. Saad did not take this challenge lightly.
''We look at the garbage truck as our first enemy,'' he said.
Then he moved on. For the collectors, there is no rest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Children made their way last month through Tin City, known for garbage collectors. An underground economy built on trash sustains neighborhoods in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); DISPLACED PERSONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



320 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: More Workers Complain of Bias on the Job, a Trend Linked to Widespread Layoffs

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
In a tough job market, more and more workers are accusing their employers of discrimination, a report from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said on Tuesday.
Accusations of workplace discrimination -- which workers file with the commission when they think they have been unfairly treated based on their race, sex or other so-called protected categories -- soared to 99,922 in the year ended Sept. 30, from 93,277 in the previous year. That was an increase of 7.2 percent, and the highest level of new discrimination cases ever recorded.
''Discrimination continues to be a substantial problem for too many job seekers and workers, and we must continue to build our capacity to enforce the laws that ensure that workplaces are free of unlawful bias,'' the commission's chairwoman, Jacqueline A. Berrien, said in a statement. 
The largest increase was from people who said they had been discriminated against because of a disability, an increase that may be linked to recent changes in the legal definition of disability to make it more expansive. The Obama administration's growing reputation of greater interest in discrimination cases than its predecessor may also have increased filings.
But experts say the chief reason for the increase in accusations of prejudice is most likely tied to the broad layoffs of the last few years.
''The uptick in E.E.O.C. complaints is directly correlated to the downtick in employment,'' said Michael J. Zimmer, a professor of employment law at Loyola University in Chicago. ''The people who think they're discriminated against when they're not terminated really think twice about whether they should file a charge or not because of the hassle and possibility of retaliation. But once they're terminated, then for most of the private sector employees in this country who are at-will employees, the only way they can challenge their dismissal is by bringing a discrimination claim of some sort.''
A similar rise occurred in the aftermath of the 2001 recession. And then, as now, the number of complaints that accused an employer of an improper firing rose. Meanwhile, the number of sexual harassment cases has fallen since the recent recession began, perhaps because workers could be reluctant to rock the boat because they know that finding a replacement job is so difficult.
Employers, on the other hand, contend that many of the discrimination cases filed with the commission are spurious attempts by workers with no job opportunities who have not experienced discrimination. They point to the fact that the number of enforcement suits that were eventually filed by the commission and resolved in the federal courts declined last year, to 271 from 314.
''The majority of the time, the E.E.O.C. is still finding no reasonable cause for the charges being filed,'' said Michael S. Burkhardt, an employment partner in the Philadelphia office of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius who represents employers in discrimination class-action suits. ''In some cases, people are just upset that they were terminated, and they happen to be in a protected category. Even if that has nothing to do with why they were terminated, they still file a charge.''
He added that employers have had to become increasingly careful about how they structure layoffs when they reduce their work forces, as many have done since the financial crisis began several years ago.
''I think what happens is that there is a lot of increased anxiety and a sense of insecurity in the workplace that comes from a bad economy, and the potential layoffs that might take place. In some cases people might file a discrimination charge if they think they're about to be laid off,'' he said, because workers who have filed discrimination charges with the E.E.O.C. are legally protected from retaliation by their employers and can therefore be harder to dismiss.
Workers themselves argue that a poor job market has brought out the often hidden prejudicial side of employers who can afford to be especially picky in selecting employees. Women believe they are being passed over in favor of men, blacks believe whites and Hispanics are taking their jobs, and older workers say fresher faces are having better luck in the job market at the expense of their elders.
''I think there's age discrimination from these companies because they don't want an old body and old face fronting for them,'' said Terry K. Nance, 76, of Charlottesville, Va., who has been unable to find retail work for the last year and a half. ''No, they'd never say it, but you can tell it's the case. When I go back in and I shop these same places I've applied to and never heard back from, I see younger faces in there all the time. It's a revolving door of young people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); AT WILL EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



321 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Where All Days Are Snow Days

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
MINTURN, Colo. -- Off a remote road, the school in this tiny mountain town looks like any other small-town public school. Inside, high school and middle school students pass rows of lockers in the hallways, study in classrooms and conduct experiments in science laboratories.
But at this public school, one student was a Winter Olympian last February, and two others are on the United States ski team. Several were Junior Olympic champions, and a few earned titles at junior world snow sport championships. Many have relocated from all over Colorado to attend the school, and others arrived from New Jersey, Michigan and Virginia.
They have come here to the Vail Ski and Snowboard Academy because it is considered to be the only public winter sports school in the United States.
The academy, in existence since 2007, replicates the European sport-specific school model that has for decades produced numerous Olympic ski champions. The tax-financed Vail academy is required to meet state academic guidelines, but in the winter normal school schedules are turned upside-down -- on-snow training all morning, then classes from 1 to 5 p.m. 
Some students are not in the school at all for weeks because they travel the world to compete. Academic workloads are more rigorous in the fall and spring to keep the class work lighter in winter.
''In the old public school system, these kids missed 30 or 40 days of school to pursue their winter sport,'' said Geoff Grimmer, the academic director at the academy, which has 90 students in grades 6 to 12. ''We had one of the highest absence rates in the nation. So the kids were forced to either compromise their academic growth or surrender their athletic dreams. Now at our school, they do neither, and that's a victory for public education.''
Michael Gass, the Eagle County school district's executive director of student services, called the academy an example of ''No child left behind on the slopes.''
The district's partner in the venture is the nonprofit Ski and Snowboard Club Vail, which provides the coaching for the athletes for an annual fee -- paid by the students -- of about $7,500. But if students live in the local school district from August to June, there is no academy tuition, which can save ski racers and snowboarders nearly half the cost to attend a private ski academy, or as much as $25,000 a year. Although, private ski academies do offer financial aid to minimize expenses.
The Vail academy, which has an application process to weigh academic qualifications, accepts students who want to participate in one of five sports: Alpine skiing (the significant majority), snowboarding, freestyle skiing, free-riding and Nordic sports.
''I thank my mom every day for moving to Vail,'' said Skylar Chaney, 13, an eighth grader whose family of six sold their Virginia house last year. ''I liked my old school, but my teachers didn't really understand all the missed school days to race in Maine or wherever. I don't have to explain anything here; instead they make sure I've learned everything, or have everything I need to learn, before I leave.''
In the past, top snow sports athletes either attended one of about 20 private ski academies, where academic schedules are customized much as they are at the Vail academy, or the athletes enrolled in public schools and tried to juggle studies and sports.
Shannon Moller, whose son, Grifen, is a seventh grader in the academy's free-ride program, tried home schooling.
''But that's not necessarily the answer,'' said Moller, who moved to Eagle County from Michigan and helps her husband, Mike, run an electrical contracting business. ''And we wouldn't have been able to afford the private East Coast academies. The public school academy was meant for people like us.''
To Aldo Radamus, executive director of Ski and Snowboard Club Vail, offering elite snow sports training to a wider socio-economic group was part of the reason he met with Eagle County school leaders in 2004.
''Vail has an image as a rich town,'' he said. ''But a high percentage of the year-round residents are in the service industry. We wanted their kids to pursue their sports passions, too.''
In two years of meetings, Radamus, a former United States ski team coach, helped devise a schedule that included conditioning in the spring and fall and a winter schedule that had the athletes training on Vail Mountain from 7:30 a.m. to noon Tuesday to Friday. They would attend class afterward. Nearly all of the students train all day Saturday and Sunday.
It helped that at about the same time Radamus and executives for Vail's parent company, Vail Resorts, were negotiating to create a state-of-the-art competition arena behind the club's headquarters at the east end of the Vail Mountain trail system. The club raised $3 million toward the arena and Vail Resorts provided its snowmaking and grooming expertise. Now, more than ever, academy students had the room to train in every discipline, including moguls and aerials.
Recent advances in quality, affordable educational technologies made the academy more viable as well. Online instruction tools like Blackboard and other programs make it easier for traveling students and teachers to communicate as if they were in the same classroom. Each academy student has a laptop, the classrooms are equipped with exceptionally fast wireless networks and computers, and Grimmer has made sure every faculty member has an iPad.
''Much of what we do wouldn't have been possible 15 years ago,'' Grimmer said.
Although the academy also employs a college counselor and a sports psychologist, district officials said the school was not a tax burden because the state reimburses the district on a per-student basis. The academy, they said, has helped keep more students enrolled in the district, so existing facilities are more fully used.
The school has a few inflexible academic requirements. Grades are e-mailed to students and parents weekly, and if a student falls below a 70 average in any subject for two successive weeks, the student spends the next week in study hall instead of training.
Sports specialty schools are not new to the United States, especially in golf and tennis. Those schools have many success stories but in recent years have often been criticized for professionalizing childhood and emphasizing sports over education.
Vail academy officials have been asked if their model is not more of the same.
''My answer is that if anything, we are letting their value and perception of themselves be defined more broadly than just athletics,'' Grimmer said. ''The structure is there to make sure they feel part of an educational community as well.''
Several students agreed.
''We do some unusual things to make time for our sport, but the curriculum is still very demanding and the teachers hold us to it,'' said Anne Strong, a senior. ''We take a bunch of Advanced Placement courses and afterward we have to take the same standardized A.P. exams as the kids in regular high schools.''
Strong, who will attend Dartmouth next fall, and her twin, Liz, who is going to Harvard, are among about 18 students expected to graduate in the spring. Faye Gulini, who finished 12th in the Vancouver Olympics in snowboard cross, is also part of that class. Nearly every graduate attends a four-year college, and nearly all compete intercollegiately.
The academy's graduation rate in the first three years has been 89 percent, which is several percentage points above the districtwide average. In 2009, the average PSAT score for students was 51 in both critical reading and math. The national PSAT averages for 11th graders was 47 in critical reading and 48 in math.
Radamus is convinced that the Vail model will be copied by school districts elsewhere. He mentioned Aspen, Colo.; Lake Tahoe, Calif.; Stowe, Vt.; Sun Valley, Idaho; and Park City, Utah, as possible sites for a public winter sports academy.
Meanwhile, on a Monday late last year, each boy inside the Vail academy building wore a tie; the girls were also dressed a little more formally. It's a tradition -- no training on Monday, so everyone dresses up.
''I like the tie days,'' Grifen Moller said. ''It makes you feel a little different, but at the same time it makes all of us feel like we're doing something special together. Because we are.''
Online Correction: January 11, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption with an earlier version of this article misidentified the skiing discipline Zeke Pierce was practicing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victor Gilmeneau preparing to load his ski gear onto a bus heading to the Vail Ski and Snowboard Academy, a public school with instruction similar to private ski academies. Heidi Kloser, top, in the midst of a freestyle run.
Students train year-round using a gym, above, named the Center of Awesomeness. They also can review skiing tapes of the day while awaiting the school bus. (B11)
 Zeke Pierce, a student at the academy who has competed in Junior Olympics races, working on his technique at Golden Peak. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH MAHONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SPORTS (90%); SKIING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SNOWBOARDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ATHLETES (76%); WINTER OLYMPICS (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); RELOCATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



322 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: Tinkering With Success

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
SEBASTOPOL, Calif.
OUT here in Sonoma County south of the Russian River, where a rolling ocean of vineyards surrounds a few surviving Gravenstein apple orchards, the growing season is typically long and warm. Grapes customarily bask in the ripening sun until they practically burst with sweetness. The challenge is to prevent the grapes from ripening too much.
Last year was different. Until the heat spiked at the last minute, 2010 had been one of the coolest seasons on record. Nobody knew if the grapes would mature enough. That meant trouble. Or maybe a lucky break.
''Everybody was worried about getting things ripe,'' said Jason Kesner, the assistant winemaker at Kistler Vineyards. ''We had the acid, we had the color, we had the flavor, but we didn't have the typical California sugar to match up with it. We had the tremendous opportunity to make wines at lower alcohol levels. It was the holy grail we'd all been asking for.'' 
Really? For more than 30 years, restraint was not a quality remotely associated with Kistler. In the 1980s and '90s, as Americans developed a ravenous thirst for chardonnay, Kistler set a standard of quality with its powerful, oaky, voluptuous wines. Using grapes from small lots in prime vineyards in Sonoma and the Carneros, it was among a handful of California wineries that pioneered the use of Burgundian techniques, like fermenting in small oak barrels.
American critics raved about the wines, placing them at the pinnacle of California chardonnay. More quietly, Kistler was also lauded for its pinot noirs.
As Kistler's lush, exuberant style was widely emulated, it became one of the first modern California cult wineries, its wines available only in restaurants or to long-term customers. It was a model for today's mailing-list avatars of the full-blown California chardonnay style, like Aubert and Peter Michael. Indeed, some producers began making even more powerful wines so overflowing with flavor they made Kistler's look almost sedate.
But with little fanfare, the Kistler style has changed in the last few years. Following the evolving tastes of Steve Kistler, one of its proprietors, rather than the pressure of economic necessity, Kistler has stepped back, striving for finesse and energy rather than power.
Kistler's departure from its extraordinarily successful style is a shock, and perhaps even risky business. And yet the California wine industry has seen a stylistic evolution in the last decade, especially with chardonnays. More and more wines seek elegance and vivacity rather than sumptuous force.
Partly, this is a retreat from the overuse of oak, with many more producers marketing their wines as ''unoaked'' or ''steel fermented.'' Similarly, more producers now tout their chardonnays as ''Chablis-like,'' evoking the leaner, more minerally style of that region rather than the richer, more opulent chardonnays of the Cote de Beaune, the home of Meursault and Montrachet.
Even many chardonnay producers who continue to pursue the Cote de Beaune ideal, like Littorai, Peay, Rivers-Marie and Failla, are aiming more for grace than for power. As a result, the spectrum of California styles seems wider and less monochromatic today, with room for chardonnays in the leanest to the most luxuriant styles. Kistler's wines are still ample -- certainly not on the Chablis end of the spectrum -- but they now seem fresher, more focused and finely etched.
''Was there a time when we erred on the side of uniformity, of over-fine tuning, of picking later, only when every last cluster was ripe?'' asked Mr. Kistler, who owns the company with his business partner, Mark Bixler. ''Maybe so, but we've evolved, as I think others have, too.''
While some customers say they miss the wines that made Kistler famous, he says the evolution has mostly been well received.
''We don't worry if the pinot noir isn't dark enough,'' he said. ''Some people do ask us to return to the overblown, blowzy style of chardonnay, but no.''
Indeed, the Kistler business has been affected more by the economy than by the stylistic change, but even the economy hasn't put a serious crimp into sales. The entire production, about 20,000 cases of chardonnay and 5,000 cases of pinot noir, used to be available only in restaurants or by the mailing list, where the single-vineyard chardonnays sell for around $75 and the pinot noirs range from $75 to $90. But now you can find the Kistler Noisetiers chardonnay, the lowest echelon, a blend of several vineyards but representative of the style, for around $60 in retail shops.
Mr. Kistler, 62, attributes the change inside the bottle to his own developing preferences. ''My tastes now run toward more structured, lively wines that go with food, that have power and finesse at the same time,'' he said as we spoke outside his winery, looking out over the adjacent Vine Hill Vineyard, the source of some of his best chardonnays. Even there, change is visible. He and Mr. Kesner are replanting part of the vineyard, reorienting and tweaking the vines so the grapes can be picked earlier, when, as Mr. Kesner puts it, ''the fruit is at a peak level of energy.''
Even before the changes, Kistler chardonnays were pure and deep. Yet I'd had mixed experiences with them. Some I had found to be wonderfully ripe and laden with mineral flavors, rich yet tense. Others seemed flaccid, hot and oaky, without much staying power. The pinot noirs were commanding expressions of fruit, but somewhat chunky rather than elegant.
The move to harvest earlier began, almost serendipitously, with the 2006 vintage, when Mr. Kistler had to pick certain lots of chardonnay grapes earlier than usual to beat bad weather. In the resulting wines, which were not released until 2008, he found wonderful and surprising characteristics.
''That was a definite eye-opener,'' Mr. Kesner said.
It was a decisive element in a continuing effort, particularly with the pinot noirs, to make wines that were intense but not heavy, fresh rather than brawny. In their quest, they've committed themselves to indigenous rather than cultured yeasts, to using fewer new barrels and, over all, to letting go of overt control in the vineyard and cellar. Describing their approach, Mr. Kesner quoted the jazz great Charlie Parker:
''Don't play the saxophone, let the saxophone play you,'' he said.
Mr. Kistler said, simply, ''We've really worked hard on them the last 10 years, and we're making much better wines.''
Tasting the wines, I can't help but agree with Mr. Kistler. The 2008 McCrea Vineyard chardonnay from Sonoma Mountain is lovely, light-bodied and energetic, with creamy mineral flavors. The '08 Vine Hill is more austere and tightly coiled than the McCrea, while the '08 Hudson is richer in texture, with an almost briny flavor, and the '08 Stone Flat is tangy, with a waxy, lanolin texture and beautiful mineral flavors.
What has not changed at Kistler is an underlying philosophy of meticulous attention to detail with an aim to express subtle differences in terroir. As it always has, Kistler tries to reduce variables so that vineyard characteristics will stand out. It uses only one clone of chardonnay, for example, a California heritage selection rather than something developed in France to meet Burgundian needs. That clone, in turn, mutates over time within each vineyard, becoming part of the terroir.
''We were unusual 30 years ago in that we planted vineyards and chose techniques to make wines of a certain style,'' Mr. Kistler said. ''We never were interested in fruit-driven chardonnays. Our goal was wonderful mineral wines with a soil-driven character.''
For the pinot noirs, Kistler has narrowed its focus to western Sonoma County and coastal sites east of Bodega Bay. The '08 Kistler Vineyard pinot noir, from a few miles south of the Vine Hill Vineyard, is surprisingly delicate and harmonious, with lingering floral, fruit and mineral flavors. The '08 Cuvee Natalie from the nearby Silver Belt Vineyard is more intense, not quite as well-knit, perhaps still a work in progress. By contrast, a barrel sample of a 2009 pinot noir from one of the coastal vineyards stands out for its freshness and energy.
''That's what makes us as excited as we were 30 years ago,'' Mr. Kistler said.
Changes have come not only to the wines, but also to the business. Since its founding in 1978, Kistler has largely been a two-man operation. Mr. Kistler oversaw vineyard and winemaking operations, while Mr. Bixler took charge of laboratory work and the business. In an era of uninhibited marketing in which winemakers have been propelled to superstar status, Mr. Kistler has shunned publicity and overt salesmanship.
''We've always been more comfortable letting the wines speak for themselves,'' said Mr. Kistler, a lean, private man with a quiet, almost hesitant manner.
In 2008, though, he expanded the roster, adding Mr. Kesner, who, as manager of Hudson Vineyards in Carneros, a prime source for Kistler chardonnays, had established a comfortable working relationship with Mr. Kistler.
''For all those years we got by without assistance,'' Mr. Kistler said. ''But in order to take everything to the next level, there was only so much I could do.''
The next level meant more than refining the vineyard and cellar work. It also meant thinking of the future. As with many family-run operations, generational succession is an issue. Just a few years ago, Warren Winiarski sold Stag's Leap Wine Cellars, the historic Napa estate, after it became clear that his daughter was not committed to carrying it on. Mr. Kistler has two daughters, but neither so far has become involved in the wine business. Instead of selling, Mr. Kistler hired Mr. Kesner, 42, who says he views his job as an Old World apprenticeship.
Mr. Kesner says he shares Mr. Kistler's inclination for privacy. But he also said he believes Mr. Kistler deserves more recognition, both for his wines and his dedicated approach, and prodded him to speak publicly.
''I feel very much like Charlie Bucket, and I've found the golden ticket,'' Mr. Kesner said. ''I want everyone to know how wondrous it is inside the chocolate factory.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EVOLUTION: Kistler's Sonoma vineyards now produce wines of finesse rather than power.(D1)
 APPRENTICESHIP: Steve Kistler (left) and his assistant, Jason Kesner, at Kistler Vineyards in Sebastopol, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



323 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: DEAL PROFESSOR; Facebook Stock Sale Renews Debate Over I.P.O. Regulation

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer at Shearman & Sterling, is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
Harry Campbell
Facebook's sale of private shares to Goldman Sachs's private clients is a Rorschach test.
Commentators who think that there is too much regulation have asserted, not surprisingly, that Sarbanes-Oxley and increased United States regulation of public companies deterred Facebook from going ahead with an initial public offering this year.
The truth is much more complex. 
Since Sarbanes-Oxley was enacted in 2002, Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission have actually liberalized the regulatory regime for companies when they go public, in some cases arguably too far.
But the outcry in the wake of Sarbanes-Oxley was that overregulation had shut down the I.P.O. market. The most prominent evidence cited was that foreign companies were no longer listing in the United States. According to Dealogic, three foreign companies listed on an American stock exchange in 2003 compared with 75 in 2000, the height of the Internet bubble.
Sarbanes-Oxley probably did deter foreign companies from listing in the United States, if not for the actual regulation than for bad public relations. But the bad economy at the time was most likely the primary reason for the dearth of I.P.O's.
Immense pressure was on the S.E.C. to lure back foreign offerings by liberalizing the regulatory regime applicable to domestic and foreign companies alike.
The commission repeatedly acted to reduce the regulatory requirements on foreign companies. The S.E.C. revised its accounting rules to permit use of international accounting standards by foreign issuers and to freely permit these companies to leave the American markets if they thought United States regulation was too burdensome.
The S.E.C. also responded more broadly to reduce regulation, particularly that imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley, on all public companies. Among other actions, the commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board made compliance significantly easier with respect to Section 404, the requirement that auditors must certify the validity of a company's internal controls.
Section 404 is often cited as Sarbanes-Oxley's most significant burden. And in the Dodd-Frank act, Congress eliminated the requirement to comply with Section 404 for companies with a market value of less than $75 million and directed the S.E.C. to look at removing the restriction for companies with a market capitalization of up to $250 million.
The Supreme Court also provided help, by making it significantly harder to sue public companies for securities fraud in several cases.
The net result is that regulation for all public companies in the United States is in some cases lighter than before Sarbanes-Oxley.
And despite the rhetoric, the evidence on which this liberalization was based was quite mixed.
In one study, Robert Bartlett, a Berkeley law professor, found that the overwhelming majority of companies bought by private equity firms still voluntarily complied with the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley in order to issue debt to finance these acquisitions. In other words, investors liked the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, and companies willingly complied when they did not need to.
Others argued that the decline of the I.P.O. market was largely unrelated to Sarbanes-Oxley. Grant Thornton, an accounting and consulting firm, has ably detailed in a report why there was a significant drop in small-issuer I.P.O.'s starting in 1997.
Grant Thornton asserts that the reason is actually a result of changes in market structure. Decimalization - pricing stocks in cents rather than fractions - took profits out of trading that had previously given incentive to brokers to list small companies. New order-handling rules and the rise of online brokers similarly reduced incentives.
The result is that in 1996, the number of I.P.O.'s raising less than $25 million was 309, which declined to nine by 2001, a year before Sarbanes-Oxley, and was only 13 in 2010, according to Dealogic.
The flight of foreign companies could be attributed in large part to the development of mature markets elsewhere. Last year, according to Dealogic, Asia will for the first time lead the I.P.O. market with $147 billion worth of issuances, compared with $44.4 billion for the United States and $39.1 billion for all of Europe.
This is natural. Companies almost overwhelmingly list in their home markets, and Asia is the world's growth market. The largest I.P.O. of last year, Agricultural Bank of China, would probably not list in the United States even if there were zero regulation.
In this light, the United States is still performing quite well. It attracted the most foreign listings last year - Dealogic records 52 foreign companies, or about 15 percent of the American I.P.O. market, compared with four that listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. These companies are exactly what you would expect - growth companies from Asia seeking an American premium. Thirty-nine Chinese companies listed in the United States last year, compared with six in Europe.
Many scholars attribute the success of the markets in the United States to their regulation, which provides greater investor confidence. And there is evidence that the deregulation of the I.P.O. market may have gone too far, particularly for foreign companies. There is a growing outcry that many Chinese companies listed in the United States are underregulated and not ready for the American markets.
This does not mean that the United States is a regulatory nirvana. Regulation needs to be fine-tuned and market structure enhanced to allow for smaller I.P.O.'s. Congress and the S.E.C. do not help themselves by imposing copious disclosure and other requirements that provide little benefit.
In the case of Facebook, the company is already probably complying with the most significant securities disclosure requirements. Facebook has also committed to begin following the S.E.C. reporting requirements for public companies by April 2012, a signal that an I.P.O. of the company will occur around that time.
There are reasons Facebook is not planning an I.P.O. right now, but it most likely is not regulation. Instead, it probably has more to do with the nature of today's markets.
It is not easy to be a public company, particularly if you are a prominent one like Facebook. This is a world of analysts and media coverage and the day-to-day evaluation that comes with a stock price. These reasons, which are not going away under any regulatory scheme, are most likely the ones keeping Facebook private for another 15 months or so.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



324 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Cabs Seem Scarce Around 5 P.M.? New Data Confirms It

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Ever feel as if you can't get a cab around 5 o'clock? Now there's scientific proof that you're right.
There is new data to confirm what generations of New Yorkers have long known in their bones: just as the afternoon rush is about to begin, the taxicabs disappear by the hundreds.
From 4 to 5 p.m., the traditional hour for cabs to change shifts, the number of active taxicabs on the streets falls by nearly 20 percent compared with an hour before, according to a city review of GPS records taken from thousands of cab trips over the past year. 
In fact, the number of cabs that pick up at least two fares during that taxicab witching hour is the lowest of any hour between 7 a.m. and midnight, the data show. This vanishing trend turned up in the data regardless of time of year or day of the week.
The hour from 4 to 5 p.m. has long been considered a low tide of taxi service, the maddening moment when, in apparent violation of the laws of supply and demand, entire fleets of empty yellow cabs flip on their off-duty lights and proceed past the outstretched hands of office workers seeking a way home.
But despite decades of complaining from New Yorkers, taxi officials have never been able to gauge the true extent of the shift changeover's effect on service, until now.
''It's not just urban legend,'' said David S. Yassky, the chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, who asked his agency to investigate the phenomenon. ''It's a real dip.''
The Bloomberg administration, which prides itself on data-driven policy, is still grappling with how to handle the discovery. Mr. Yassky said that, so far, he had no plans to ask for any changes to the industry's schedule, although his team is still considering its options.
Mr. Yassky said the city ''should be circumspect about substituting its judgment for the judgment of business people.'' But he acknowledged that any attempt at regulation would have to take into account the forces that have kept the practice in place for years.
The explanation for the 5 p.m. dip is steeped in the history and economics of the taxi industry. Many taxicabs are used by two drivers a day, each working a 12-hour shift. To ensure that each leg is equally attractive, taxi owners schedule the shift change in the middle of the afternoon, so each shift gets a rush hour.
But the switch cannot happen too early, either: a 2 p.m. changeover, for instance, would require a day driver to start his 12-hour shifts in the wee hours of the morning. And cabbies say the midafternoon offers brisk business not evident 12 hours later, when fares mainly consist of late-night revelers.
Hence the 5 p.m. compromise. When the changeover became standard, its timing did not pose a big problem for passengers. Many taxi garages were situated on the Far West Side of Manhattan, requiring cabs to make only a short trip to 11th Avenue before heading back to Midtown with a fresh driver.
But in the 1980s, as commercial rents rose, taxi fleets began migrating across the East River, particularly to Long Island City, Queens. The 5 p.m. shift change now included a journey over the often-packed Queensboro Bridge, not to mention the return slog to the city. Drivers started going off duty between 4 and 4:30 p.m., to ensure that they had enough time to make it to the garage; even today, tardy cabbies can be hit with a $30 fine.
If the system changed, ''I'd be very upset,'' Youssef Kamel, 34, a day driver from Brooklyn, said the other day. Mr. Kamel was at the BP station on Houston Street, which is among several places that serve as transfer points for driver-owned taxicabs, unaffiliated with a fleet. The gas station gets so busy after 4 p.m. on weekdays, with dozens of cabs gassing up and changing drivers, that managers wave off private automobiles, asking them to return after 5.
The rising popularity of the driver-owned model means that more cabbies today coordinate a handoff in Manhattan, which may be lessening the impact of the 5 o'clock dip.
''There are more drivers changing shifts in Manhattan today than ever before,'' said David Pollack, the publisher of Taxi Insider, a monthly industry publication.
Some of the 5 p.m. frustration, Mr. Pollack added, could be about perception. ''It's like Fred Flintstone at 5 o'clock: the whistle blows and everybody wants a cab,'' he said.
There is precedent for the city to regulate livery drivers so that they better meet customer demand.
A publication from 1839, ''By-laws and Ordinances of the Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the City of New York,'' decrees that the mayor can make rules ''respecting the standing of horse coaches and carriages at or near the theaters and other places of amusement at night, and at and near steamboats and other vessels at all times, and at and upon the stands designated and specified for such coaches, as may be necessary to preserve order and decorum.''
Indeed, the issue has not gone ignored by the taxi lords. A 1987 dictate by the City Council ordered the taxi commission to investigate the feasibility of staggering shift changes throughout the afternoon, in an attempt to free up more cabs during rush hour. That report has since been lost to history, and the practice continued unabated.
In 2004, the city took a more aggressive approach, implementing a $1 surcharge on fares between 4 and 8 p.m. on weekdays in an explicit attempt to encourage more drivers to work in the afternoon rush. ''We believe that the 20 percent dip would be even worse if it weren't for the surcharge,'' Mr. Yassky said.
Still, Mr. Yassky acknowledged that the afternoon taxi drought remained ''one of the two or three things that people routinely bring up to me.'' One recent complainant was former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who mailed a letter to Mr. Yassky a few days before Christmas, asking about ''a dearth of available cabs in the late afternoon.''
''One of my law partners remarked on the fact that at 4 o'clock, you can't get a cab,'' Mr. Koch said in an interview last week. ''Wouldn't it make sense to have a substantial number of cabs on duty at all times?''
''In government,'' Mr. Koch added, ''nothing goes away. This is a perennial.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Off-duty taxis heading toward Queens on the Queensboro Bridge for a shift change one day last week. Many cabs are driven in 12-hour shifts, with the drivers changing at 5 p.m. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) GRAPHICS: The 4 O'Clock Blip: The number of empty taxicabs varies in the mornings and evenings based on demand, but it takes a remarkably consistent jump every day around 4 p.m. That's the time many cabs change shifts, heading home to garages that are mostly in Queens, and returning with a new driver for the evening. (Source: Taxi and Limousine Commission) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); TRENDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



325 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Wall Collapse Strikes Family of Brothers

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Liz Robbins contributed reporting.

 BODY:
They lived together, rode their bicycles to work together and -- for at least a week -- toiled together at a construction site on Queens Boulevard.
Marcelo and Facundo Sanchez unloaded building materials from delivery trucks. Hedilberto Sanchez mixed the cement. Miguel Sanchez laid the bricks.
Four brothers, one dream: to find some measure of stability in a home far from their homeland. 
For Hedilberto, the journey is over. He died on Monday, crushed by scaffolding and cinder blocks after an 18-foot wall collapsed at the site, in Elmhurst. He was 26 -- a married father of two, a third child on the way.
Miguel and two other workers were injured in the collapse, which is under investigation.
The story of the Sanchez brothers' life in New York City began 12 years ago, when Facundo Sanchez, the eldest of eight siblings, left the impoverished village of Tepexco, in central Mexico, the plot of land from which the family subsisted and the house where they all lived. Hedilberto and Marcelo came, together, a year later, and then came Miguel, who brought along Cornelio, the youngest of them.
The brothers sneaked across the border into California and, by bus or airplane, reunited in Queens, where they went on to live extraordinarily ordinary lives. Illegal immigrants, the brothers never returned to Mexico.
They worked all day, from Monday until Saturday at about noon. On Saturday evenings, they attended the Spanish Mass at Our Lady of Sorrows Church on 37th Avenue, five blocks from the apartment they had shared in Corona for several years, Cornelio Sanchez said. On Sundays, during warmer months, they played soccer in a Peruvian league at Flushing Meadows Corona Park.
They shopped at a grocery store around the corner from where they lived, and washed their clothes in the laundromat across the street.
''When one of the brothers finds work, he tries to get work for the others,'' Cornelio, 20, said in an interview in Spanish on Tuesday. ''When one of the brothers is unemployed, he can count on the other brothers for help.''
Hedilberto, Miguel and Facundo Sanchez each occupied a bedroom in their three-bedroom apartment, a duplex in an unmarked building between a vacant lot and a bar named Palomas. They shared the space with their wives and children; six children were living there, including Hedilberto's sons, Edison, 3, and Luis, 6.
Cornelio and Marcelo, who are single, slept downstairs, by the kitchen.
On Tuesday, Hedilberto's boys thumbed through an album, looking at random family pictures -- of Luis's first birthday; of their mother, Mirella Alvarado, posing in a pretty dress; of their father standing before the Unisphere at Flushing Meadows Park, his arms folded over his chest.
''Donde esta mi papa?'' Edison asked in Spanish. Where is my father?
No one answered. ''He doesn't understand what happened,'' Cornelio Sanchez said.
The Queens district attorney's office is investigating the collapse, which happened about 9:30 a.m. on Monday in a rectangular lot on Queens Boulevard west of Grand Avenue. A developer, Thomas J. Huang, planned to build a five-story building there. On Monday, the city issued a stop-work order at the site. On Tuesday, a police van was parked outside.
Mr. Huang and his wife were barred from selling condos and co-ops in New York State in 1999, after failing to pay their share of operating expenses for units he owned or rented in two buildings in Flushing. That same year, he was convicted of trying to hide an oil spill he caused in the basement of a historic theater he owned in Queens, according to a news release from the office of Eliot Spitzer when he was attorney general.
Hedilberto and Miguel Sanchez, as well as the other injured men, worked for a subcontractor. Miguel Sanchez and one other worker were released from Elmhurst Hospital Center on Tuesday, while the third worker remained hospitalized in stable condition, a spokeswoman said.
Ms. Alvarado, who is due to give birth to a baby girl in March, spent all morning at the hospital, signing off on the release of her husband's body for an autopsy. Cornelio Sanchez said that he had already called the Mexican Consulate to see about sending his brother's body home.
A note taped to a calendar in the kitchen of the Sanchez brothers' apartment offered a reminder of happy days. In Hedilberto's handwriting, it listed the food and beverages that the brothers were to bring on Feb. 2, when the family was to reunite to celebrate the Catholic feast known as Presentation of the Lord, 40 days after the birth of Jesus Christ.
Cornelio was to bring plates. (''I don't cook,'' he said.) Marcelo was to bring tamales. Hedilberto was to bring pozole, a hominy stew.
His sister-in-law Enriqueta Munoz, who is married to Conrrado Sanchez, the last of the brothers to leave Mexico for New York, said that Hedilberto Sanchez was a fan of bachatas, bolero-like ballads of romantic despair, which he liked to listen to while he cooked.
Once he was done writing the list, on the occasion of another family reunion, on Three Kings Day, Jan. 6, Ms. Munoz said that ''he looked around the room and told all of us to get ready because, next time we got together, he was going to be singing and dancing all day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cornelio Sanchez, 20, mourned the death of his brother Hedilberto, 26, a father of two who was killed on Monday. Five Sanchez brothers lived in the same apartment in Queens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); SOCCER (64%); INTERVIEWS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



326 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
WARNING OF MISSILE THREAT
Posed by North Korea
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates warned that North Korea was within five years of being able to strike the continental United States with an intercontinental ballistic missile. He added that North Korea, with its expanding nuclear program, ''is becoming a direct threat to the United States.'' PAGE A8
CLINTON TRAVELS TO YEMEN 
On a delicate diplomatic mission to Yemen, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton sought to broaden a relationship almost wholly defined by American concerns that Yemen is a staging ground for plots against the United States. PAGE A6
National
FOR BOEHNER, RAMPAGE
Imposes Its Own Agenda
Speaker John A. Boehner expected to spend his first celebratory weeks as the new leader of the House showcasing his party's differences with the Democrats. But the shooting rampage in Arizona upended those plans. Now Mr. Boehner is being called on to play a far less partisan role, leading Republicans and Democrats alike through a difficult period. PAGE A15
TEXAS'S BUDGET CRISIS
Riding a wave of populist anger, the Republican Party gained 22 seats in the Texas House of Representatives. They have stormed into Austin vowing to reinvent government and make Texas the model of fiscal austerity. But since most of the budget goes for education and health care, any cuts are going to be painful, analysts say. PAGE A12
New York
IN SPEECH, CHRISTIE CALLS
For Education Overhaul
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey signaled that his second year in office will be as full of conflict and wrenching change as his first, calling for more deep cuts in government spending and public employee benefits, and a broad overhaul of education that drew scorn from Democrats. PAGE A19
Cabs Disappear in Evening Rush A18
Business
SMALL CARMAKERS FIGHT
For Attention at Show
Much of the North American International Auto Show in Detroit has been focused on big companies trying to become even bigger. But at the same time, the small brands seeking rejuvenation under new owners were also trying not to be overlooked -- even when relegated to the sidelines. PAGE B1
RESTARTING OIL IN PIPELINE
Worried about the effect of freezing temperatures, the operator of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System said it planned to temporarily restart the flow of oil through its 800-mile network, even though repairs have not yet been completed on the leak that forced the shutdown of the system on Saturday. PAGE B1
PORTUGAL ESCHEWS BAILOUT
The prime minister of Portugal, Jose Socrates, insisted that his country would not require a bailout like Greece and Ireland despite record borrowing costs and a forecast by the country's central bank that the nation would sink back into recession this year. PAGE B6
Sports
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER
Auburn's Title Will Stick
As players picked confetti from their hair, they ducked questions about whether they were worried about Auburn's national championship holding up under N.C.A.A. scrutiny of quarterback Cam Newton's recruitment. Analysis. PAGE B11
PRODUCTION, NOT PEDIGREE
If the Patriots win the Super Bowl, they will do it with the least-acclaimed skill-position players, based on draft status, of any champion. The Fifth Down. PAGE B11
MATCHING UP BAD CONTRACTS
In their attempts to acquire Carmelo Anthony, the New Jersey Nets have to make the numbers work: N.B.A. trades are not built on an exchange of similar talent, but similar contracts, and expendable players and bad contracts are essential to teams looking to deal. PAGE B11
Arts
AN ELUSIVE ART FORGER,
Giving, Not Stealing
Mark A. Landis has been one of the most prolific forgers American museums have encountered in years, with a penchant for donating small, expertly faked works. Unlike most forgers, he does not seem to be in it for the money, but for a kind of satisfaction at seeing his works accepted as authentic. But his activities have nonetheless cost museums. PAGE C1
THROWING MUD
In ''Public Enemies,'' a book based on correspondence between the French writers Bernard-Henri Levy and Michel Houellebecq, both men delight in being provocative, yet feign shock that anyone has ever been provoked. Review by Dwight Garner. PAGE C1
Dining
A WINEMAKER TINKERS
With Success
In the 1980s and '90s, as Americans developed a ravenous thirst for chardonnay, Kistler set a standard of quality with its powerful, oaky, voluptuous wines. But with little fanfare, the Kistler style has changed in the last few years, striving for finesse and energy rather than power. Eric Asimov, The Pour. PAGE D1
Op-ed
JOANNE B. FREEMAN PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BAILOUTS (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WEATHER (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); ROBERT M GATES (73%); JOSE SOCRATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); YEMEN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



327 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Addresses Terrorism and Politics in Yemen

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- The Obama administration wants to help Yemen do more than hunt down Islamic terrorists, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told this fragile Arab country on Tuesday as she sought to broaden a relationship almost wholly defined by American concerns that Yemen is a staging ground for plots against the United States.
Mrs. Clinton, the first secretary of state to visit Yemen since James A. Baker III in 1990, undertook a delicate balancing act. She gently prodded the country's longtime autocratic president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, to open up his political system while leaving no doubt that he remained a crucial partner in the fight against Islamic extremism. 
''I want to be frank about the fact that there are terrorists operating from Yemeni territory today,'' Mrs. Clinton said to an audience of legislators, businesspeople and students here in the capital. ''Stopping these threats would be a priority for any nation, and it is a priority for us.''
At the same time, Mrs. Clinton said that the United States was ready to help Yemen with problems like its dwindling oil and water supplies. The Yemeni economy, she said, had been sapped by terrorism, which scares away the tourists and investors who could help lift it out of poverty.
Arriving from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, under a cloak of secrecy, Mrs. Clinton spent barely seven hours in this ramshackle, beguiling capital. But she got a vivid impression of America's tangled relationship with Yemen, to which it sent $130 million in nonmilitary aid in 2010, up from $17 million in 2008, an increase that brings it almost in line with 2010's $170 million in military aid.
At a town-hall-style meeting, she spoke to average Yemenis, some of them concerned with efforts by Mr. Saleh, 68, a wily former military officer who has ruled this country for three decades, to eliminate term limits. Critics say it would make him president for life. He has been locked in tense negotiations with opposition parties, which seek a greater role in the Parliament.
At the meeting, Mrs. Clinton was asked by a member of the Yemeni Parliament who leads an anticorruption committee how the United States could tolerate Mr. Saleh's strongman rule, given that it had helped to make Yemen a haven for terrorist groups. Most notorious is Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the group behind the attempted bombing of an American jet on Dec. 25, 2009, and the foiled air cargo bombings this past October.
''We support an inclusive government,'' Mrs. Clinton replied. ''We see that Yemen is going through a transition. And you're right: it could one way or the other. It could go the right way or the wrong way.''
Behind the crenelated walls of the presidential palace, Mrs. Clinton spent nearly three hours with Mr. Saleh. A senior administration official said the two discussed economic and social development, cooperation on counterterrorism, and political tensions. Mrs. Clinton urged him to open a dialogue with the opposition, saying it would make Yemen more stable.
For his part, Mr. Saleh emphasized Yemen's counterterrorism campaign, which makes use of American training, intelligence and, sometimes, firepower, in the form of cruise missiles, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic ground rules. While he declined to detail Mr. Saleh's comments, he said they were ''encouraging.''
Surprisingly, the topic of WikiLeaks did not figure heavily, officials said, even though Mr. Saleh was depicted in the confidential diplomatic cables published by that organization as a manipulative negotiator, alternately welcoming and rebuffing American overtures to help track down Qaeda operatives.
The president stood silently with Mrs. Clinton at the news conference after their meeting. Shortly before, he gave her a silver necklace made by a Yemeni-Jewish craftsman; he placed it around her neck before escorting her from the palace. Mrs. Clinton then set off on an impromptu tour of Sana's walled old city. As her motorcade threaded through serpentine streets, in the shadow of minarets and mud-brick houses, she was cheered by schoolchildren and surveyed by men with decorative daggers in their belts.
The State Department took unusual precautions scheduling Mrs. Clinton's visit, leaving a blank space in her schedule between stops in Dubai and Oman, which borders Yemen. Still, word of her travels was reported by news agencies and blogs in the region, rattling her security staff.
Mrs. Clinton's reception in Sana was generally warm, though at the town-hall-style meeting, she was challenged by a legislator who asked about President Obama's failure to deliver on a pledge to close the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He noted that Yemen had offered to set up rehabilitation centers to accept Yemeni detainees, a parallel to a Saudi program.
''We would certainly be open to something like that in Yemen as well,'' Mrs. Clinton responded. (The administration has failed to come to terms because of financial demands made by Yemen, officials said.)
Mrs. Clinton is not likely to rewrite the American relationship with Yemen. But she was a change of pace from other regular visitors: John O. Brennan, President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, and Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of the military's central command.
In a poignant coda to the day, Mrs. Clinton briefly met a former child bride, Nujood Ali, who as a 10-year-old in 2008 had stood outside a courthouse until a lawyer finally agreed to handle her divorce from her 30-year-old husband. Mrs. Clinton said she was an example for all Yemenis who aspire to a better future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); RELIGION (78%); TERM LIMITS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (63%); TOURISM (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) YEMEN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011



328 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE VANISHING MIND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: China, in a Shift to Acceptance, Takes On Its Alzheimer's Problem

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Chen Xiaoduan contributed research.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- Last year, an expensive, red-brick residential complex opened here, equipped with a hair salon, cinema, toy-cluttered game rooms and a karaoke suite offering the latest in pop music.
The residents are not Chinese yuppies. They are older patients with Alzheimer's disease or dementia in a nursing home that is on the forefront of a new effort by China to deal with its exploding elderly population.
''This is the best place we could imagine,'' says Miao Yuqiang, a 49-year-old Shanghai bus driver who helped his 81-year-old mother enroll here. ''By the time we found this nursing home, we were desperate.''
While many countries are struggling to cope with rapidly aging populations, in China there are forecasts that within three decades there could be nearly 400 million people over the age of 60 and, partly because of the one-child policy, a declining number of working-age people to care for them. 
Recognizing the difficult road ahead, China is beginning to educate the public and the medical community about dementia, and big cities are making plans to build new facilities, like the Shanghai No. 3 Elderly Home.
The shift in attitudes is remarkable. A decade ago, many families were ashamed to admit that their elders had such a disease. And because of a lack of awareness about the disease, many dementia patients were confined to the psychiatric wards of hospitals, which placed steel bars over the windows.
But today, a growing number of families are desperate to place relatives in a nursing home. The problem, health experts say, is that there simply are not enough.
Health experts are predicting severe strains on the state and on working families here. And those strains could be compounded by the lack of awareness about Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, even among medical professionals in China.
''This is an impending health crisis for China, and it may even exceed what's happening in the U.S. because of the one-child policy,'' said Rhoda Au, an associate professor at the Boston University School of Medicine.
In Shanghai, China's wealthiest and most dynamic city, an estimated 120,000 residents have Alzheimer's disease or some form of dementia. But city officials can identify only a handful of nursing homes trained to care for dementia patients.
Worries about the growing ranks of the elderly are amplified by what is being dubbed the 4-2-1 problem. In part because of the one-child policy, soon a single person in China will be expected to help support two parents and four grandparents. And as the elderly live longer, they are more likely to develop dementia, which requires expensive care.
To cope with a severe shortage of nursing homes, Shanghai is proposing what it calls the 90-7-3 plan, which means 90 percent of the elderly will need to be cared for at home, while 7 percent make occasional visits to a community center and 3 percent live in nursing homes.
''We're planning to build at least one nursing home that can care for dementia patients in every district,'' Zhang Fan, deputy director of social welfare at the Shanghai Civil Affairs Bureau, said in a telephone interview. ''Every year, we'll need at least 5,000 additional beds.''
One of the major challenges will be figuring out who will pay for professional care. In the 1990s, China dismantled its old ''iron rice bowl'' system of cradle-to-grave financial support from the state. It was part of a move toward a more market-oriented economy. But it now means the nation's social safety net is weak, and care for the elderly is underfunded.
Boston University is now conducting a study to measure dementia rates in China and to identify the factors that lead to higher risk. The aim is to slow the onset of the disorder and alleviate the heavy health care costs.
There is now pressure for speedier action. Although the Chinese have a tradition of caring for their elders at home, families in big cities complain about a lack of options.
Lu Peiyu has been struggling to find a place for her 63-year-old husband, who received a diagnosis of dementia three years ago. A former accountant, he is sitting at home because no one can be found to treat him.
''We thought about sending him to hospitals, but he ran away twice in two years,'' said the man's son-in-law. ''The problem is there's so far not a single nursing home that offered a suitable place for my father-in-law. Professional hospitals are all filled up, and private nursing homes don't have qualified people.''
Mr. Miao, the Shanghai bus driver, is among those fortunate enough to have found a nursing home that can treat dementia.
His family's ordeal is common here. Two years ago, his elderly mother began showing signs of memory loss after striking her head on the pavement outside her home.
She was hospitalized for a month. When she returned home -- where she lived with her youngest son, Mr. Miao, his wife and their then 20-year-old son -- she began to show signs of severe memory loss.
''She started getting lost on the street,'' said the woman's daughter-in-law, Luo Yuqin. ''She'd even forget to turn off the boiling water on the stove.''
Today, Mr. Miao's mother is at the Shanghai No. 3 Elderly Home and uses a wheelchair. She has lost her ability to speak and is prone to emotional fits, Mr. Miao said.
Mr. Miao visits her twice a week. A few Saturdays ago, he came with snacks and a plastic bag stuffed with hard-boiled eggs.
''Ma, is everything O.K.?'' he said as he fed his mother from a small bottle of milk. Then, Mr. Miao's wife jumped in, saying: ''They really take care of her. We're working people. We both drive a bus long hours. What would we do without this place?''
Dr. Zhang Naizi, president of the Shanghai No. 3 Elderly Home, says the center tries to care for dementia patients with a system of personalized attention that was first developed in Europe. The system includes keeping the patients active with memory games and insisting that the nursing staff constantly make hand contact with the patients, by simply rubbing their arms or hands while speaking to them, hoping to make them feel more secure.
He says the new facility has a multimedia room that can display images of Shanghai streets, and even images that appear to show the neighborhoods of the patients. This is supposed to make them feel at home. Many patients also wear GPS armbands that help the staff monitor their locations.
''I am proud to say we're the first professional center for dementia patients,'' Dr. Zhang said. ''We are the first in the whole country. Ten years ago, dementia patients were sent to psychiatric wards. Things are different now.''
The Vanishing Mind: Articles in this series are examining the worldwide struggle to find answers about Alzheimer's disease.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A recreation room at the Shanghai No. 3 Elderly Home, which cares for people with Alzheimer's disease or dementia.
 Qiu Jinzhen, who is suffering from dementia, at the nursing home in Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); AGING (90%); DEMENTIA (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FAMILY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); POP & ROCK (72%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (72%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CITIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) EAST CHINA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



329 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Tunisia Seethes

 BODY:
For 23 years, President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia has kept a tight clamp on his country's political life, marketing Tunisia as a tourist oasis while dangerous tensions built up beneath the surface. Now deadly riots have erupted over the bleak economic prospects facing the country's young people. Mr. Ben Ali's response has been to clamp down even harder, a course sure to lead to more unrest and bloodshed. 
The protests began last month after an unemployed university graduate set himself on fire after police prevented him from eking out a living selling fruits and vegetables on the street because he lacked a permit. Word of his suicide and subsequent protests spread rapidly by new social media, end-running Mr. Ben Ali's heavy censorship. The government then reportedly hacked into the accounts of Tunisian users of Facebook, Yahoo and Google. The unrest has spread to Tunis, the capital.
With as many as 30 people dead and the country in an uproar, criticism has been pouring in from Washington, the European Union and the United Nations. France, Mr. Ben Ali's most influential ally, has so far remained shamefully silent.
Mr. Ben Ali is now, predictably, blaming unnamed foreign instigators for the riots. And even as he tries to quiet things with promises of new jobs for young Tunisians, he has ordered every school and university in the country to be shut down indefinitely. That will generate more anger and further damage the country's economic future.
Not so long ago, the United States and other Western countries considered Mr. Ben Ali, and other secular tyrants, indispensable allies in the fight against extremists. Washington now appears to recognize that Mr. Ben Ali's repression and deafness to his people's needs only add to the anger and make it more combustible. The challenge is to make Mr. Ben Ali see that truth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIOTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CENSORSHIP (74%); BURN INJURIES (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); FIRES (55%); DEAFNESS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUNISIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



330 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Auto Rebound Pays Dividend To Work Force

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The sweeping overhaul and surprising recovery of the American auto industry is about to pay off handsomely for the blue-collar workers at Ford and General Motors.
The two big Detroit carmakers will announce profit-sharing checks this month for their hourly workers, perhaps the largest in a decade, company officials and industry analysts say.
While the payouts -- expected to top $5,000 at Ford -- underscore the turnaround being celebrated at the Detroit auto show this week, they also foreshadow the enormous challenge awaiting the rebounding companies: how to maintain and build on their financial health while keeping their historically restive work force in line.
All three Detroit car companies are preparing to negotiate new contracts with the United Automobile Workers union this summer. Hovering over the talks will be both the dark days leading up to the federal bailouts of G.M. and Chrysler in 2009, and the renewed sense of optimism permeating the domestic industry. 
With sales rising and promising new vehicles on the way, the automakers are solidly positioned for future profits. But in the past, Detroit has tended to reward workers in good times, only to demand givebacks when fortunes changed.
Labor talks in Detroit are a ritual in which both sides talk tough and ultimately square off on the hard issues of wages and benefits. But there are some early indications that this year might be different, and that practical considerations about the industry's overall competitiveness could replace the combative tone of previous negotiations.
The gap in labor costs between Detroit and the foreign-owned factories in the United States has narrowed considerably. Ford's total labor cost for a worker -- a combination of wages, benefits and pensions -- has been reduced more than 20 percent and is now about $59 an hour, compared to $56 at Toyota, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
And some new ideas about compensation are surfacing. On Tuesday G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, suggested that bonuses for hourly workers should be tied to vehicle quality and overall company performance.
The union's president, Bob King, responded that workers would have an open mind as long as they got a piece of the profits in the new contracts. The current four-year contracts expire in the fall.
''What's going to be important is that members feel they are being respected and that they are getting their fair share of the upside,'' Mr. King said Wednesday. The traditional profit-sharing plan for the union has put little money in workers' pockets in recent years. Ford was the only profitable Detroit carmaker in 2009, and its workers got $450 each as their share of the company's earnings.
But both G.M. and Ford enjoyed strong years in 2010 and are expected to report big profits this month. Industry analysts estimate that Ford's 42,000 union workers will get profit-sharing checks of at least $5,000, based on the company's performance last year in the North American market. That would be the biggest payout since the $8,000 checks that Ford handed out in 2000.
Workers at G.M. are likely to get less than their peers at Ford because the company didn't do quite as well. Also, G.M. has a bigger pool of union workers -- 54,000 -- to compensate. But to rank-and-file employees who lived through the company's financial collapse and subsequent government rescue, the checks will be tangible evidence that G.M. is well back on its feet.
''That would be a great bonus, especially with the overtime pay that we've lost and the years that our wages were frozen,'' said Bill Parker, a G.M. worker at the plant here that builds the Chevrolet Volt.
But in the next breath, Mr. Parker said that regardless of the size of the bonus checks, he felt fortunate to still have a job after G.M. cut more than 40,000 union positions in the last five years. ''I'm happy to be here in this building,'' he said.
Chrysler, which has taken longer to restructure its balance sheet and restock its product lineup, is still losing money and probably will not issue bonuses.
In G.M.'s case, the company has had no profits to speak of in its home market since early in the last decade. But its cost structure has been reduced substantially, first through worker buyouts and plant closings and then by eliminating debt during its bankruptcy. The company, along with Ford and Chrysler, has also reduced its health care obligation by paying into a trust to cover the medical bills of its retired hourly workers.
''In 2007, our hourly labor costs in the U.S. were $16 billion a year, and today it's $5 billion to $6 billion,'' said Steve Girsky, G.M.'s vice chairman and the board member who represents the interests of the U.A.W. retiree trust.
Mr. Girsky conceded that G.M. and the union ''had a history of mistrust'' that had often made previous negotiations hostile. But that has gradually changed since the two sides were forced to frankly confront the company's problems. ''One of the things the bankruptcy did was force transparency on the situation,'' he said. ''You can't hide anything anymore.''
But Mr. King has been very vocal about how the union should get back some of the economic benefits it gave up to bolster the Big Three. He estimates that each union member has sacrificed $7,000 to $30,000 in annual compensation, either in pay or benefits, since 2005.
G.M. isn't interested in turning back the clock, however. Rather than restore some benefits to workers, the company would like to apply its bonus criteria for salaried employees to factory workers as well. Mr. Girsky said G.M. might also offer stock to union members as part of a new bonus plan. ''I get 90 percent of my compensation in stock,'' he said. ''It's open for discussion whether the hourly workers should get stock too.''
In the end, the challenge for both management and labor is to come up with a formula to spread the newfound wealth without breaking the bank.
''The companies don't want to be tied to wage increases and would rather put more money into incentive plans,'' said Ron Harbour, head of the auto division of the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. ''But they have to be careful to save enough cash for a rainy day.''
The coming contract talks will also be influenced by ''no strike'' pledges given by the union to both G.M. and Chrysler, as a condition for the Obama administration's support of government assistance. Ford does not have such a guarantee.
Analysts don't see much chance of a labor strike given that Ford is leading Detroit's comeback in the marketplace. ''I could not imagine the U.A.W. doing anything as stupid as striking after what the industry has gone through,'' said Mr. Harbour. ''That would sink them forever in the public's mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergio Marchionne of Chrysler, left, and Bob King of the U.A.W., center, talked with Representative Steny H. Hoyer on Monday. G.M., which assembles the Chevy Volt in Hamtramck, Mich., is to announce profit-sharing checks this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); BONUS PAY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (59%); DANIEL F AKERSON (57%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



331 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Urges New Start for U.S.-China Relations

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Wednesday suggested a fresh start in relations between the United States and China, aimed at mutually beneficial economic growth.
In a speech at Johns Hopkins University, one week before the state visit of China's president, Hu Jintao, Mr. Geithner said the two countries would benefit by being more than rivals.
''We have a great deal invested in each other's success,'' Mr. Geithner said. 
His main points -- that China should reduce the government's control of the economy, lower barriers to imports from the United States, crack down on the pilfering of American technology and stop holding down the value of its currency -- were nothing new.
But Mr. Geithner, in a tone that alternated between deference and feistiness, outlined two main objectives: expanding opportunities for American companies to sell to the Chinese, and shifting the emphasis in China from exports to domestic consumption and investment as the basis for the nation's growth.
China's management of its exchange rate, and its restrictions on capital flows in and out of China, ''have the effect of keeping the Chinese currency substantially undervalued,'' imposing burdens on other emerging economies that allow their currencies to float, Mr. Geithner said. He added, ''This is not a tenable policy for China or for the world economy.''
Since June, when China pledged to allow its currency, the renminbi, to move more freely, it has appreciated by about 3 percent against the dollar in nominal terms, or an annualized rate of about 6 percent, though the appreciation is greater in real terms because inflation in China is higher than in the United States.
Failure to allow more rapid appreciation could accelerate inflation in China, lead to asset price bubbles and undermine the rebalancing of the Chinese economy, Mr. Geithner said.
The United States is willing to grant China more access to American-made high-technology products and to expand trade and investment opportunities in the United States -- top priorities for the Chinese -- ''but our ability to move on these issues will depend on how much progress we see from China,'' he added.
The speech, at the university's School for Advanced International Studies, where Mr. Geithner received a master's degree in 1985, was intended to signal that economic and strategic considerations were expected to equally share the agenda during the visit next week.
It was sandwiched between a visit to Beijing on Tuesday by Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary, and an address scheduled for Friday by Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state, events that highlight the political and strategic tensions. Mr. Gates's appeals for a closer military dialogue between the two powers were overshadowed by a test flight of a new Chinese stealth fighter, and Mrs. Clinton is expected to outline strategic priorities, notably how to handle North Korea.
Elizabeth C. Economy, director of Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, called Mr. Geithner's speech ''smart and to the point'' after reading it.
''Too often in the U.S.-China relationship, it appears as though the United States gives and hopes that China will give back,'' she said. ''I think Secretary Geithner is making it clear that those days are over.''
All the same, Mr. Geithner did not leave Washington unscathed, saying it was imperative for the government to invest more in education, infrastructure and research and development, and for it to improve the incentives for business investment and to ''restore fiscal responsibility.''
Margaret M. Pearson, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, said that theme was likely to go over well. ''The Chinese love it when we talk about our own problems and do not focus just on them,'' she said.
William J. Norris, a political scientist at the Princeton-Harvard China and the World Program, said the financial crisis ''has been interpreted in China as evidence that the Western model of liberalization, with less of a role for the government in managing the economy, has been discredited.''
He said of President Obama and President Hu: ''Both want to move the relationship forward, but both are facing increasing domestic pressure to take a tougher line vis-a-vis the other country.''
China's government is not a monolith, and scholars say the ruling Communist regime has been torn between powerful export interests, who favor a managed exchange rate and measures to promote Chinese industry, and economic reformers, who see greater market flexibility and stronger enforcement of trade and intellectual property rules as the way to advance the Chinese economy over the long run.
''The compromise for now is that much state spending accompanies gradual market liberalization,'' said Peter A. Petri, who teaches finance at the International Business School of Brandeis University. ''This will work as long as the Chinese don't feel too threatened by the U.S. and the economy stays reasonably strong. The Geithner speech will help the good guys.''
China has already taken steps to combat the theft of intellectual property and discrimination against foreign firms, and to expand public spending on health care and education so that Chinese consumers do not feel compelled to save so much -- actions that Mr. Geithner cautiously praised.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Geithner discussed relations with China at a speech on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 China's president, Hu Jintao, is likely to discuss its currency with President Obama next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); HU JINTAO (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



332 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Increases Aid to Jordan

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The United States is increasing its aid to Jordan by $100 million to help the nation's poor, its young people and its underprivileged. The grant is in addition to the $363 million in regular economic assistance to Jordan for the 2010 fiscal year. Jordan is grappling with rising prices for basic commodities and fuel. This week, the government slashed prices, possibly fearing the type of unrest that has hit Tunisia and Algeria. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (85%); PRICE CUTTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



333 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CASE STUDY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Tough Options For Family Business In a Tailspin

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
FIRST QUALITY MUSIC is a family-owned supplier of stringed musical instruments, including guitars and mandolins, and parts and accessories. Founded in Louisville, Ky., in 1970, the company also makes banjos and game calls for hunters. The nine-employee operation includes a retail showroom, a small banjo factory and a warehouse with inventory for online and mail-order purchases.
THE CHALLENGE Get back in the black. Between 2007 and 2010, First Quality Music posted an operating loss of $460,000 despite $20 million in total sales. As of last spring, the co-owners, Jeff and Eric Sullivan, knew they were hurtling toward bankruptcy but lacked a plan to save the company their father started four decades ago in their basement. 
THE BACKGROUND During the late 1960s, Bill Sullivan, the patriarch and founder of First Quality Music, was working in a tool-and-die shop at General Electric when he discovered his calling: banjos. He had no talent for playing them, but after reading a book by Earl Scruggs, the banjo legend, he thought he might be able to build one. Before long, Mr. Sullivan was selling banjo parts -- preslotted fingerboards and necks -- as fast as he could make them. His timing was pitch-perfect. ''Deliverance'' hit theaters in 1972, and ''Dueling Banjos,'' the rollicking duet that was the film's signature song, shot to No. 2 on Billboard's pop singles chart.
In 1982, Mr. Sullivan quit his day job to focus on his fledgling company, then called First Quality Banjo. Over the next decade, the business grew, and his sons branched out with two sister companies, First Quality Strings and First Quality Neckworks. He also won a large new client for banjo parts: Gibson, the musical instrument manufacturer best known for its electric guitars.
The family's three businesses joined together as First Quality Music Supplies in 1999. That year, sales passed $1 million, the company was profitable, and the Sullivans reached another milestone: they packed up their paperwork and inventory, still piled high in family basements and garages, and moved into an industrial park.
Sales kept climbing and, in 2000, the family decided to build and sell a line of banjos under the Sullivan name. But overhead was growing, too, and it started to swallow the profits. By 2006, First Quality had 28 employees and $5.5 million in revenue and was barely breaking even. ''We were on a path to grow ourselves out of business,'' said Eric Sullivan, who is 39. ''Before long, you had so much overhead that if there's any dip, you can't survive it. There were several days when I was like, 'Wow, that basement was really nice.' ''
In 2007, the picture darkened. Bill Sullivan died unexpectedly of a brain aneurysm at age 67. His sons were devastated. And then the recession began. The brothers were slow to acknowledge where things were headed. ''We were living in denial for so long,'' Eric said with a wistful laugh, ''that I was getting mail delivered there.''
The bank froze First Quality's credit line in 2008. To stay afloat, Jeff and Eric took out loans and amassed more than $500,000 in capital by cashing out their 401(k)s and refinancing their homes. But things were not getting better.
In 2009, sales flat-lined at $3.5 million, and a painful truth started to emerge: In effect, the brothers were paying to go to work each day.
THE OPTIONS Like the draft horse in ''Animal Farm'' by George Orwell -- who responds to all troubles with, ''I will work harder!'' -- the Sullivans are tireless. They keep long hours and, after the recession hit, their wives began working at First Quality without pay. So the first option was to redouble those efforts. The other choice? Get some tough love from outside the family.
Listening to the radio, Eric heard about a book called ''Profits Aren't Everything, They're the Only Thing'' by George Cloutier, founder and chief executive of American Management Services, a consulting firm based in Orlando, Fla., that specializes in turning around terminally ill companies. He bought the book and devoured it in an evening. Along with case studies, the book offers such maxims as ''Love your business more than your family'' and ''The best family business has one member.''
''I was not going to fire my family,'' Jeff Sullivan, who is 45, recalls pointedly. Still, in early 2010, First Quality's sales were down almost 40 percent from three years earlier. Something had to give.
Last March, First Quality paid $500 to have an analyst from Mr. Cloutier's firm visit and produce a business survey by combing through company financials, touring the premises and soliciting employee answers to a confidential questionnaire.
The results said plainly what no one had wanted to admit: the company was ''functionally bankrupt.'' Sources of outside capital were exhausted, and First Quality would wrap up 2010, at best, with an $80,000 loss on $3.5 million in sales.
The survey also noted that internal financial and operational reports were few and far between, which left them ''flying blind.'' Employee responsibilities were poorly defined and uncoordinated, creating inefficiency, ''frustration,'' a ''fiefdom mentality'' and ''problem swarming,'' the tendency for many workers to cluster around a single task.
Pulling First Quality out of its tailspin would require ''immediate, sweeping changes.'' The owners, the survey suggested, needed to make ''a business plan for predetermined profit'' rather than just reacting to day-to-day challenges. They would have to generate more detailed financial data, including job-costing analyses, flash reports and forecasts. They would also have to set benchmarks, define roles more clearly and review employee performance.
The survey assigned dollar values to potential improvements. Better labor management, for example, could increase First Quality's profits by $67,000 annually; stronger billing and collections systems and faster inventory turns would add another $30,000. The survey estimated that, in total, First Quality had the potential to reap more than $1 million in cost savings in the following three years.
This information left the Sullivans at a critical juncture. They could hire American Management Services to institute a full turnaround plan, but there was no guarantee the plan would work and it would cost $170,000 -- money they did not have. ''They are by no means cheap,'' Jeff said. Or the brothers could go it alone, using the survey's insights as a starting point to devise their own plan.
WHAT OTHERS SAY Matthew Stewart spent 10 years as a management consultant before writing ''The Management Myth,'' a critique of his former industry: ''If the long-term problem is that the family has exceeded its managerial capabilities, then getting a list of solutions from a management consultant -- however accurate or perfect a list it is -- won't solve the problem.''
Chris Carey, president of Chris Carey Advisors, a consulting firm based in Brooklyn: ''This is the definition of crazy. Each year they keep doing the same things and hoping for a different result. I think they're smart to bring in an outside resource, but I would make sure the resource is focusing on the entire business, not just operations. And I would make the payment performance-based.''
Doug Tatum, co-founder and former chief executive of Tatum, a nationwide provider of chief financial officer services: ''My gut feeling would be if they went through their entire product line and got rid of half of it they would probably make a lot more money on a lot less sales.''
THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on the Sullivans' situation on the You're the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and in this space, we will explain how things worked out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Sullivan, left, and his brother, Eric, co-owners of First Quality Music, which was founded by their father. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOFF OLIVER BUGBEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (93%); MUSIC (91%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); FAMILY (89%); MEN (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (88%) KENTUCKY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



334 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: U.A.W. to Renew Organizing Efforts at Foreign-Owned Plants

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The United Automobile Workers union this year is renewing its effort to organize workers at plants that foreign automakers operate in the United States and will portray companies that resist as ''human rights violators,'' the union's president said Wednesday. 
The president, Bob King, said the companies would be better off morally and financially if they allowed their workers to organize. The union, he said, has changed its philosophy and could help the companies become more competitive, not less.
''We just have to convince them that we're not the evil empire that they think we are,'' Mr. King told reporters at an auto industry conference near the North American International Auto Show here.
Last week, the U.A.W. released a list of 11 principles for ''fair union elections'' that it wants foreign-based manufacturers to adopt and said it had set aside $60 million from its strike fund to spend on organizing efforts within the plans of those companies. The principles are aimed at giving workers the chance to decide whether they want to unionize without intimidation, fear of repercussions from either side or misleading information.
Mr. King said Wednesday that union leaders were in preliminary talks with some of the companies it was focusing on, but he declined to identify them.
Toyota, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Nissan and BMW all have plants in the United States, all nonunion and mostly in the South, away from areas like the Midwest where unions hold greater influence. (A U.A.W.-represented plant in California that was operated by a joint venture of Toyota and General Motors closed last year, and the union has been pressuring Toyota to rehire its former workers when the plant reopens to build electric vehicles in a partnership with Tesla.) Volkswagen is building a plant in Tennessee.
Steve St. Angelo, Toyota's top manufacturing executive in the United States, said this week that he had not seen the U.A.W.'s principles and could not comment on them directly.
He said any organization decisions would be up to workers but suggested that Toyota, which has five United States assembly plants, is better off without the U.A.W., noting that the company did not lay off any employees during the recession, even when it temporarily stopped running some plants to let inventories thin out.
''We do have principles at Toyota, called the Toyota Way,'' Mr. St. Angelo said. ''Those principles have worked very well for us over the years. We provide competitive wages and benefits.''
In Japan, the Toyota Motor Workers' Union has more than 60,000 members. Mr. King said carmakers who operate with unions in their home countries but discourage unionization in the United States are treating their American workers like ''second-class global citizens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (63%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



335 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: After a Successful Bond Sale by Portugal, a Higher Finish for Wall Street

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street finished solidly higher on Wednesday after European debt fears eased. The broad advance was led by banks and commodity-related shares.
Investors expect further flows into equities on speculation the economy will strengthen.
Banks were led by JPMorgan Chase, which rose 2.5 percent to $44.71 after its chief executive said the bank could increase its dividend once the Federal Reserve gave its approval. JPMorgan is expected to report its quarterly results on Friday.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 83.56 points, or 0.72 percent, at 11,755.44. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 11.48 points, or 0.90 percent, at 1,285.96. The Nasdaq was up 20.50 points, or 0.75 percent, at 2,737.33. 
The S.& P. is almost 9 percent higher since the start of December, in part on bets that earnings would be strong. While early results have suggested that optimism was justified, some analysts say it may be hard for equities to rise much further given recent gains.
Eric Marshall, director of research at Hodges Capital Management in Dallas said that money leaving the bond market was ''slowly coming back into equities. This is really about the first time in three years we've seen outflows out of bond funds.''
A healthy bond auction in Portugal drove investors into riskier assets. Portugal sold bonds valued at 1.25 billion euros ($1.62 billion) to strong demand. Lisbon's borrowing costs fell on the 10-year issue, but rose in the five-year. Investors were hopeful euro zone finance ministers would beef up the European Union's rescue fund.
''Europe has kept people from becoming more bullish than they would be otherwise, and the demand in the auction sets a positive tone going forward,'' said E. William Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
Jason Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede Investment and Wealth Management in Philadelphia, said the auction showed stability in Europe. ''There have been fears of contagion that could ripple into equity markets'' he said.
Also lifting banks on Wednesday were positive comments from Wells Fargo, which raised the bank sector to an overweight rating, citing a decline in credit costs and positive loan growth.
Agricultural stocks rallied after a government report said American stockpiles of corn and soybeans would be drawn down to surprisingly low levels, lifting food prices and agricultural shares.
The seed company Monsanto rose 3.3 percent while Corn Products International was up 2.1 percent. The farm equipment company Deere & Company rose 2 percent.
Shares of ITT Corporation, the diversified manufacturer, surged 16.5 percent, to $61.50, after the company said it would separate its businesses into three publicly traded companies, and shareholders would own shares in all the three corporations.
Investors focused early on Lisbon's bond auction.
Traders were keen to see if debt-laden countries could finance themselves at a sustainable cost or be forced to turn to the European Union and International Monetary Fund for financial aid in the same way that Ireland and Greece did last year.
The FTSE 100 in London rose 36.69 points, or 0.61 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt added 127.21 points, or 1.8 percent.
The CAC 40 in Paris gained 83.15 points, or 2.15 percent.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 6/32, to 93 27/32. The yield rose to 3.37 percent, from 3.34 percent late Tuesday.
In Japan, the Nikkei gained on Wednesday, hitting an eight-month high at one point, as some upbeat earnings reports and a weaker yen provided momentum for foreign investors to pile into financial and property shares.
In the end, however, the Nikkei closed 2.12 points higher, at 10,512.80.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EURO (87%); BOND MARKETS (87%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (84%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); FOOD PRICES (63%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); ITT CORP (60%); DEERE & CO (60%); FARM EQUIPMENT CO INC (60%); INGREDION INC (51%); MONSANTO CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); ITT (NYSE) (60%); DE (NYSE) (60%); INGR (NYSE) (51%); MON (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC5083 FARM & GARDEN MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); NAICS311221 WET CORN MILLING (51%); SIC2046 WET CORN MILLING (51%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) EUROPE (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



336 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: In Nielsen's Public Offering, a Bellwether for Buyout Shops

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Over the next two weeks, executives at the market researcher Nielsen will traverse the United States and Europe to sell big investors on its $1.5 billion offering, putting it on track to become the first major company backed by private equity to go public this year.
The stakes are high, not only for the company's owners, including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the Carlyle Group and the Blackstone Group, but also for the rest of the buyout world. 
If Nielsen succeeds, it could pave the way for other big, private equity-backed offerings. If it fails, buyout shops may have to continue to wait or find alternative exits from the debt-laden companies they picked up at the height of the boom.
''It does set the tone,'' said David Abella, a portfolio manager with Rochdale Investment Management. ''It's a pretty big bellwether for private equity deals that were highly leveraged.''
Nielsen was typical for a deal made during the private equity party. In 2006, a group of six buyout firms paid $10 billion for Nielsen's parent, a transaction that piled on $1.67 billion in debt. The owners quickly lured a top executive from General Electric, David Calhoun, to run the business. It was a record year, with private equity deals topping $372 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
Then the financial crisis hit, debt dried up and firms retrenched. In 2008-9, buyouts totaled just $52.8 billion. During the drought, firms had few options for offloading their portfolio companies.
As the equity and bond markets recovered last year, private equity deal makers started looking for new purchases - and more important, moved to find buyers for existing holdings. But while the industry had some success selling companies to strategic players or other buyout shops, it had less luck taking holdings public.
The lackluster I.P.O. market was only part of the issue. Investors also shied away from debt-heavy businesses, like Harrah's Entertainment, the private equity-owned casino chain that withdrew its offering in November. There were just 37 private equity-backed offerings last year, well below the annual average of 58 from 2004 to 2007, according to Renaissance Capital.
Now, such companies are clogging the I.P.O. pipeline. Among them are buyouts from the 2006 class of mega-deals, including Nielsen, the oil and gas company Kinder Morgan and the hospital chain HCA. In the last 250 days, three dozen private equity-backed companies have filed to go public, collectively hoping to raise $14 billion, according to Dealogic.
''From an investor standpoint, the private equity deals coming to the market are not fully attractive,'' Mr. Abella said. ''The issue is that they were heavily leveraged deals taken over at the height of the market.''
Nielsen will try to win over such skeptics in the next two weeks. The company is expected to price its offering on Jan. 25, according to a person close to the deal who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. A spokesman for Nielsen declined to comment.
Investors, in part, will be focused on the fundamentals and debt. Nielsen, best known for measuring television viewers and providing consumer research to companies like Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola, has been expanding into Web and mobile analytics. But it doesn't have the dominant hold that it has in other spaces, facing stiff competition from comScore and other online-focused firms.
Its financial results have been mixed. Nielsen's chief, in an I.P.O. presentation available on RetailRoadshow.com, boasted that the company didn't have a down year during the recession.That may be the case for revenue, but the company reported annual net losses from 2007 to 2009, finally achieving a profit of $128 million in the first nine months of last year.
As for its debt burden, Mr. Calhoun said that was a top priority. The company plans to use the proceeds from its offering to cut its $8.6 billion debt.
''We will continue to de-lever, and my objective is to be to investment grade as soon as I can get there,'' he said in the video presentation.
The low-interest rate environment may provide further help, said Charles K. Bobrinskoy, co-portfolio manager for Ariel Investments.
''A lot of these companies were purchased with very expensive debt,'' Mr. Bobrinskoy said. ''Interest rates have dropped dramatically in the last 12 months, so the profitability of these companies will be higher in 2011 versus 2010, just because interest expense will be a lot lower.''
Mr. Bobrinskoy said he had no current plans to invest in Nielsen but might consider other private equity-backed I.P.O.'s.
Even if Nielsen can sell investors on its I.P.O., the company will have to be realistic about the eventual price. According to Renaissance Capital, some 70 percent of equity-backed I.P.O.'s last year priced below the midpoint of their offering range. The challenge was starkly illustrated in the August debut of the chip maker NXP Semiconductors. A group of buyout firms, led by K.K.R. and Bain Capital, effectively admitted defeat in the pricing battle, offering shares at $14, well below its target.
''Investors want to be compensated for taking on risk and providing liquidity - they're saying, 'We're willing to help you out but you have to give us a good price,' '' said Paul Bard, a vice president at Renaissance Capital, an investment firm based in Greenwich, Conn.
Already, Nielsen seems to have tempered its expectations. The offering, if priced at $20 to $22 a share, would raise about $1.5 billion. Under the terms of the deal, underwriters also have the option to buy an additional 10.7 million shares, bringing the potential size of the offering to $1.7 billion. In August 2010, the company said it could raise as much as $2 billion.
But even at a more modest size, Nielsen's would be the largest private equity-backed debt since Spirit Aerosystems' $1.4 billion offering in November 2006.
''We really haven't seen a big-name private equity deal in about six months,'' Mr. Bard said. ''If this deal does well, it means the window is open. Then you'll see others pick up and follow soon after.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Calhoun
If Nielsen's I.P.O. succeeds, it could pave the way for other private equitybacked offerings, including those for Kinder Morgan, top, and HCA. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JOHN RUSSELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (93%); PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GAMING (77%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); DROUGHT (64%); HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (90%); KKR & CO LP (72%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (52%); KINDER MORGAN INC (51%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (72%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); CZR (NASDAQ) (52%); KMI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (52%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (52%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



337 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Mentoring Program Turns Cameras On Its Young Clients

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
FOR the first time in its more than 100-year history, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America is actively seeking donations, through a nationwide campaign, to underwrite its work with children at risk.
The outreach is part of a new public service advertising initiative that was created with the help of the Advertising Council and is being announced Thursday, as part of the 10th anniversary celebration of National Mentoring Month.
Called ''Start Something,'' the campaign uses traditional as well as social media to illustrate the positive impact the adult volunteers of Big Brothers Big Sisters have on children's lives, and to solicit both volunteers and financial support. The organization's previous national public service advertising, which began in 2002, was also created with the Ad Council and sought only volunteers. 
Established in 1904, Big Brothers Big Sisters matches adult volunteers with children from poor or single-parent families, or who have an incarcerated parent, all considered at risk; the organization estimates there are 10 million to 15 million such children in the United States. Big Brothers Big Sisters volunteers are expected to make a minimum one-year commitment to serve as a mentor to these children.
According to Mack Koonce, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Big Brothers Big Sisters, although the need for volunteer services has risen continuously as the economy has weakened, the organization's funding has dropped, which means it must reduce the number of volunteers it can support. It costs about $1,000 a year for an adult volunteer to mentor a child, with most money going to administrative expenses.
Mr. Koonce said last year Big Brothers Big Sisters' 380 local affiliates helped 227,000 pairs of adult mentors and children, when the group had revenue of $278 million; in 2008, it assisted 255,000 youngsters, when revenue was $290 million.
A strategic review begun in 2007 concluded that Big Brothers Big Sisters needed to make ''two fundamental shifts,'' Mr. Koonce said. ''People know us for our mentoring, but not what we achieve, our outcomes. And we're known as a place to volunteer more than a place to donate.''
According to a 1995 study by Public/Private Ventures, a nonprofit research and program development group, after 18 months of spending time with adult mentors, children in Big Brothers Big Sisters are 46 percent less likely to begin using illegal drugs, 27 percent less likely to begin using alcohol and 52 percent less likely to skip school than at-risk children not in the program.
To reposition Big Brothers Big Sisters, the Ad Council brought in the New York office of Naked Communications -- a branding and communications strategy consulting company -- to develop an initial strategy, and the New York office of Publicis Modem USA, the digital agency of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, which further developed and executed the strategy.
Publicis Modem's new ads -- directed mostly at people who support groups that aid children -- delivers the campaign's various messages while soliciting donations in a low-key way.
For example, a new TV spot asks, ''What if every child was sent on the right path? What if every child stayed in school? Graduated college? Got a job? Gave back to the community? What if every child's potential was fulfilled? What could that start? It could be the start of something big. Every time you donate money or time to Big Brothers Big Sisters it makes a big impact on a Little. Start something at BigBrothersBigSisters.org.''
Web banners will begin running this month, with TV and radio advertising in late January or early February, while print and outdoor media will start in the third quarter of this year.
In addition, adult volunteers and the children they mentor will use video cameras to document their experiences together; their chronicles will be posted on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Flickr later in this quarter.
''We were looking for a way to create a personal connection and engagement with Big Brothers Big Sisters, and we felt the best way to do this was to show the impact these relationships have,'' said Dani Nadel, president of Publicis Modem USA. ''Social media is a great way to create a first-hand experience of the true benefits of the program.''
The campaign is getting a significant boost from many Big Brothers Big Sisters corporate partners, including Arby's, which donated $675,000 for research and marketing; Comcast, which is giving more than $3 million in air time and online media this year; Nivea, which is raising money through an iTunes promotion this month; and AOL, Facebook and MSN Advertising, all of which have made firm commitments to run the new online ads.
Marketing and philanthropic experts generally praised the campaign's strategy.
Stephen A. Greyser, professor emeritus of marketing at the Harvard Business School, said ''the most effective thing'' Big Brothers Big Sisters has done ''is the way it harnessed the energy'' of its corporate partners.
Peter Levine, director of the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University, said the most innovative aspect of the campaign ''is the fact that the 'Bigs' and the 'Littles' will be contributing content. It's a creative move to empower laypeople, volunteers and kids to produce advertising media for a large organization.''
However, Pablo Eisenberg, a senior fellow at the Georgetown University Public Policy Institute, warned that the campaign's reliance on social media ''may not produce the huge amounts of money they want to get. There's a strong correlation between giving and age; those who are older and have some means give more than the young.''
Not surprisingly, Peggy Conlon, chief executive of the Ad Council, is bullish. ''One thing that's known about philanthropy is that the biggest reason people do not give is because they haven't been asked,'' she said. The initiative has all the right ingredients. ''It will have a very powerful, dramatic draw.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Paul Adan, left, and Edgar from Big Brothers Big Sisters are in the group's new campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOUT TUFANKJIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); PARENTS (77%); BRANDING (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (60%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); PUBLICIS MODEM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA (94%); ADVERTISING COUNCIL (58%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



338 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Pushing Boundaries That No Longer Exist

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
THREE times this week I've heard someone refer to ''a parallel world.'' The first was on Sunday, when the wife of a college friend said that she did not pay much attention to the celebrity-media culture. My friend, a real estate investor, and his wife, a doctor, had left Manhattan for Darien, Conn., shortly after 9/11 and were raising two girls in a neighborhood of two-story Colonials and adjoining lawns. I had the distinct sense that she did not mind not knowing who Snooki was (nor did her husband or their elder child, a polite and articulate eighth grader with braids), but also that at one time she did not feel quite so separated from mass culture.
''I feel like I'm living in a parallel world,'' she said. 
On Monday morning, on the MSNBC program ''Morning Joe,'' I heard Mike Barnicle make a similar comment, although in the context of the Tucson shootings. The next day, I happened to be speaking to Barbara Vinken, a professor of French literature at the University of Munich and the author of ''Fashion Zeitgeist,'' when she referred to the Internet not merely as a parallel universe of self-created identities and opportunities, but as ''a dark continent,'' a place where people ''more and more live rather than in the real world.''
This is not a coincidence. Feeling that you are on multiple channels, and not understanding anything clearly, seems to be a condition of modern life, and each of us deals with it differently. My friends do not let their daughters watch television; they just think it is a time-waster and a brain drain. Guarding their creative powers in a world flooded with images and other content, much of it mediocre, is also a concern among up-and-coming fashion photographers like Danko Steiner and Daniel Sannwald, who already deal with timid magazine editors and the perception that, for now, fashion has nothing significant to say.
Few people spend more time looking at fashion images than Pascal Dangin, the founder of Box Studios, who retouches the work of photographers like Patrick Demarchelier, Steven Meisel, Inez van Lamsweerde and Vinoodh Matadin, as well the pages of Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and Allure, and he says, ''We live in a rather dull moment in fashion.''
You can maybe understand, then, why designers and photographers want to perk things up with sex. Sexuality and gender crossovers are always a place to go, like a ''Renaissance curiosity cabinet,'' as Professor Vinken put it, but especially now that the industry has become slushy with products, and luxury has lost some of its allure. And, as Mr. Dangin said, ''We still have some big taboos about sex.''
Last year, Givenchy arguably got as much attention for using Lea T, a transsexual model, in its advertisements as it did for Riccardo Tisci's collections. Ms. T, a friend of the designer's for years and a fit model for the house, appeared in fall ads. For his spring 2011 show, Raf Simons used Andrej Pejic, a model with long blond hair and girlish features, because, as Mr. Simons said, his collection of zippered cotton tunics and wide trousers dealt in part with the subject of transgender. ''It's become a natural thing for people to change their bodies,'' he said.
Next month, Mr. Pejic will appear in ads for Marc by Marc Jacobs, photographed by Juergen Teller. Mr. Meisel, who has used androgynous models at different periods of his career, took that approach with Balenciaga's spring campaign. Following on the Lea T ads, Mr. Tisci hired Stephen Thompson, who has albinism.
This week, preparing for his Thierry Mugler debut on Jan. 19 at the Paris men's shows, Nicola Formichetti was in Montreal photographing a young man named Rick Genest, whom he found on Facebook and is known as Rico. Mr. Genest had his body tattooed to resemble a skeleton, with blackened eye sockets and ghoulishly large dentiture on his lips. ''Rico is my muse,'' Mr. Formichetti, who styles Lady Gaga, wrote in an e-mail.
Of course, in fashion, things can always get stranger, but they rarely do anymore. Nudity, androgyny, sado-masochistic fantasies, an overtly gay sensibility -- all these ideas have been expressed for years. It is hard to look at a collection by Rick Owens, one of the few designers who manages to be both avant-garde and commercial, without seeing androgynous models, and he also once hired a person with albinism.
For Mr. Tisci's generation, these ideas might be interesting to explore in a new context, and with greater acceptance. But more often than not, the decisions seem arbitrary, amounting to dissidence on the consumer level -- something that Susan Sontag and other cultural critics complained about in the 1990s. ''It's just manipulation to get you to the next thing,'' said Klaus Stockhausen, the fashion director of German GQ.
As Mr. Dangin said, though, it is easy to see why sexuality is such a hot button. Things are a bit frozen. Many of the designers who could truly communicate ideas -- Martin Margiela, Helmut Lang, Alexander McQueen -- are gone from the scene. The London-based Mr. Sannwald, whose slightly futuristic photographs are inspired in part by the work of Fritz Lang and other early German filmmakers, recalled being told by an editor of a British magazine that his images were too extreme. He quickly countered by producing some very old issues of Vogue, but those pictures were deemed too risky to use today.
''It was unbelievable,'' Mr. Sannwald said. ''Everybody is concerned about pleasing the advertisers, and it's not just the big magazines.''
Like Mr. Steiner, who was the design director of Vogue before he became a full-time photographer, Mr. Sannwald tries to ignore what the mainstream magazines have determined is interesting. Mr. Steiner, whose arresting images appear in the Berlin-based magazine 032c, said, ''I've always believed that there's a guiding parameter to photographs, and that's quality,'' adding, ''I don't think commercial is a bad word. Independent magazines can be just as horribly trashy as the others.''
In some ways, the focus on sexuality reflects the fairly narrow thinking of designers and photographers (or, possibly, of editors and advertising agency art directors). After all, the Internet offers people all kinds of ways to express themselves -- through blogs, e-commerce, photographs and videos. To be sure, some of it is not worthwhile, but the Internet represents a world that is livelier, more daring and actual than what currently takes place on runways and in mainstream magazines.
One direction suggested by the Internet is the return of individual creative power. As Professor Vinken said, if people can surgically manipulate their bodies, or virtually turn their bodies inside out with tattoos, ''you have to wonder what the function of fashion still is?'' These ideas, along with technological influences like the shape of carbon-fiber automobiles, are far more potent than another gender-bender.
The photographer Phillip Toledano thinks so, too. He did a series of portraits of people who had undergone fairly radical cosmetic surgery. One man told him he wanted to look like an animated character. ''I think the good thing about technology is that it's going to widen the definition of beauty,'' Mr. Toledano said. ''It's pretty narrow now, and also quite modish.'' Maybe by the time his infant daughter is a teenager, he mused, she will be able to take a pill and have blue skin. ''Because that will be the fashion for a week or two.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW CONTEXT: Stephen Thompson, in back, who has albinism, in a Givenchy ad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIVENCHY) (E1)
CROSSOVERS: Above, the tattooed model Rick Genest. Right, androgyny in a Balenciaga ad. Left, an image from Phillip Toledano's book about people who have had radical plastic surgery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLA FORMICHETTI
PHILLIP TOLEDANO/KOMPCHING GALLERY
 BALENCIAGA) (E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); WRITERS (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY (66%); LITERATURE (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



339 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Graying Men Choosing the Touch-Up

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
LIKE bartenders, hairstylists get an earful from regulars about their woes, and during the economic downturn Jeff Swaner, who owns Epic Salon in Los Angeles, has been hearing from middle-age men who lost their jobs.
''A lot of these guys had solid careers that they never thought they would leave, and now they're jumping into new careers and competing for these jobs against younger people,'' Mr. Swaner said.
Many of these job seekers are, for the first time, having their gray hair colored.
''They don't want to have age as a barrier, and this is one of the ways that they can look a little younger and feel more comfortable about going in and interviewing for a job,'' Mr. Swaner said. Today, about 40 percent of his male clients are having color treatments, more than twice as many as from just two years ago, he said. 
Whether it's because of career insecurity begat by a bad economy or simple vanity, use of hair color among boomer men is, not surprisingly, booming. While the number of men over 18 who color their hair doubled from 1999 to 2010, from 3 percent to 6 percent, among men age 50 to 64 the rate has grown even more, from 3 percent to 10 percent, according to Multi-sponsor Surveys, a research firm.
But while maintaining the hair color they had in 1965 may suit Mick Jagger and Paul McCartney, most men today prefer to reduce gray, not eliminate it, spurred by marketers cultivating the attitude that a little gray may make a man look distinguished, but too much makes him look extinguished.
First sold in drug stores in 2008, Touch of Gray ($8) was ''designed to specifically meet the needs of boomer men who like the respect that their gray hair gives them, but want to reduce the amount of gray so that others can see their vitality,'' according to information from the brand.
It is made by Combe Inc., also the company behind the Just for Men and Grecian Formula lines. Domestic revenues for Touch of Gray grew 15.5 percent in the 52 weeks that ended Nov. 28, to $11.3 million, according to Symphony/IRI Group, a market research firm (these figures do not include sales from Wal-Mart).
Consumer Reports sent 11 graying men on its staff home with Touch of Gray, and the majority thought it looked ''quite natural'' and would buy it, according to a 2010 article in the magazine, which also gave high ratings to another product, Clairol Natural Instincts for Men ($8).
For those seeking professional help, numerous men's salon products have popped up that promise to remove some gray while stopping short of turning clients into Mr. Spock. In 2009, Redken for Men introduced an in-salon product, Color Camo, that blends away some gray, followed last year by similarly formulated men's products by Paul Mitchell, Goldwell and American Crew. The treatments usually cost between $25 and $50, well below the car-payment range many women pay for color treatments.
''I'm older, so people expect to see some gray, but you don't want to give the impression that you're so old that you're over the hill,'' said Gregory B. Wood, 65, a lawyer in Los Angeles who has been getting the Paul Mitchell treatment, Flashback, from Mr. Swaner every six weeks for about a year, leaving some streaks of gray in his hair.
Over the last year, Richard Limato, 59, of the Bronx, a school district administrator, has received Goldwell treatments, called ReShade, from his Manhattan stylist, Bradley Moreland, at Gemini 14.
''It enhanced my natural look and made the gray look secondary,'' said Mr. Limato, whose brown hair retains flecks of gray after the treatment, particularly at his temples.
These new products tend to be demi-permanent, meaning that dyes cover gray only moderately and gradually fade away as hair grows, so they do not leave tell-tale demarcation lines near the scalp. (Darker roots can be particularly conspicuous with men's shorter hairstyles.) The products also claim to minimize the yellowish or brassy tones that can crop up in dye jobs, since they contain little or no ammonia or peroxide.
The salon treatments are as short as five minutes and spare men the indignity of foils.
''You lean them back into the shampoo bowl, sit them back up and, voila, you're five years younger,'' said Sue Arens, manager of operations and training director at Floyd's 99 Barbershop, a chain of 51 barbershops.
Like many in the salon industry, Ms. Arens said that stylists who broach men's gray do so delicately, avoiding the word ''color.''
''We say, 'We have a product that blends some of the gray out,' '' Ms. Arens said. ''Doesn't it sound like less of a commitment than 'color your hair' -- and aren't guys commitment-phobes in general?''
Trevor Attenborough, the vice president for marketing at KPSS, the parent company of Goldwell, said: ''You don't say the word 'color' to men, ever. We say, 'reduce gray,' or 'reshade.' ''
At Supercuts, color services purchased by men (about 70 percent of the company's customer base) have experienced double-digit growth in each of the last three years, with about three-quarters of men who color choosing to tone down but not eliminate gray, according to Melanie Ash, senior artistic director. ''They don't want their friends to run up to them and say, 'Hey, what did you do?' '' Ms. Ash said.
But Wendell Brown, senior fashion editor at Esquire, cautions men against any dyeing whatsoever.
''I'm not a big fan of men coloring their hair,'' he said. ''We're at a time when gray hair is considered stylish and manly.''
Mr. Brown pointed to George Clooney, Anderson Cooper and David Gregory, the host of ''Meet the Press,'' as examples of ''so many guys who are wearing gray well and who have a youthful attitude about it.''
Still, Kyle White, a colorist at the Oscar Blandi Salon whose celebrity clients include Mariah Carey and Charlize Theron, said that in the last few years, his color appointments for men had grown from two or three a week to that many daily.
About 90 percent of the men retain at least some gray in their hair, which he recommends. As for the remainder, ''those are guys who are maybe a little phobic about aging,'' Mr. White said. ''They would prefer to look artificial than to look old.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Andreotta has his hair colored and highlighted by Kyle White, a colorist at the Oscar Blandi Salon in Manhattan. A range of products from various companies, left and right, can be used to cover or brighten the gray at home. The new look is salt-and pepper, not shoe polish. ''We're at a time when gray hair is considered stylish,'' an editor at Esquire said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (TOP)
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES (PRODUCTS)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (90%); MEN (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (70%)

COMPANY: COMBE INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



340 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: For Survivors, Flashbacks and Questions That Visit at Night

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Kassie Bracken contributed reporting from Tucson.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Randy Gardner had stopped by Representative Gabrielle Giffords's community event on Saturday to thank her for supporting the health care overhaul when he heard the ''boom, pop, pop, pop'' and the cries of the wounded. Ducking for cover, he found the scene more than terrifying. He found it unbelievably familiar.
Mr. Gardner, 60, had survived a shooting once before. On May 4, 1970, he was a student at Kent State University when members of the Ohio National Guard opened fired on students protesting the Vietnam War, killing four people. He was in the crowd that day and ran for his life, 75 yards, before diving to the ground.
It was a landmark event for the country, but for Mr. Gardner it was a personal tragedy that stole a young woman from his English class, Allison Krause. And Saturday's killings, which left him with a bullet through the right foot, took him right back. 
''These types of experiences,'' he said, ''you change.''
Three of the survivors had very different reasons for attending Ms. Giffords's ''Congress on Your Corner'' event on Saturday, but they were each caught in the storm of bullets just the same.
Mr. Gardner tortures himself with questions about why he did not do more to save others.
J. Eric Fuller, a former limousine driver, has tried calming himself by writing out the Declaration of Independence, memorized during a difficult summer 30 years ago.
Bill D. Badger, a retired Army colonel, saw television footage of sleeping travelers in a snowy airport and broke down, flashing back to the memory of bodies after Saturday's shooting rampage.
They sit at odds on the political spectrum -- Mr. Badger is a lifelong Republican, Mr. Fuller a liberal, and Mr. Gardner a solid Democrat -- but these three men, with fresh wounds and wincing limps, now share the same challenges of adjusting to life as survivors: flashbacks, panic attacks, and midnight questions about justice, courage and luck.
''When you're six feet away from a 9-year-old girl and you live and they don't,'' Mr. Gardner said, ''it's hard.''
Of the 14 people who were wounded, 6 remain hospitalized, including Ms. Giffords.
Mr. Gardner, who left Portland, Ore., for Tucson in 2005, escaped by running to the parking lot in a crouch, hiding behind cars and taking refuge in a Walgreen's. He said he felt ''a heaviness'' as his right tennis shoe slowly filled with blood. He was released from the hospital on Sunday with a large bandage and crutches.
He keeps thinking about a conversation he had in line with a thoughtful, grandmotherly woman named Phyllis. Phyllis Schneck, 79, was killed, he learned later.
''Night is hard -- the quietness, and the ruminating about it,'' he said inside his home, on a sleepy cul-de-sac ringed by mountains. ''I had that feeling of sadness and guilt that, you know, I should have done more, why didn't I help out more,'' he said.
''Everyone wants to have that John Wayne moment, but. ...''
Mr. Gardner worked for decades as a mental health counselor, so the troubling signs investigators have uncovered about the man charged in the shootings, Jared L. Loughner, seem sadly familiar. Mr. Gardner sees large gaps in the country's mental health system that leave ''a lot of lone wolves leading very unhappy lives.''
But he also understands the challenges that he is likely to face as he struggles with survivor's guilt.
He said he planned to go to a memorial service for the dead Wednesday night, though he typically avoids those kinds of events. ''I hate the word 'closure,' but they can help with bringing people together,'' he said.
For Mr. Gardner, like many others in Tucson, the area's divisive political culture that saw Ms. Gifford, a Democrat, struggle to victory last year forms the backdrop to the shooting. He considers himself more liberal than Ms. Giffords, but he respected her for standing up to Republicans on issues like immigration, and especially health care.
''I was going to tell her to be strong, that her vote meant something to a lot of people and there was no reason to waver,'' he said.
Mr. Fuller, the limousine driver, also supported Ms. Giffords but he went to see her for different reasons.
He became interested in politics only recently, and fell hard for liberal causes. He sends e-mail blasts denouncing ''Replundercans.''
On Saturday, he stopped by Ms. Giffords's event after his weekly tennis game expecting to see protesters, whom he had seen at previous Giffords events.
''I wanted to give her a boost and to protect her from the Tea Party crime syndicate and to shout them down,'' he said. ''I can make a lot of noise.''
There were no protesters, but he got into a heated argument with another person waiting to meet Ms. Giffords. An aide to Ms. Giffords, Gabriel Zimmerman, quickly stepped in to break them up. Mr. Zimmerman was killed in the shootings.
Mr. Fuller was shot in the left knee, and a bullet grazed his back. He was released from the hospital on Monday, but he has struggled to adjust to a life that feels inalterably different.
The night after the shooting, he could not fall asleep. He found himself drawn to the words of the Declaration of Independence, which he memorized while he was unemployed and living in a trailer in Boise, Idaho, in 1980.
The language soothed him that night. But he still has flashes of anger.
''Recognizing his existence is a waste,'' he said of Mr. Loughner. ''I don't like his face.''
Unlike the others, Mr. Badger, the retired colonel and lifelong Republican, disagreed with many of Ms. Giffords's beliefs.
Mr. Badger stopped by Ms. Giffords's event after visiting a local car show -- his 1973 white Jaguar would have wowed the place, he thought -- planning to grill her on her support for what he calls ''Obamacare.''
As he was chatting with people in line about the gorgeous weather, the shooting began. A bullet grazed his head, leaving him bleeding. When the shots ended, he was one of several people who pushed the gunman, pinning him to the ground.
He describes the encounter with militarylike precision: he hit the gunman with his right hand, and then held down the gunman's left arm.
He is less vivid talking about his own psychological state after the attack. He dismissed questions about therapy, saying that he is ''mentally sound.'' He will attend memorial ceremonies to show respect for the victims.
But anguish has sneaked up. He spent only a few hours at the hospital receiving stitches for his wound; he thought he was coping. But then he saw television video of an airport where people were sleeping on the floor awaiting delayed flights. He thought of the crumpled bodies he had seen.
''I just wasn't ready for that shock,'' he said. ''I just broke down.''
The survivors and the victims families will struggle in their own ways for years to come, said Carol Gaxiola, director of Homicide Survivors, a Tucson-based victims advocacy group.
Ms. Gaxiola, whose own daughter, Jasmine, was killed 11 years ago, said she had spoken with families of all six of the dead.
''Your entire sense of safety has been totally invaded and violated,'' she said. ''It's like riding a wild wave of emotions -- it's up and down and very little respite.''
Of course, the survivors constantly remind themselves how lucky they are. The families of the dead are struggling with far deeper pain.
Ross Zimmerman, the father of the Giffords aide who was killed, said he spent the first day in shock, barely able to speak. He cannot sleep through the night, and often wakes up in tears.
''What kind of went through my mind was now, maybe, I've just got to wait out the rest of my life until I die,'' he said in an interview.
Slowly, he has begun to heal himself by speaking with friends and family about his son. But he said part of his method of coping has been facing the stark truth.
''Gabe's dead; he's not coming back,'' he said. ''There's nothing I can do about it, damn it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For Randy Gardner, the shooting on Saturday was not the first time he has been present for a violent episode in United States history. He was at Kent State in 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bill Badger was slightly wounded in the shooting, but also was one of several people who pinned the gunman to the ground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); WOMEN (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); ARMIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%) OREGON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



341 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. to Sell Taiwan Unit

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
4:48 a.m. Updated
The American International Group said on Wednesday that it would sell its Taiwan life insurance business, Nan Shan Life, to a consortium in Taiwan for $2.16 billion. 
Nan Shan Life has four million policy holders, making it an attractive asset in the crowded Taiwanese insurance sector. The sale is part of A.I.G.'s efforts to pay back the more than $180 billion it received from the United States government to stave off a collapse at the height of the global financial crisis.
The divestment of Nan Shan Life has been plagued by political and regulatory concerns. An earlier attempt to sell the unit for $2.15 billion to a consortium of Primus Financial Holdings, a Hong Kong investment company founded by a former senior Citigroup banker, and the investment firm China Strategic Holdings was blocked by Taiwan's financial regulators, who said the bidders did not have the financial strength and the long-term commitment to run the company.
In November, A.I.G. told the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had received unsolicited bids on the Taiwan unit ranging from $2.15 billion to $3 billion, according a letter released by the agency in early January.
Analysts cautioned on Wednesday that the sale to Ruen Chen Investment Holding -- which is 80 percent held by the textile and hypermarket conglomerate Ruentex Group and 20 percent by a footwear manufacturer -- could also face regulatory hurdles.
A.I.G., however, expressed confidence that the new agreement would pass muster.
'''The participants in the consortium enjoy an excellent reputation in Taiwan,'' Robert H. Benmosche, the A.I.G. chief executive, said in a statement. ''Ruen Chen offers strong operational and funding capabilities and possesses a clear ability to satisfy the strict criteria that governed A.I.G.'s bid review process. Ruen Chen has demonstrated that it is able and willing to invest in Nan Shan's future.''
In September, A.I.G. sold two Japanese life insurance businesses -- A.I.G. Star Life Insurance and A.I.G. Edison Life Insurance -- to the American insurer Prudential Financial, for a total of $4.8 billion.
The American Life Insurance Company, known as Alico, was sold to MetLife for about $15.5 billion in March, while the listing in Hong Kong of A.I.G.'s Asian life insurance business, American International Assurance, raised $20.5 billion in October.
A.I.G. hired Debevoise & Plimpton and Lee & Li as counsel on the deal.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%); FOOTWEAR MFG (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); TAIWAN LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (83%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (81%); CHINA STRATEGIC HOLDINGS LTD (56%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ASSURANCE CO LTD (52%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (52%); ASIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); 2833 (TAIEX) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 0235 (HKSE) (56%); 1299 (HKSE) (52%); PRU (NYSE) (52%); ALICL (NEP) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



342 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Bond Sale A Success In Portugal

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and RAPHAEL MINDER; David Jolly and Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Portugal won some breathing room Wednesday with a better-than-expected bond auction that fueled a rise in global stock markets and led the government to reaffirm its stance against accepting a bailout.
Analysts cautioned that the sale could be merely a temporary reprieve, saying that the high yield demanded by investors was unsustainable in a country that lacked strong economic growth.
''It still looks like a matter of when, not if, Portugal is bailed out,'' said Richard McGuire, fixed-income strategist at Rabobank in London. ''An interest rate of 6.7 percent is still high for sustainable public financing.''
Portuguese officials disagreed, describing the auction as a success that vindicated their strategy of financing its debt through the markets rather than requesting aid from Europe's financial rescue fund. 
Portugal sold bonds valued at 1.25 billion euros, including 599 million euros maturing in 10 years at an average yield of 6.72 percent.
That yield is below the levels of the previous sale in November, though still high for Portugal's struggling economy. Portugal has passed a variety of austerity measures that include public sector wage cuts, tax increases and a freeze on pension rates.
Last year, both Greece and Ireland were forced to apply for rescue financing within a month of breaching the 7 percent level.
Bond auctions in Spain and Italy on Thursday were expected to provide furthers signs of whether the euro zone debt crisis was temporarily calmed or in danger of spreading to bigger economies. Spain will offer bonds worth 3 billion euros ($3.89 billion), while Italy will offer bonds up to 6 billion euros.
As Portugal gained some respite, European officials increased pressure to expand the size of the rescue fund, saying it would provide a longer-term solution.
The ''financing capacity must be reinforced and the scope of its activities widened,'' Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said Wednesday in Brussels. He added that it was ''perfectly possible'' to come to a decision by Feb. 4, when European Union leaders are scheduled to meet.
Mr. Barroso appeared to be emboldened by the success of the Portuguese debt sale, which allowed him the political space to go on the offensive about the fund after weeks of private discussions about how to defuse the crisis.
The Portuguese auction, coupled with European Union efforts to expand the bailout fund, helped markets rise in the United States and Europe. In Spain, the main stock market index increased 5.4 percent Wednesday, its biggest daily gain since the bailout of Greece last spring.
All the major stock gauges in the United States were up, and the euro rose against the dollar to 1.3132 in late trading.
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos, the Portuguese finance minister, said that his country's bond sale was ''clearly a success.'' He cited not only the high demand -- investors bid for 2.6 to 3 times the number of bonds on offer -- but also the fact that 80 percent of the bonds were bought by foreigners. That would allow the government to continue to ''diversify our investor base,'' he said.
Analysts took the comment as evidence that much of the foreign buying had come from Asia, given recent commitments by Japan and China to help euro zone countries finance their deficits.
Jose Socrates, the prime minister of Portugal, has maintained that his country can meet its 20 billion euros in financing needs this year -- equivalent to 11 percent of its gross domestic product -- without a bailout from its European Union partners or the International Monetary Fund.
''Portugal won't request any financial help for the simple reason that it doesn't need it,'' Mr. Socrates said Tuesday.
Those assurances are likely to be met with further market skepticism, however, especially in light of a forecast on Tuesday from the Portuguese central bank, which said the country would go back into recession this year. A new slump would make it more difficult for the government to close a gaping budget deficit and meet its obligations.
''One auction result doesn't mean the crisis is over,'' said Charles Diebel, a strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. ''It's just one hurdle amongst many.''
European Union officials have been working to prepare emergency loans to Portugal if a rescue becomes necessary. Analysts have said a bailout could require as much as 70 billion euros. Greece received a 110 billion euro rescue package last spring, while Ireland got an 85 billion euro bailout in December.
Vasco d'Orey, an independent Portuguese economist, said the bond auction meant that ''the government is now off the hook in terms of public debt refinancing, at least for the first quarter for sure.'' However, he added, ''the next big hurdle is the refinancing needs of the banking system -- and there I'm really not sure what will happen.''
Should Spain also find strong demand for its bond sale on Thursday, investors' concerns are expected to shift to the financing needs of the banks, which have been shut out of the markets and have a significant exposure to a collapsed real estate market.
Mr. Barroso's push to expand the bailout fund may signal his desire to assume a bigger role in steering the crisis. He has stuck his neck out on the issue before, urging support for Greece last spring before Germany was ready to agree to a bailout.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany appeared to support the principle of strengthening the bailout fund, though she addressed it in the context of bolstering the euro. ''We support whatever is needed to support the euro, also with respect to the rescue fund,'' she said Wednesday at a news briefing in Berlin with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, Bloomberg News reported.
Francois Baroin, the budget minister, speaking for the French government in Paris after a regular meeting of ministers, struck a frostier note, however. ''We consider that the fund as it stands today is sufficiently big to meet requests made by this or that country,'' he said, according to Reuters.
Some governments argue that extending the capacity of the fund sends a signal to the markets that the European Union expects Portugal, and maybe Spain, to call upon it and could therefore be self-defeating. But, after the comments Wednesday, the markets could well react negatively if there is no agreement at the Feb. 4 summit meeting.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the results of a bond auction by Portugal misstated the characteristics of some of the bonds. The sale, valued at 1.25 billion euros, included 599 million euros in bonds maturing in 10 years, not 699 million euros in bonds maturing in five years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lisbon rail workers protested the government's layoff plans and austerity measures Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFAEL MARCHANTE/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); EURO CRISIS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%)

COMPANY: COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



343 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BIDEN HEADS TO PAKISTAN
To Stress Long-Term Ties
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met with top civilian and military leaders in Islamabad, Pakistan, looking to reinforce a strategic partnership with Pakistan and to reassure a nation skeptical of American intentions. PAGE A12
REPORT ON POLISH PLANE CRASH 
A nine-month inquiry into the plane crash in Russia that killed 96 people last April, including Poland's president and dozens of other government officials on board, attributes the crash to pilot error, but it also strongly suggests that the blame extends to some of the pilot's passengers. PAGE A4
National
SURGEON BECOMES FACE
Of Shooting's Aftermath
Dr. Peter Rhee is the chief of trauma at University Medical Center in Tucson. But he has also become the public face of the hospital where Representative Gabrielle Giffords and five other survivors of Saturday's shooting rampage are slowly recovering. And he has taken on the role with gusto, acting as a booster for both the hospital and Tucson itself. PAGE A17
NEW CLUES IN COLD CASE
An article that appeared in the Concordia Sentinel, a small newspaper in the Louisiana delta, may have uncovered key pieces of an unsolved civil rights murder, one of a handful being investigated by the F.B.I. and journalists in which someone believed to be connected to the episode is still alive. PAGE A19
New York
IN-HOME CARE APPROVAL
Wasn't Fraud, City Says
After federal prosecutors brought a civil fraud lawsuit accusing the New York City government of using the bureaucracy to run its own Medicaid mill, the city said it had not been cavalier in approving home care. In the minds of some advocates for the aged and disabled, the lawsuit raised new questions about health policy, just as government is expanding health care. Page A21
Business
OFFICIALS URGE BROADENING
Of Euro Zone Bailout Fund
Portugal won some breathing room with a better-than-expected bond auction that led the government to reaffirm its stance against accepting a bailout. But European officials increased pressure to expand the size of the economic rescue fund, saying it would provide a longer-term solution. PAGE B1
COOLING EMERGING MARKETS
The recent declines in less established and more volatile Asian stock markets, which surged last year as foreign investors bet on their fast growth, illustrate that despite their long-term potential, these fast-growing countries still face numerous challenges. PAGE B1
LAWSUIT OVER DRUG BUYBACK
An effort by Johnson & Johnson to buy back defective Motrin pills from store shelves has come under fire in a lawsuit filed by the State of Oregon, which suggests that the problems with those Motrin pills were wider than previously known to the public. PAGE B3
Sports
CONFERENCE CALLS GIVE
N.F.L. Writers a Chance
During weekly conference calls with reporters, N.F.L. head coaches and players answer questions via telephone while reporters on the other end hope for something more than predictable cliches. Page B12.
Arts
THE PARTY IS BACK ON
As Award Season Heats Up
After shrinking budgets dulled last year's award season, a better economy and a looser race has Hollywood reverting to its old ways as contenders jockey for attention in advance of the Golden Globes and Oscars. Page C1.
Home
SEALING THOSE LEAKS
To Keep in the Heat
Plugging the leaks in your home, which can be done via weatherstripping, a rubber door sweep or a programmable thermostat, can save more than $150 in heating oil annually. Bob Tedeschi, The Pragmatist. Page D1.
Styles
REBUILDING SALES AND BUZZ
Is New Editor's Top Task
The new editor at Lucky magazine, Brandon Holley, has been asked to remake a publication that has suffered a decline in ad pages and newsstand sales and has an absence of buzz. Page E1.
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WRITERS (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MURDER (76%); MEDICAID (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); BONDS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); EURO CRISIS (67%); HOME HEALTH CARE (67%); EURO ZONE (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); CITIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); BOND MARKETS (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (90%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



344 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Notes Signs Of Improving Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The United States economy ended last year on an encouraging note, with all parts of the country showing improvements, according to the latest Federal Reserve survey.
Factories produced more, shoppers spent more and companies hired more, all of which pointed to a stronger economy in 2011, the Fed reported in its survey of nationwide economic conditions, which was released on Wednesday.
Still, risks loom. Declining home prices and millions of foreclosures are depressing housing markets around the country, the survey said. 
Companies are also paying more for materials, including oil, food products, steel, textiles and chemicals, the survey noted. However, competitive pressures prevented the companies from passing those increased costs on to customers with higher prices.
And even though employers are slowly hiring more, workers lack bargaining power to win bigger paychecks because of high unemployment.
Price increases remained tame. The Fed will monitor inflation as it reviews its $600 billion Treasury bond-buying program, which is intended to bolster the economy by lowering interest rates, encouraging spending and lifting stock prices.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has been optimistic that the economy will strengthen this year, but warned last week that it would take up to five years for unemployment, now at 9.4 percent, to drop to a historically normal level of around 6 percent.
The bond-buying program will come under scrutiny at the Fed's first meeting of 2011, on Jan. 25 and 26. Four regional Fed presidents become voting members of the its policy-making group at that meeting. Two of them -- Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia -- have voiced concerns that the bond-buying program could spur inflation.
Mr. Fisher and Mr. Plosser have reputations for being ''inflation hawks,'' meaning they are more concerned about the prospects of rising inflation than they are about high unemployment. Both men are likely to put pressure on Mr. Bernanke to scale back the $600 billion program, especially later this year if the economy continues to gain momentum as expected.
The Fed indicated there would be a high hurdle to changing the program, according to minutes from its Dec. 14 meeting. Mr. Bernanke offered no signals that any changes would be forthcoming when he testified before Congress last Friday.
The Fed survey also said:
Hiring was firming, and businesses in most regions planned to increase hiring at the same or faster rate this year.
Retailers across all regions experienced better-than-expected sales after a strong holiday shopping season.
Factories across the country increased production, with demand growing for cars and high-tech equipment.
Businesses said they no longer feared there would be a double-dip recession. In a summer survey, many expressed concerns of a second downturn.
Economists have said that a tax-cut package signed into law last month should encourage people and businesses to spend more this year, leading, in turn, to more hiring.
Mr. Bernanke has warned Congress and the White House to refrain from big spending cuts or tax increases in the near term because the economy is still fragile. But he has urged them to come up with a plan now to reduce the budget deficit over the long run.
The government ran a budget deficit of $80 billion last month, down from a year earlier, the Treasury Department said on Wednesday. Still, economists predict the government will run up a deficit of about $1.3 trillion in the current fiscal year. That would be the third consecutive year of deficits exceeding $1 trillion.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Most Regions Experience Modest Growth: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before Jan. 3. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BONDS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); TEXTILES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX RELIEF (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



345 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Biden Meets With Pakistani Leaders, Stressing Long-Term Ties and Extremist Threat

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and CARLOTTA GALL

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met for talks here on Wednesday with top civilian and military leaders, looking to reinforce a strategic partnership with Pakistan and to reassure a skeptical nation of American intentions.
It was Mr. Biden's first trip to Pakistan as vice president, intended to signal both the United States' unbroken commitment after the sudden death in December of Richard C. Holbrooke, the special envoy to the region, and its high-level concern.
As American officials have for months, Mr. Biden was likely to use the occasion to push the Pakistani military for operations in North Waziristan, where insurgents run a virtual ministate, training militants and organizing attacks against NATO forces in Afghanistan. 
Pakistani officials say they want to undertake the offensive when they choose, but for American officials, looking to lock in tentative gains in Afghanistan, time is of the essence.
Largely successful American operations this fall in southern Afghanistan pushed many Taliban across the border to Baluchistan Province in Pakistan. American officials will now be seeking Pakistani cooperation in preventing the Taliban from returning to Afghanistan to fight in the spring.
But Mr. Biden's public remarks indicated that he also wanted to continue to shift relations to a broader, longer-term agenda, including economic assistance, and to move the two countries away from what he described as a ''transactional'' relationship.
Flanked by Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, Mr. Biden sought to dispel what he described as misconceptions about the United States in Pakistan, including that it was anti-Islam. He dismissed notions that the United States wanted to dismantle or weaken Pakistan and that it favored India, Pakistan's archrival. He emphasized that the United States would not abandon the country, as many Pakistanis feel it did in the past.
He underscored the threat of extremism and rebuffed criticism that the United States was violating Pakistani sovereignty, saying it was instead groups like Al Qaeda that had done so. Pakistan and the United States have forged a partnership against extreme ideologies, he said.
''Our relationship, in my view and the view of President Obama, is absolutely vital, absolutely vital, to the interest of the United States, and I believe you believe it is vital to the Pakistani interest as well,'' Mr. Biden said in remarks to reporters broadcast live on state-run television.
''There are those who accuse the United States of violating your sovereignty,'' he added. ''I respectfully suggest that it is the extremists who violate Pakistan's sovereignty and corrupt its good name.''
He said the United States would work with Pakistani leaders ''to restore and strengthen sovereignty in those areas of the country where extremists had violated it.''
The only productive way forward for the United States and Pakistan, he said, is ''a long-term, enduring partnership.''
The White House's strategic review of policy in December made particular mention of the need for Pakistan to do more to eliminate havens for extremist groups. American strikes by drones, which have provoked popular outcries in Pakistan over its sovereignty, have degraded Al Qaeda, but progress remains uneven, the review said. ''Furthermore,'' it stated, ''the denial of extremist safe havens cannot be achieved with military means alone, but must continue to be advanced by effective development strategies.''
The competing forces squeezing Pakistan were on full display on Wednesday. Eighteen people were killed when a suicide bomber in a district adjacent to North Waziristan rammed a vehicle packed with explosives into a mosque during evening prayers, according to a security official.
Meanwhile, an American drone fired two missiles into a compound in Mirali, in North Waziristan, killing five people believed to be militants, a local official said. Given the success of the drone strikes in North Waziristan, Mr. Biden may also push to expand their use.
The vice president took no questions, saying he was late for a meeting with the country's army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, the director general of the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate, was expected to attend.
Earlier in the day, Mr. Biden met with President Asif Ali Zardari. ''The atmosphere of the meeting was good,'' said Farahnaz Ispahani, media adviser to Mr. Zardari, who was present then.
Mr. Biden said he had made a telephone call to express condolences to Aamna Taseer, the wife of the Punjab governor, Salman Taseer, who was assassinated by a religious extremist on Jan. 4. ''Societies that tolerate such actions end up being consumed by those actions,'' he warned.
Mr. Zardari, in turn, expressed hopes for an early recovery for Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona, who remained in critical condition after being shot in Tucson on Saturday.
After a week in which economic reforms all but collapsed as the prime minister sought to hold together his coalition government, Mr. Biden and Mr. Zardari also discussed the economy. However, Ms. Ispahani said Mr. Biden announced no concrete aid package before he left for Baghdad, where he touched down early Thursday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. after meeting on Wednesday with Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, just left of him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



346 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Paris Considers a Ban on S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: NICK KURCZEWSKI


HIGHLIGHT: Transportation ministers have expressed a desire to outlaw the large passenger vehicles, along with older, high-polluting diesel cars, from the city center.

 BODY:
The City of Light could soon become the city without S.U.V.'s.
Government officials in Paris are considering putting in effect a series of regulations that would heavily tax, or completely ban, S.U.V.'s and high-polluting, old diesel vehicles from entering the city center.
Details of the proposed plan -- the hours during which charges would apply, the fee amount and the charge-zone boundaries, for starters -- are still being determined.
Many modern S.U.V.'s are built with the same engines and transmissions found in sedans and crossover vehicles. A car technically classified a subcompact but fitted with a high-horsepower gasoline engine could be allowed a free pass, despite polluting more than a cleaner-running but larger S.U.V. Therefore, a blanket ban seems unlikely. The objective of any proposed legislation seems primarily intended to alleviate urban congestion, no matter the type of vehicle.
Such unknows nevertheless have not stopped French politicians from taking aim. "I'm sorry, but having a sport utility vehicle in a city makes no sense," said Denis Baupin, deputy mayor of Paris, in an interview with RTL radio from December. "Sell it and buy a vehicle that's compatible with city life," Mr. Baupin advised owners of high-polluting vehicles. This could include old diesels, whose carbon emissions were notoriously higher before more stringent emissions standards took effect.
"'Old diesel' is really hard to define," says Francois Roudier, vice president of communications for the Paris-based Comite des Constructeurs Francais. While the C.C.F.A. is not directly associated with laying groundwork for Paris' proposal, Mr. Roudier says such programs are inherently complicated and politically charged. A ban on older diesels, for example, could be construed as being unfair to people unable to afford a new vehicle.
For their part, French car manufacturers appear ready to discuss the proposal -- though many admit the details remain too undefined for specific comment. "First discussions will begin at the end of this month between carmakers and French authorities," said Raphaelle Gomez, a spokeswoman for Renault, in an e-mail. "It is too early now for a stance of Renault on that topic."
Unlike in the United States, S.U.V.'s have never played a vital sales role in the lineup of French manufacturers. "We are not really a major player in that market," explains Anouk van Vliet, spokeswoman for Citroen. Throughout 2011 and 2012, Citroen and its partner brand, Peugeot, will introduce a new diesel-hybrid drivetrain. The Peugeot 3008 hybrid crossover, on sale in Europe later this year, might cut a small S.U.V.'s profile, but its estimated 62-miles-per-gallon efficiency would shame most economy cars.
Not surprisingly, support for the proposal is strongest with companies specializing in electric power. Gildo Pastor, chief executive of Monaco-based Venturi Automobiles, refers to the proposal as "the ideal condition for the fast deployment of E.V. in France." Venturi presently builds electric-powered delivery vans for the French postal service, though the company is best known for its $390,000 electric-powered sports car, the Fetish.
Other French cities, including Grenoble, Lyon and Aix-en-Provence are prepared to follow Paris' lead to reduce traffic and pollution through some form of congestion charge. Similar systems have been enacted in London, Singapore and Berlin, with varying fees and restrictions based on vehicle and driving time. New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg considered a similar charge plan to make the city more environmentally friendly, but the plan proved highly contentious and was not enacted.

        
Start-Stop Technology: Not Just for Hybrids Anymore
        
Death and Life of a Fiat Rumor
        
A Car Show in Paris That Oozes Charm
        
Citroen's Funky New Addition to Paris
        
Vive la Tin Snail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CITIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); POLITICS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LEGISLATION (69%) Citroen; diesel; paris; peugeot; S.U.V.; Automobiles; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Peugeot SA; Renault SA; Paris (France); Peugeot SA|PEUGY|other-OTC; Environment

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Peugeot SA; Renault SA

TICKER: UG (PAR) (85%) Peugeot SA; PEUGY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%) FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



347 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Public Editor's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Hanging On as the Boundaries Shift

BYLINE: ARTHUR S. BRISBANE


HIGHLIGHT: Readers weigh in with their thoughts to the Public Editor's most recent column, Hanging On as the Boundaries Shift.

 BODY:
Here is some reader response via e-mail to my most recent column from last Sunday, Hanging On as the Boundaries Shift.
I have to disagree with your take on the appearance of bias created by news analysis running in news sections, as you described on the editorial page today.
Frankly, I find news analysis pieces to be the most useful and insightful articles printed in the Times. I understand your point that they are not reporting straight facts. But neither are they opinion pieces. Interpretation and insight of current events is one of the primary things that for me distinguishes the Times from, say, Reuters. Anyway, the he-said she-said style of reporting that's found in typical non-analysis news articles--yes, even in the Times--leads to an underlying bias that is no less real than that of the analysis pieces. And the regular news, of course, isn't labeled to admit bias in the way that analysis is.
One point worth looking at, though--I read the Times on my Kindle on the Kindle edition does not label the analysis pieces as clearly as does the print edition.Max NortonNevada City, Calif.
I agree with Times reader Sheila Markin, who you quoted in your column objecting to an new analysis/opinion piece published on page one of the paper. There ought to be a clear physical delineation between editorial and news content in The Times (and all newspapers).
I look to The Times for the most objective, the most accurate, the most astute news coverage, analysis and editorial opinions. I believe that most often I get this. As with any human endeavor mistakes are made. I believe The Times expends considerable worthwhile energy striving to be accurate and objective in its news coverage, and it can do better. I hope it is capable and devotes energy to slowing down-to get it right, and timely. I note that today its coverage of the terrible tragic shootings in Arizona appears to be excellent and thorough.
I hope you have effective and genuine input as The Times readers' representative. It's important that an important entity such as The Times listen to its customers, especially in the case of a newspaper of the power, influence and capabilities as The Times.
I applaud The Times reporting on the Wikileaks releases. It was thoughtful, thorough and enlightening.
I disagree with The Times decision to publish the names of the very young children named in the civil suit you mentioned in your Jan. 9th column. Just because the children's names were published or broadcast elsewhere doesn't, and shouldn't, give cover to The Times to publish their names. I want to have The Times adhere to a higher standard of appropriate, compassionate and thoughtful behavior.
On a related note, I have little, if any, problem with The Times publishing what some people may call gruesome or even disgusting photos of war dead, which may be different than showing natural disaster photos. Responsible and appropriate truth-telling comes in many forms. Showing the effects of war on its combatants for the 'home front' to see and know about; knowing the names of young children involved in a civil suit is unnecessary and serves no valuable purpose, as far as I can tell.Bruce SternSan Rafael, Calif.
There are boundaries at the NYT. However, the phrase "...most importantof American newspapers." is a boundary that unfortunately represents aself inflated one. It indicates that the only boundary the NYT operates"within" is that of an overblown one it creates for itself. "MostImportant" is often a term of the need to excuse a decline.Ted BaldanziMorristown, N.J.
As an historian whose professional life has been devoted to an effort to report about the past as fairly and fully as possible in my many publications, the opening paragraphs of your column in today's (January 9) paper trouble me. In your commitment to what you take to be reportorial objectivity, you seem to mistake stenography for journalism. That is what the following paragraph in the column about David Leonhardt's story covering the debate on national health insurance suggests. "I have no problem with Mr. Leonhardt's analysis;" you write; "he's an accomplished economics writer and is entitled to his view. It was The Times's decision to place it on Page 1 that posed the difficulty, sending the message that The Times's take on health care is synonymous with Mr. Leonhardt's, which some see as progressive or liberal."
What journalistic sin did Mr. Leonhardt and the Times commit by placing his story on p. 1? Leonhardt wrote his story as a serious journalist committed to edifying readers about the substance of the debate about government policies on health insurance. He reported the positions of both supporters and opponents of the recently enacted law, and then he subjected the talking points of both sides to rigorous economic analysis, pointing out their respective strengths and weaknesses. Surely, Mr. Leonhardt has his own beliefs and personal preferences, as does everyone who writes for the Times and, like me, who writes history, and no matter how hard he and I might try, we cannot completely separate our journalism or history from who we are and what me may believe. As I read what Mr. Leonhardt writes not just about health care but on economics generally and mostly in the business pages, I fail to see how others can reflexively characterize his writings as "progressive or liberal" unless they believe one of two things, either that journalists simply report verbatim the statements and opinions of those they interview or research without comment, or believe that their own opinions are the only correct ones. Did Linda Greenhouse, the finest legal and Supreme Court reporter of the recent era, violate journalistic ethics along with her employer, when the Times placed some of her extremely acute analyses of judicial rulings on the front page? Does Adam Liptak commit comparable sins in his current, often front-page stories on the federal courts?
Melvyn DubofskyAlbuquerque, N.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (77%); CHILDREN (60%); LITIGATION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%) Letters to the P.E.

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011



348 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Auditors See Rising Defaults In Rural Loans

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Seeking to buoy a strained rural economy in the midst of the recession, Congress ordered up a huge increase in federal mortgage guarantees for small-town home buyers as part of the 2009 economic stimulus package.
The response from lenders was immediate. The value of federally backed rural home loans soared to $16.2 billion in fiscal 2009, up from just $3.7 billion two years earlier. Last year, the guarantees reached nearly $16.8 billion.
Now, a newly released audit has found that the rural loan program, administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, was plagued by lax government oversight and many of the same sloppy banking practices that fed the broader mortgage debacle.
Although the auditors looked at only a tiny sample of the 133,053 loan guarantees made in 2009, they estimated that tens of thousands might have been done improperly and warned that a wave of defaults might be looming. 
Analysts said the problems echoed those exposed earlier in the mortgage crisis, with banks seemingly eager to collect fees for loans in which they retained little or no risk.
''In a couple years, when these loans are going bad, everybody's going to say, 'Oh me, oh my, how did this happen?' '' said Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, a bank rating and consulting firm. ''There's no surprises here.''
While U.S.D.A. officials acknowledged that there had been some problems, they said the program had achieved the goals of the stimulus.
''We're very confident that the overall objective of the recovery act was met,'' said Tammye H. Trevino, the administrator of the Rural Housing Service, which runs the program. ''At a time when new-home construction and home sales in rural America were struggling, we continued to make loans.''
The audit estimated that more than 10 percent of the loans made possible through the program might have been to borrowers who were not eligible because they did not meet the minimum financial requirements and might not have had the means to pay them back. In many instances, lenders improperly calculated income figures for borrowers. The audit, released last week by the office of the U.S.D.A. inspector general, Phyllis K. Fong, also found that U.S.D.A. officials failed to detect the errors.
The report did not say whether any lenders appeared to have intentionally skirted the rules.
The audit looked at 100 randomly selected loans. That is a very small statistical sample, but the auditors deemed their findings, which they said were preliminary, significant enough to require immediate attention.
The results looked very familiar to Tommy Duncan, executive vice president of Quality Mortgage Services, a Tennessee company that reviews hundreds of mortgages each year for banks that participate in the guarantee program. ''Rural housing needs help in closing the gaps in underwriting,'' Mr. Duncan said.
The auditors reported that 18 of the loans they examined were made to borrowers whose income or work history was either clearly insufficient to qualify or questionable enough that it could put their ability to repay at risk. Eight of those borrowers had already fallen behind in payments, the auditors said, including one that had defaulted on an $80,000 mortgage.
The loan guarantees are intended for low- and moderate-income borrowers, but they must still show that they have sufficient income to repay the loans.
In a written response to the audit, the U.S.D.A. acknowledged the need for improvements, although in the majority of cases, it said, the auditors were incorrect in concluding that borrowers should not have qualified for loans. The agency said it had previously made changes to address similar problems.
In an interview, Ms. Trevino said that lenders in the program, which included both large national banks and small institutions in rural communities, had not meant to break the rules. ''I don't believe there is any intent by anyone to defraud the government and give a loan to someone who is ineligible,'' she said. ''A lender by nature is going to be conservative when he's doing income calculations.''
The huge increase in loan guarantees occurred almost overnight, as the agency rushed to approve loans on the hurry-up timetable of the stimulus program, whose broader goal was to give a rapid boost to the economy. The rural program focused on communities with populations under 20,000 that were outside metropolitan areas. The loans required no down payment.
But the growth strained the capacity of the Rural Housing Service to monitor the loans. ''I think it's fair to say that staff has been stretched in the last year or so with the increase in production,'' Ms. Trevino said.
The foreclosure rate for the U.S.D.A.'s portfolio of guaranteed mortgages rose to 2.25 percent in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. The year before, the rate was 1.72 percent, and in 2007, it was 1.38 percent.
The agency was quick to point out that its foreclosure rate was lower than the rate for loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, a similar but much larger program that covers all areas of the country, not just small towns or rural communities. The F.H.A.'s foreclosure rate in 2009 was 3.32 percent, up from 2.32 percent a year earlier. The F.H.A. has not yet released final data for last year; in the third quarter the rate was 3.22 percent.
Until recently, the rural housing guarantee program was financed through fees charged to lenders and with tax money. Last year, Congress passed a law intended to make the agency self-supporting. It allowed the agency to increase the fees it charged so that it could operate without using taxpayer money. An increase in defaults could force it to increase fees further, however.
The audit identified numerous additional problems with the program.
The auditors said that as many as one in six borrowers who received guaranteed loans should have been ineligible because their income was too high to qualify for the subsidy. Those borrowers may have prevented needier applicants from receiving guarantees.
In three cases, the audit found that buyers used guaranteed loans to buy homes with above-ground swimming pools, even though Congress prohibited stimulus money from being spent on pools. A U.S.D.A. spokesman said that those three loans had already been shifted to guarantees not linked to stimulus money.
The loan guarantee program was financed with $133 million in stimulus money, which was meant for administrative costs and reserves against potential defaults related to 81,000 loans.
The problems at the Rural Housing Service mirror those in other government housing programs. The portfolio of the F.H.A., which encourages banks to make low-cost loans to working-class families by insuring the lenders against loss, increased sharply in the early years of the bust. The agency served, in essence, as the lender of last resort as private mortgages became more difficult to get.
F.H.A. default rates are now falling, but the absolute numbers are rising as the loan portfolio continues to expand to nearly seven million. More than half a million F.H.A. loans are in default -- a number that analysts think will swell if the real estate market turns down again or if the job market does not recover.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tammye H. Trevino, the administrator of the Rural Housing Service, said the program had some problems but it achieved its goals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUDITS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOUSING STARTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



349 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: A Tale Of Two Moralities

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Wednesday, President Obama called on Americans to ''expand our moral imaginations, to listen to each other more carefully, to sharpen our instincts for empathy, and remind ourselves of all the ways our hopes and dreams are bound together.'' Those were beautiful words; they spoke to our desire for reconciliation.
But the truth is that we are a deeply divided nation and are likely to remain one for a long time. By all means, let's listen to each other more carefully; but what we'll discover, I fear, is how far apart we are. For the great divide in our politics isn't really about pragmatic issues, about which policies work best; it's about differences in those very moral imaginations Mr. Obama urges us to expand, about divergent beliefs over what constitutes justice. 
And the real challenge we face is not how to resolve our differences -- something that won't happen any time soon -- but how to keep the expression of those differences within bounds.
What are the differences I'm talking about?
One side of American politics considers the modern welfare state -- a private-enterprise economy, but one in which society's winners are taxed to pay for a social safety net -- morally superior to the capitalism red in tooth and claw we had before the New Deal. It's only right, this side believes, for the affluent to help the less fortunate.
The other side believes that people have a right to keep what they earn, and that taxing them to support others, no matter how needy, amounts to theft. That's what lies behind the modern right's fondness for violent rhetoric: many activists on the right really do see taxes and regulation as tyrannical impositions on their liberty.
There's no middle ground between these views. One side saw health reform, with its subsidized extension of coverage to the uninsured, as fulfilling a moral imperative: wealthy nations, it believed, have an obligation to provide all their citizens with essential care. The other side saw the same reform as a moral outrage, an assault on the right of Americans to spend their money as they choose.
This deep divide in American political morality -- for that's what it amounts to -- is a relatively recent development. Commentators who pine for the days of civility and bipartisanship are, whether they realize it or not, pining for the days when the Republican Party accepted the legitimacy of the welfare state, and was even willing to contemplate expanding it. As many analysts have noted, the Obama health reform -- whose passage was met with vandalism and death threats against members of Congress -- was modeled on Republican plans from the 1990s.
But that was then. Today's G.O.P. sees much of what the modern federal government does as illegitimate; today's Democratic Party does not. When people talk about partisan differences, they often seem to be implying that these differences are petty, matters that could be resolved with a bit of good will. But what we're talking about here is a fundamental disagreement about the proper role of government.
Regular readers know which side of that divide I'm on. In future columns I will no doubt spend a lot of time pointing out the hypocrisy and logical fallacies of the ''I earned it and I have the right to keep it'' crowd. And I'll also have a lot to say about how far we really are from being a society of equal opportunity, in which success depends solely on one's own efforts.
But the question for now is what we can agree on given this deep national divide.
In a way, politics as a whole now resembles the longstanding politics of abortion -- a subject that puts fundamental values at odds, in which each side believes that the other side is morally in the wrong. Almost 38 years have passed since Roe v. Wade, and this dispute is no closer to resolution.
Yet we have, for the most part, managed to agree on certain ground rules in the abortion controversy: it's acceptable to express your opinion and to criticize the other side, but it's not acceptable either to engage in violence or to encourage others to do so.
What we need now is an extension of those ground rules to the wider national debate.
Right now, each side in that debate passionately believes that the other side is wrong. And it's all right for them to say that. What's not acceptable is the kind of violence and eliminationist rhetoric encouraging violence that has become all too common these past two years.
It's not enough to appeal to the better angels of our nature. We need to have leaders of both parties -- or Mr. Obama alone if necessary -- declare that both violence and any language hinting at the acceptability of violence are out of bounds. We all want reconciliation, but the road to that goal begins with an agreement that our differences will be settled by the rule of law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); VANDALISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



350 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Talking to North Korea

 BODY:
After two years of threats and attacks, North Korea may be pulling back from the brink. Or not. North Korea's leadership is so erratic -- it's not even clear who is in charge right now -- that it is impossible to tell.
There are a few hopeful signs. On Monday, the North formally invited South Korea to talks on economic ties. On Wednesday, for the first time in seven months, the North used a diplomatic hot line to call the South. 
The North's main patron, China, has also been pushing for a resumption of the six-party talks that the big powers and North Korea's neighbors say are intended to end the North's nuclear program. (The North walked out of the last round in 2008.)
North Korea has a long history of making promises, collecting economic rewards and then failing to deliver -- or manufacturing crises and demanding more payoffs in return for calming tensions. The United States, South Korea and Japan are understandably reluctant to get fooled again.
But recent events, including the shelling of a South Korean island, have been so alarming that the Obama administration has now decided to nudge the South back to bilateral talks. American officials are also considering their own bilateral dialogue with the North and an eventual return to six-party talks.
These moves are necessary. But there is also a real danger that the North Korean government will misread any opening as weakness and an invitation to act out even more. The only country with any chance of getting through is China, the North's main supplier of food and fuel. Beijing needs to end its cynical diplomacy-as-usual and use all of its influence to ensure that Pyongyang arrives at the table ready to deal.
Since taking office, President Obama has practiced what aides call ''strategic patience'' when it comes to the North. He promised engagement, tightened sanctions, strengthened regional alliances and waited for the North to return to serious denuclearization talks.
The North has only gotten more belligerent. It expelled nuclear monitors, conducted a second nuclear test and ginned up production of nuclear fuel. In March, it torpedoed a South Korean navy ship, killing 46 sailors; in November, four South Koreans were killed during the shelling of Yeonpyeong Island. Seoul has reacted with extraordinary restraint, but the risk of a wider confrontation grows with each incident.
American officials say that Chinese leaders have recently tried to get North Korea to back away from confrontation. But how much pressure China -- which fears a collapse of the North above all else -- is prepared to bring is anyone's guess.
When President Obama and President Hu Jintao of China meet next week in Washington, this must be one of the top items on their agenda. Mr. Obama will have to forcefully argue the case that an erratic neighbor armed with nuclear weapons is anything but a recipe for the stability Beijing so prizes, or for an American military drawdown in the region.
The United States, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia need to vigilantly enforce sanctions on North Korea and find new ways to increase the pressure. It also makes sense to test the North's intentions, so long as Washington and its allies go in with their eyes open.
Let's be clear. Getting the North to give up its nuclear program is a very long shot. But two years of stalemate have only made things more dangerous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); HU JINTAO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



351 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Uncle Sam Wants His AAA

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Is Wall Street listening to the Tea Party?
Two major credit ratings agencies warned Thursday that the United States might tarnish its triple-A credit rating if its national debt kept growing.
It was not the first time the agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, warned that the nation's gilt-edged rating might fall into jeopardy.
But the two statements, made within hours of each other, were seized on by deficit hawks as further evidence that the government must reduce spending and debt to avert disaster. That is just what many Tea Party supporters insist. 
But many economists say the reckoning, if it comes, is still years or even decades away.
The bond market shrugged at Thursday's news. Indeed, even some experts who want to see the deficit reduced said now is not the time to cut federal spending drastically, given the weakness in the economy and high unemployment.
But others see the mounting national debt as a potential danger. What once seemed unthinkable -- that one day the United States government would no longer be accorded the highest credit rating -- is now not only thinkable, but increasingly probable.
''I am concerned about the unsustainability of our long-term situation,'' said Peter G. Peterson, a co-founder of the Blackstone Group and a prominent deficit critic.
In a quarterly report on the nation's credit risk, Moody's said there was an increasing probability of revising its outlook on its Aaa rating for the United States to negative from stable within the next two years if no action were taken.
That stops well short of actually reducing the rating. But even a small revision, if it comes, would probably rattle the financial markets and might even hamper America's ability to borrow the money it needs to finance its deficit.
Moody's has been rating United States government debt since 1917, and has always rated it Aaa.
Only once, in 1996, did the agency put some United States debt on review for possible downgrade -- a much stronger step than a negative outlook. That was after Republicans refused to vote to increase the debt ceiling.
That debate is being repeated now in Washington, where the Obama administration is warning that the government could reach its legal borrowing limit within a few months. The administration is urging Congress to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a default.
Moody's statement on Thursday was a repeat of a warning it had issued for the first time in December, after the Obama administration's $858 billion deal with Congressional Republicans to extend the Bush-era tax cuts.
That compromise was likely to act as a stimulus on economic growth -- indeed Moody's raised its forecast for growth this year -- but on balance it worsened the nation's finances, the agency said.
Moody's also cited the failure to adopt the ambitious measures proposed last year by President Obama's bipartisan commission on debt reduction to shave $4 trillion from projected deficits over the coming decade.
''The U.S. is going in exactly the opposite direction from fiscal consolidation,'' said Steven Hess, one of the authors of the Moody's report. ''In fact, they are going for more stimulus to the economy.''
Separately, S.& P. analysts, speaking at a conference for financial reporters in Paris, said that America's fiscal condition had worsened in recent months.
''We can't rule out the possibility that maybe one day we might have to change the outlook,'' Carol Sirou, head of the agency's French office, was quoted by Dow Jones Newswires as saying.
An S.& P. spokesman in New York confirmed the statement but backtracked slightly, saying that Ms. Sirou's view had been nothing new. She was referring to comments made by another Standard & Poor's official last year, John B. Chambers, chairman of the agency's sovereign ratings committee, when he had warned that no triple-A rating was forever.
The spokesman, David Wargin, said it was ''merely coincidental'' that Standard & Poor's pronounced on United States debt on the same day the Moody's report came out.
In one of its own recent reports, S.& P. emphasized the ''growing economic, fiscal, and protectionism risks'' of the United States but said it was maintaining its strong AAA rating on the country.
The Moody's report also raised worries about other countries, like Britain, Germany and France.
But though those countries were taking steps in various degree to improve their fiscal positions, the United States had so far failed to do so. ''We therefore retain stable outlooks on these countries ratings, although there are questions about the willingness of the U.S. to take the necessary steps,'' Moody's said in its report.
It said ''the medium-term trajectory for the deficit and debt ratios continues to present a worsening picture.''
For some economists, the failure to rein in the deficit now could spell trouble, not immediately but in 10 or 20 years.
Mr. Peterson said aggressive government spending was warranted in the short run to stimulate the economy. But once growth returns, spending must be cut drastically, he said. Otherwise the nation's debt will explode in coming decades, as an aging population reduces the number of taxpayers and increases public costs on services like health care.
For other critics, however, the dangers seem more imminent.
''There is a significant risk that we can lose the confidence of our foreign investors within the next two years,'' said David M. Walker, former United States comptroller general and founder and chief executive of Comeback America Initiative, an organization devoted to improving the country's financial standing.
He criticized the rating agencies for underplaying the threat.
''Unless we make some tough choices sooner rather than later, then it's only a matter of time before interest rates go up significantly and the dollar takes a significant hit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter G. Peterson, a co-founder of the Blackstone Group and a deficit critic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (85%); BX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); PETE PETERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



352 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: With More Luxury Lines in City, Cruise Passengers' Spending Rises 54%

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Judging by the amount of pomp and circumstance that city officials lavished on the Cunard Line on Thursday, an observer might guess that the cruise industry had become a critical part of New York's tourism industry.
In fact, cruise passengers still account for a tiny fraction of the annual spending by tourists. But their contribution is growing fast, according to estimates released Thursday by the city's Economic Development Corporation.
All told, they spent about $145 million in the city last year, up 54 percent from 2009, said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the development corporation. That amounted to about $247 per passenger, the development corporation's latest survey found. 
Mr. Pinsky said some of the gains resulted from the arrival of ''a number of luxury lines that hadn't previously called on New York.'' He said cruise passengers spent about $70 million in the city's hotels and about $20 million in its restaurants and bars last year. City officials estimated that tourism in all its forms brought about $30 billion into the city last year.
Altogether, the numbers indicate that the recession had little effect on the city's cruise business, which drew more of its customers from outside the New York metropolitan region. About four-fifths of all passengers leaving on cruises from the city last year came from outside the metropolitan region, up from about two-thirds in 2009, according to the city's survey.
The backdrop for the release of the statistics was a celebration of the first visit by Cunard's newest ocean liner, the Queen Elizabeth. The company arranged for that ship to join two others, the Queen Mary 2 and the Queen Victoria, in departing from New York Harbor on Thursday night, punctuated by a fireworks display as they passed the Statue of Liberty.
A proclamation signed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared Thursday ''Cunard Royal Rendezvous Day''; the Empire State Building was lighted red, Cunard's corporate color; and a bell from the original Queen Elizabeth was used as the closing bell on the New York Stock Exchange.
The event was similar to a rendezvous of three Cunard ships in 2008, but this time the new Queen Elizabeth, which was launched last year, replaced the Queen Elizabeth 2, which was retired to become a hotel in Dubai.
Cities do not traditionally spend a lot of time and money courting cruise passengers, who, like air travelers switching planes at Kennedy International Airport, are often in town for no more than a few hours. But Mr. Pinsky said his agency's survey showed that most people getting on and off cruise ships in New York spent at least two nights in the city.
The city's tourism marketing arm, NYC & Company, hopes to stretch out those stays by promoting the city's attractions to cruise passengers. George Fertitta, the chief executive of NYC & Company, said Cunard had agreed to show a videotaped welcome from the mayor and one of the city's tourism advertisements to all passengers arriving in New York.
Cunard's well-to-do passengers are particularly inclined to spend some time in the city, said Peter Shanks, president of Cunard Line. He said most of them spent two or three nights in the city either before or after their cruises.
''We have a wonderful relationship with the Waldorf,'' Mr. Shanks said, referring to the Waldorf-Astoria on Park Avenue, one of the city's more expensive hotels.
Mr. Shanks shared his view that New York ''is probably the perfect place to go'' on a cruise ship -- although he gave top billing to Sydney.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Queen Victoria, above, joined two other Cunard Line luxury cruise ships, the Queen Elizabeth and the Queen Mary 2, on Thursday night in New York Harbor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TOURISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); LODGING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



353 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Filings Rise, And Trade Deficit Narrows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Economic data released Thursday showed an increase in jobless filings last week, an unexpected narrowing of the trade deficit in November and a sharp rise in wholesale prices in December. 
The Labor Department said that more people applied for unemployment benefits last week after retailers shed temporary holiday employees.
The number of people seeking benefits jumped by 35,000 to a seasonally adjusted 445,000 for the week ending Jan. 8. It was the highest level since late October. The spike pushed up the four-week average, a less volatile measure, to 416,500. The average had fallen to a two-year low the previous week.
In another report, the Commerce Department said America's trade deficit edged down to the lowest point in 10 months as exports, helped by a weaker dollar and rising foreign demand, climbed to the highest level in more than two years.
The trade deficit narrowed to $38.3 billion in November, down 0.3 percent from October's revised $38.4 billion deficit.
Through the first 11 months of 2010, the deficit was running at an annual rate of $500.4 billion, 33.5 percent higher than in 2009, a year when the recession cut into Americans' appetite for imports.
For November, exports were up 0.8 percent to $159.6 billion, the highest point since August 2008. The increase was led by higher sales of commercial aircraft, computers and farm products like corn and wheat.
Imports had a smaller gain, increasing 0.6 percent to $198 billion, reflecting a 6.7 percent jump in petroleum imports, which climbed to $27.2 billion.
The trade deficit with China, the largest with any country, rose 0.5 percent to $25.6 billion in November and is on track to set a one-year record. Through November, the deficit with China was running at an annual rate of $275.3 billion, which would exceed the previous record of $268 billion set in 2008.
For November, exports to China reached a monthly record of $9.5 billion but imports from China rose as well, climbing to $35.1 billion.
On the wholesale level, prices in December logged their biggest increase in nearly a year, lifted by more expensive energy and food costs. But most other prices were steady, suggesting inflation was not spreading through the economy.
The Producer Price Index, which measures price changes before they reach consumers, rose 1.1 percent in December, up from a 0.8 percent rise in November. It was the largest increase since January 2010.
But outside the volatile energy and food categories, all other prices rose 0.2 percent, down from a 0.3 percent rise. The lower reading on core prices indicates inflation is not breaking out.
For the 12 months ending December, wholesale prices rose 4 percent. That was down from a 4.3 percent rise in 2009.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); RETAILERS (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



354 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Revokes Permit for West Virginia Mining Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Tom Zeller Jr. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Environmental Protection Agency revoked the permit for one of the nation's largest mountaintop-removal coal mining projects on Thursday, saying the mine would have done unacceptable damage to rivers, wildlife and communities in West Virginia. It was the first time the agency had rescinded a valid clean water permit for a coal mine.
Arch Coal's proposed Spruce No. 1 Mine in Logan County, which would have buried miles of Appalachian streams under millions of tons of residue, has been the subject of controversy and litigation since the first application was filed more than a decade ago. Opposition intensified after the Bush administration approved the mine's construction in 2007, issuing a permit required under the Clean Water Act.
The boldness of the E.P.A.'s action was striking at a time when the agency faces an increasingly hostile Congress and well-financed business lobbies seeking to limit its regulatory reach. Agency officials said that the coal company was welcome to resubmit a less damaging mining plan, but that law and science demanded the veto of the existing plan. 
Environmentalists welcomed Thursday's decision. But the mining company and politicians in West Virginia expressed fury, saying the action was an unprecedented federal intrusion, an economic catastrophe for the state and a dangerous precedent for all regulated industries.
The project would have involved dynamiting the tops off mountains over an area of 2,278 acres to get at the rich coal deposits beneath. The resulting rubble, known as spoil, would be dumped into nearby valleys, as well as the Pigeonroost Branch, the Oldhouse Branch and their tributaries, killing fish, salamanders and other wildlife. The agency said that disposal of the mining material would also pollute the streams and endanger human health and the environment downstream.
The agency said it was using its authority under the Clean Water Act to revoke a legally issued permit, an action it had taken only twice in the past 40 years and never before for a coal mine. The agency said that it reviews thousands of permits every year and that it reserved the authority to rescind them only for ''unacceptable cases.''
''The proposed Spruce No. 1 Mine would use destructive and unsustainable mining practices that jeopardize the health of Appalachian communities and clean water on which they depend,'' said Peter S. Silva, the agency's assistant administrator for water. ''Coal and coal mining are part of our nation's energy future, and E.P.A. has worked with companies to design mining operations that adequately protect our nation's waters. We have a responsibility under the law to protect water quality and safeguard the people who rely on clean water.''
Mr. Silva said the agency had worked with the company to try to devise a mining plan that would meet federal law, but that a year of discussions had failed to reach an agreement.
An official of Arch Coal, based in St. Louis, said the company would continue to challenge the federal action in court.
''We remain shocked and dismayed at E.P.A.'s continued onslaught with respect to this validly issued permit,'' said Kim Link, the company's spokeswoman. ''Absent court intervention, E.P.A.'s final determination to veto the Spruce permit blocks an additional $250 million investment and 250 well-paying American jobs.''
''Furthermore, we believe this decision will have a chilling effect on future U.S. investment,'' she added, ''because every business possessing or requiring a permit under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act will fear similar overreaching by the E.P.A. It's a risk many businesses cannot afford to take.''
She was referring to the provision of federal law under which the permit was originally issued and then revoked.
Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who until recently was the state's governor and who had sued the E.P.A. over delays on the project, issued a blistering statement opposing the agency's final ruling.
''Today's E.P.A. decision is not just fundamentally wrong, it is an unprecedented act by the federal government that will cost our state and our nation even more jobs during the worst recession in this country's history,'' Mr. Manchin said. ''It goes without saying, such an irresponsible regulatory step is not only a shocking display of overreach, it will have a chilling effect on investments and our economic recovery. I plan to do everything in my power to fight this decision.''
Anticipating the agency's decision, a group of regulated industries wrote to the White House this week asking that the mine be allowed to proceed, and seeking clarification on when the administration intended to use its Clean Water Act authority to block projects.
Groups including the National Realtors Association, the American Road and Transportation Builders Association and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association wrote to Nancy Sutley, the chairwoman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, asking that the Spruce Mine permit be approved.
The groups said in their letter that if the agency revoked the coal mining permit, ''every similarly valid permit held by any entity -- businesses, public works agencies and individual citizens -- will be in increased regulatory limbo and potentially subject to the same unilateral, after-the-fact revocation.''
''The implications could be staggering,'' they added, ''reaching all areas of the U.S. economy including but not limited to the agriculture, home building, mining, transportation and energy sectors.''
The mining industry made a similar point on Thursday. ''E.P.A.'s veto of an existing, valid permit for the Spruce No. 1 mine threatens the certainty of all Section 404 permits -- weakening the trust U.S. businesses and workers need to make investments and secure jobs,'' said Hal Quinn, president of the National Mining Association.
An agency official said that though the current design for the Spruce No. 1 project had been rejected, the company was free to submit a new proposal.
Janet Keating, president of the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition, said in a statement, ''We breathe a huge sigh of relief today.'' She added that the move ''halts the destruction of Pigeon Roost Hollow,'' where much of the debris was to be dumped.
Ms. Keating said the decision was a milestone in the debate over mountaintop-removal coal mining. ''Spruce No. 1 is the only individual permit to have undergone a full environmental impact statement,'' she said. ''The science completely validates what we have been saying for more than a decade: These types of mining operations are destroying our streams and forests and nearby residents' health, and even driving entire communities to extinction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An E.P.A. decision blocks mountaintop-removal mining by the Arch Coal company in an area, at bottom right, in Blair, W.Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (93%); COAL MINING (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RIVERS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); WATER RIGHTS (72%); LITIGATION (70%)

COMPANY: ARCH COAL INC (57%)

TICKER: ACI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



355 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Raises Rates As Inflation Stirs Concern

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER; Mark McDonald contributed reporting from Seoul.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- South Korea unexpectedly raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point Thursday and announced measures intended to curb rising prices, the latest sign that policy makers in Asia and other emerging markets were increasingly concerned about inflation. 
While prices in the United States, Japan and the euro zone have been creeping up slowly, inflation in many developing nations has risen rapidly alongside overall economic growth. Climbing commodity prices -- in recent weeks, crude oil prices have increased to more than $90, the highest level since October 2008 -- and adverse weather have helped drive prices up in some areas.
For example, India reported Thursday that a crucial index measuring prices had risen 16.9 percent in the week ending Jan. 1 from the level of a year earlier, while in China, the latest available data showed that consumer prices in November were 5.1 percent higher than a year earlier.
In South Korea, consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in December from the level of a year earlier, driven by price increases in petroleum and farm products, and the central bank said Thursday that it expected inflation pressures to mount in coming months.
Double-digit price increases like those in India are the exception, and many economists argue that inflation remains manageable in many countries.
Still, food price inflation in particular is a sensitive issue in developing nations, where many people's incomes go directly to necessities like cooking oil, vegetables and other foodstuffs.
As a result, many emerging nations have started to nudge interest rates back toward precrisis levels and have instituted other measures meant to tamp down prices. South Korea's latest action -- its third rate increase since mid-2010 -- takes the country's key seven-day repurchase rate to 2.75 percent.
After an economic policy meeting Thursday, President Lee Myung-bak said the government would watch to make sure that prices for gasoline and other oil products were ''at an appropriate level.'' In recent months, gasoline prices in South Korea have jumped to an average of $1.69 a liter, or $6.40 a gallon.
The government also announced a six-month freeze on charges for various utilities, including gas and electricity, and requested that colleges and universities not increase tuition this year.
The Bank of Korea's decision to raise rates on Thursday surprised many economists, who had not expected another increase until later in the year.
Still, many project that rates will gradually rise further in South Korea and other fast-growing economies as policy makers strive to battle higher prices.
''Inflation is on the rise, in Korea as elsewhere,'' Kim Song-yi, an economist at HSBC in Seoul, wrote in a note on Thursday, adding that the central bank's ''pro-active stance'' was a ''good thing.''
Thailand nudged up its key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.25 percent Wednesday, adding to similar moves in recent months, while China has raised rates twice recently and restricted lending by state-controlled banks, actions aimed at slowing its economy's breakneck growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EURO ZONE (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



356 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Backers Push A Law School In the Valley

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Texas produces more law school graduates than it has jobs for. But that has not stopped some lawmakers from proposing that the state build a public law school in the Rio Grande Valley.
Supporters of a new school say there is geographic inequity. The public law school nearest the state's southernmost region is more than 300 miles away, at the University of Texas in Austin. In addition, they point out, the Rio Grande Valley has one of the lowest lawyer-to-citizen ratios in the state.
Before the legislative session even began, two Valley lawmakers filed bills to create a new school. State Representative Eddie Lucio III, Democrat of San Benito, said that he was not naive enough to think that the current Legislature would spend millions on a new law school when it was facing a budget shortfall of as much as $27 billion, but that he wanted to try to keep the issue from being ''sent to the back of the line.'' 
The other sponsor, Representative Armando ''Mando'' Martinez, Democrat of Weslaco, said that even if the school was initially unfinanced, ''I'm not looking at leaving here without one.''
Even if the state was not facing a huge budget shortfall, making the case that it needs another law school poses a significant hurdle: who would hire the graduates? In 2009, Texas' nine law schools produced a total of 2,340 graduates. And 1,837 lawyers passed the 2009 Texas bar exam. The Texas Workforce Commission estimates that there will be only about 1,660 lawyer job openings in each of the next five years.
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, which monitors the state's higher education needs, also questions whether another law school is needed. Last fall, it released a study on the feasibility of establishing new law schools and concluded that the current number is more than enough to meet current and near-future needs. If lawmakers still want to increase the number of law school slots, the board said, existing institutions should expand course offerings and class sizes.
Of course, lawmakers have ignored the board's advice in the past. State Senator Royce West, Democrat of Dallas, won approval for a new public law school in his district in 2009. Mr. West said that while he appreciated the agency's diligence, ''sometimes, we as legislators don't always think they are right.''
The coordinating board also found little evidence that establishing a public law school encouraged local students to apply. For example, only 2.6 percent of all Texas law students come from the Panhandle, which has a law school at Texas Tech University in Lubbock. South Texans, meanwhile, account for 3.6 percent of all law students in the state.
The coordinating board's study also noted, however, that a law school in a South Texas city like Brownsville could help correct disparities in the state's legal community, which -- unlike the state -- is overwhelmingly made up of white men.
Mr. Lucio, a lawyer by trade, said: ''Strictly from an economic standpoint, do we have enough lawyers to act as general counsels to corporations and work on civil matters? Maybe we do. But we are deficient in other areas like family law, criminal law and immigration law.''
Ultimately, it may be the state's own deficiency in cash that holds up a new school. According to the coordinating board, the cost, over five years, of beginning a brand new law school is $80,484,345.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUDGETS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



357 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; JUBA JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Referendum Logos Accent Challenges Facing Sudan

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
JUBA, Sudan -- Michael Kwol, who said he fought for nearly 40 years through two civil wars only to be shot in the side by bandits, slipped out of the clinic where he undergoes physical therapy, limped through the memorial grounds dedicated to the liberation leader John Garang, threw his crutches to the side and hopped up to the voting booth.
Because he grew up fighting in the bush and never received a formal education, Mr. Kwol, 56, has trouble reading. No matter. The campaign logo for independence in the referendum here in southern Sudan -- an open hand seemingly waving farewell to the north -- is everywhere, and he knew just which way to vote.
''Bye-bye,'' said Mr. Kwol, waving his right hand while leaning on his crutches. Like so many of his compatriots, he voted for secession from northern Sudan. ''I feel good,'' he said. 
As straightforward as their meanings may seem, the symbols used on the referendum ballots -- the open hand for separation and a pair of clasped hands for unity -- were the fruit of months of tense negotiations between the north and south, underscoring the many challenges that lie ahead for the south if it attains independence, as expected.
''It took a long time to agree,'' said Beatrice Wani, an officer for the Southern Sudan Referendum Bureau. ''We went through many rounds.''
In a poor, underdeveloped society where only 15 percent of adults can read and write, using symbols was of paramount importance, but each one seemed to carry its own underlying meaning and subliminal message.
Among the first options to be proposed was the symbol of a single star -- like the one on the southern Sudanese flag -- to represent separation and a moon to symbolize unity with the largely Muslim north, Ms. Wani said. But that plan was rejected, she said, when the north argued that the star symbolized support for Israel as a Jewish state. Israel took in droves of Sudanese refugees from the war and could establish formal ties with a newly independent southern Sudan.
Then organizers thought of using a picture of a grass hut -- like those that dot the landscape -- but some argued that it would be too ambiguous. Then they thought of using a giraffe. Or a traditional ceramic pot.
Finally, they settled on the hands.
Literacy is just one of the hurdles southern Sudan would face upon independence. Comprehensive statistics on the region may be lagging, given its vast distances and decades of civil war, but a common picture is emerging. As one recent study supported by the United States Agency for International Development suggested, ''There is no other post-conflict reconstruction challenge in modern times that is on par with Southern Sudan.''
The roads disappear during the rainy season. Electricity comes from diesel generators. Offices and hotels are pieced together like Lego blocks of prefabricated container units, imported from abroad. More than half the population lives on less than 75 cents a day, and nearly half of the people here are ''food deprived,'' according to the United Nations.
The referendum has acted as a dress rehearsal for the government, and the task was not easy. Millions of ballots had to be dispersed. Roughly 14,000 electoral officers were trained in electoral law. And important messages had to be communicated to a highly illiterate society.
But the officials here have excelled where by many traditional indicators they should have failed -- they have gotten out the vote.
Despite lingering tensions and fighting along the contested border with the north, the voting itself has been orderly, and five days into the referendum, turnout has been astronomical, with observers saying the total numbers will clear the 60 percent mark necessary for the results to be valid. In the process, southern leaders eager for independence have turned the region's largest handicap, illiteracy, into a tool.
Ms. Wani of the referendum bureau said the symbols held subliminal clues that illiterate voters intuitively recognized: in the unity option, the gripping hands were left hands, a greeting that would be taboo in southern Sudan, while the open palm for separation was the right hand.
The secession campaign was also highly effective. The open palm is ubiquitous throughout southern Sudan, plastered on shop doors, bumper stickers and little flags, often with a thumbprint signifying a vote.
But pictures of the clasped hands of unity are scarce, and where they are present, there is usually a picture of the open palm next to it, with the thumbprint pressed in below.
While a pro-unity rally has been held in the southern capital, Juba, a church in the state of Western Equatoria was recently burned down after community members were told by its leaders not to vote.
On Thursday, two ethnic groups that have been skirmishing in the contested Abyei area along the border between north and south signed an agreement meant to reduce conflicts over grazing land that have led to more than 40 deaths.
At referendum rallies, officials have mixed voter education with political campaigning, swaying an open hand back and forth to the crowds to teach the symbol -- waving farewell.
The U.S.A.I.D. study says the new country would require decades of foreign aid ''intervention,'' including hundreds of millions of dollars, along with thousands of expatriates to staff government offices. One Western diplomat said southern Sudan was set to become ''the world's next aid darling.''
But the success of the campaign and the voting could cause some to rethink the perception of some of southern Sudan's challenges. Neha Erasmus, who works as an aide to an African Union panel on Sudan, said the success of the referendum so far was an indication that southern Sudan's challenges were misunderstood, and that its strengths had often gone unnoticed.
''By the standard by which we judge progress, southern Sudan falls very short of the mark,'' Ms. Erasmus said. ''But the problem'' with this standard, she said, is that it focuses on ''what isn't there'' instead of on ''strengths -- strengths of values, communities and societies.'' Indeed, illiteracy has been used as a catalyst for innovation here before. Billboards throughout the country advertise the newest service from Vivacell, the first southern Sudanese-owned cellphone company.
The service is called Voice SMS; users speak a message into their phone that, in theory, can be delivered as a standard voicemail or translated into text. Like many African countries, the southern Sudan region has experienced a proliferation of phones and data networks, despite other stark, more basic, development gaps.
Below the billboards, and spread around the towns and countryside, is the low-tech campaign message, the open palm.
''Bye-bye,'' Mr. Kwol said again, emphatically. ''Bye-bye.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illiteracy in southern Sudan has forced officials in Juba and elsewhere to be creative about how to spread referendum messages.
Turnout has been high for southern Sudan's referendum on independence
 the voting will continue for a few more days. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (92%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); REFUGEES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



358 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Missions Hamstrung By New U.S. Banking Rules

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
UNITED NATIONS -- Foreign diplomatic missions here and in Washington face the prospect of stuffing their cash into their mattresses as American laws to combat money laundering and terrorism have prompted banks to refuse their accounts. 
JPMorgan Chase notified more than 150 ambassadors last September that their accounts would be closed as of March 31, but the issue grew into a budding diplomatic crisis this month as embassies scrambling to open accounts elsewhere were turned away.
''It really is a problem,'' Baso Sangqu, the ambassador from South Africa, said Thursday. ''We cannot get banking services.''
Chase and other major banks -- including Bank of America, Citibank and HSBC -- refused to comment publicly on changes in their diplomatic banking business. The letter Chase sent in September said its ''business decision does not reflect on your organization'' and noted that personal accounts were not affected.
Privately, banking officials said that the cost of complying with the regulations and the potential large fines if they did not were not matched by the earnings diplomatic accounts generate.
Efforts to more closely monitor foreign bank transfers to combat money laundering started around 1990, but took on renewed urgency to block terrorism financing after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Banks must ask customers to specify the sources of large or suspicious transfers from abroad and report them to the government. For now, transfers over $10,000 must be reported, but the Treasury Department has proposed requiring reports on all foreign transfers.
''We don't have an exemption in the United States for foreign governments,'' said Edwin M. Truman, an international finance expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Several recent events have probably prompted the banks to act. A report by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations last February criticized Bank of America and HSBC for what it called lax policing on a few African accounts, including some from Angola and Equatorial Guinea. Last fall, the Federal Reserve also singled out HSBC for lack of vigilance.
The State Department dispatched Ambassador Patrick F. Kennedy, the under secretary for management, as well as a senior Treasury Department official, to the United Nations on Thursday to brief diplomats from about 100 nations on efforts to solve the problem. Mr. Kennedy said the American government had approached Chase about the issue, but stressed that ultimately American banks were private enterprises that made business decisions free of government intervention.
The envoys left unimpressed. ''I don't think it is providing any solution at this time,'' Mr. Sangqu said.
Larger countries, like China and France, said they did not anticipate difficulties finding other banks. But smaller countries, or those under sanctions like Iran and Cuba, are expected to face problems.
Mohammad Khazaee, the ambassador from Iran, said that without bank accounts, the entire business of the United Nations risked grinding to a halt as member states would be unable to make the financial transfers needed to pay for costs ranging from their annual dues to peacekeeping operations. ''Missions cannot function,'' he said.
Mr. Khazaee suggested that the United Nations retaliate against Chase by closing its substantial accounts there.
Martin Nesirky, the United Nations spokesman, said the organization had not been approached. With the Secretariat building under renovation, the space that a Chase branch used to occupy was open to negotiation, he noted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); HSBA (LSE) (85%); HSB (PAR) (85%); HBC (NYSE) (85%); 0005 (HKSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



359 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Target Moves Into Canada By Buying Store Chain

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- The Target Corporationsaid on Thursday that it would make its first move outside of the United States by acquiring up to 220 Zellers department store locations from the Hudson's Bay Company for $1.8 billion.
The deal promises to transform Canadian retailing much like the arrival of Wal-Mart in Canada 17 years ago. It will likely lead to the eventual disappearance of Zellers, the last major discount chain based in Canada, which has struggled against competition from Wal-Mart. 
Thursday's transaction allows Target to overcome the general lack of available retail space in prime locations, a problem facing any large retailer trying to enter the Canadian market. Target will also gain access to a market that is less competitive and was far less affected by the recession than the United States.
For the Hudson's Bay Company, whose founding in 1670 makes it the oldest corporation in North America, the deal will allow it to reduce its debt and focus on renovating a nationwide chain of full-line department stores to attract more affluent shoppers. The chain, along with its Zellers subsidiary, was acquired in 2008 by NRDC Equity Partners, a private equity firm whose holdings include Lord & Taylor.
''This transaction is spectacular for the balance of our companies,'' Richard A. Baker, the chief executive of NRDC Equity and the governor of Hudson's Bay, said in an interview.
The deal also provides NRDC Equity with a substantial financial gain. The firm paid an estimated $1.1 billion for both Hudson's Bay and Zellers. Mr. Baker said that about $500 million would be invested into the Hudson's Bay stores as well as Lord & Taylor, which NRDC operates through its Hudson's Bay Trading Company subsidiary.
Unlike Lord & Taylor, Target is well known to Canadians. Michael R. Francis, the chief marketing officer at Target and the executive overseeing the expansion, estimated that the brand was known to 70 percent of Canadians and that 10 percent of Canadians had shopped at one of its stores while visiting the United States in the last year.
''The Canadian market has been something of interest to us for a very long time,'' Gregg W. Steinhafel, Target's chief executive, said in an interview.
The terms of the transaction give Target considerable time to select which of the 276 Zellers locations it wants to acquire and to deal with issues like Canadian laws that require all packaging be in French and English.
It will not begin converting the 220 Zellers locations until 2013. Until 2014, Hudson's Bay will sublet the stores from Target and continue to operate them as Zellers outlets. Target will invest about $1 billion in renovations and have up to 150 stores under its own name in Canada within three years.
Mr. Francis said that both Target and Hudson's Bay were likely to sell the leases on the unwanted locations to other retailers or trade them for concessions from landlords.
To fend off Wal-Mart, Hudson's Bay had tried to reposition Zellers as a Canadian version of Target.
David A. Soberman, a professor of marketing with the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, said that effort was largely unsuccessful.
''When I go into Zellers, I don't find in any way the experience to be similar to Target,'' Professor Soberman said. ''Zellers looks like a store from the last century.''
Target is following Wal-Mart's lead in its approach to the Canadian market. Wal-Mart started with a base of 100 Woolco stores it bought from Woolworth and now has 323 outlets.
Mr. Baker said the sale of Zellers would enable him to press ahead with plans to list Hudson's Bay Trading on the Toronto exchange.
A new management team brought in by Mr. Baker has revitalized Hudson Bay's private clothing labels and brought in several high-end designer lines. Merchandise produced in connection with the Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, last year was exceptionally successful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%)

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (98%); TARGET CORP (92%); NRDC EQUITY PARTNERS LLC (69%)

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (98%); TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (98%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%)

PERSON: GREGG STEINHAFEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



360 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS AND BONDS; Major Indexes End Lower After Jobless Claims Climb

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stock indexes were lower for the first time in three days, as jobless claims climbed more than economists estimated and concern about a slowdown in Chinese demand dragged down commodity producers. 
Alcoa and ConocoPhillips dropped at least 2.1 percent after a decline in commodities prices after the World Bank said China might raise interest rates further.
Merck slid 6.6 percent, as a trial for a blood-thinner drug was halted.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index retreated 0.2 percent to 1,283.76 after rising on Wednesday to its highest level since August 2008. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 23.54 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,731.90. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.04 points, or 0.07 percent, to 2,735.29.
''It's going to be a struggle,'' said Kevin Bannon, chief investment officer at Highmount Capital in New York. ''Some of the economic reports may be doing a little bit to dampen the rush of enthusiasm at the end of the year about the economy clearly turning the corner.''
The S.& P. 500 has soared 90 percent from its March 2009 low amid government measures to stimulate the economy and corporate profits that beat forecasts.
Labor Department data showed that initial jobless claims rose by 35,000, to 445,000, in the first week of the year. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for 410,000 filings. The average number of applications over the last four weeks, a less volatile gauge, increased to 416,500.
Other government reports showed that the trade deficit unexpectedly narrowed and wholesale inflation excluding food and energy matched economists' forecasts.
''We've got a bad jobs report, a good trade report and a neutral inflation report in the U.S.,'' said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust, in Elmira, N.Y. ''On balance, today's economic data ends up being neutral. That's not necessarily good for the market. Stocks have had a nice run. We'd need to see real improvement in order to see more gains for equities.''
Commodity prices slipped as copper fell for the first day in three on concern that growth might slow this year in China, the world's biggest consumer of the metal. Gold, silver and oil prices also declined.
China has considerable scope to raise interest rates further, Vikram Nehru, the World Bank's chief economist for East Asia and the Pacific, said on Thursday. Economic growth in the country will weaken to 8.7 percent this year, from 10 percent in 2010, the World Bank said last night. China increased borrowing costs by 0.25 percentage point on Dec. 25.
Alcoa, the country's largest aluminum producer, slid 3 percent to $15.75. ConocoPhillips, the oil company based in Houston, fell 2.1 percent to $67.26.
But other stocks did well.
Marathon Oil rose 6 percent to $42.98 after it said it would spin off its fuel-making business, creating two independent energy companies. The spinoff is expected to be effective June 30.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 17/32, to 94 12/32. The yield fell to 3.30 percent, from 3.37 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); BONDS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ANTICOAGULANTS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (94%); ALCOA INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); CHEMUNG CANAL TRUST CO (53%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (94%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (94%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



361 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1789 words

PERSON: Ellen Stewart 

HEADLINE: Ellen Stewart Dies at 91; Put Off Off Broadway on Map

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW and BRUCE WEBER; Mel Gussow, a theater critic and reporter for The Times who contributed to this obituary, died in 2005.

 BODY:
Ellen Stewart, the founder, artistic director and de facto producer of La MaMa Experimental Theater Club, a multicultural hive of avant-garde drama and performance art in New York for almost half a century, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 91.
Ms. Stewart had a history of heart trouble and died at Beth Israel Hospital after a long illness, said Sam Rudy, a spokesman for La MaMa, where she had lived for many years in an apartment above the theater, on East Fourth Street.
Ms. Stewart was a dress designer when she started La MaMa in a basement apartment in 1961, a woman entirely without theater experience or even much interest in the theater. But within a few years, and with an indomitable personality, she had become a theater pioneer.
Not only did she introduce unusual new work to the stage, she also helped colonize a new territory for the theater, planting a flag in the name of low-budget experimental productions in the East Village of Manhattan and creating the capital of what became known as Off Off Broadway. 
She was a vivid figure, often described as beautiful -- an African-American woman whose long hair, frequently worn in cornrows, turned silver in her later years. Her wardrobe was flamboyant, replete with bangles, bracelets and scarves. Her voice was deep, carrying an accent reminiscent of her Louisiana roots.
Few producers could match her energy, perseverance and fortitude. In the decades after World War II her influence on American theater was comparable to that of Joseph Papp, founder of the New York Shakespeare Festival, though the two approached the stage from different wings. Papp straddled the commercial and noncommercial worlds, while Ms. Stewart's terrain was international and decidedly noncommercial.
Her theater became a remarkable springboard for an impressive roster of promising playwrights, directors and actors who went on to accomplished careers both in mainstream entertainment and in push-the-envelope theater.
Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, F. Murray Abraham, Olympia Dukakis, Richard Dreyfuss, Bette Midler, Diane Lane and Nick Nolte were among the actors who performed at La MaMa in its first two decades. Playwrights like Sam Shepard, Lanford Wilson, Harvey Fierstein, Maria Irene Fornes and Adrienne Kennedy developed early work there. So did composers like Elizabeth Swados, Philip Glass and Stephen Schwartz.
La MaMa directors included the visionary Robert Wilson; Tom O'Horgan (who helped create the rock musical ''Hair'' at the Public); Richard Foreman, who founded the imaginative Ontological Theater Company; Joseph Chaikin, who founded the Open Theater; and even Papp, before there was such a thing as the Public Theater. Meredith Monk, the composer, choreographer and director, presented her genre-bending pieces there regularly.
A few La MaMa plays, like the musical ''Godspell,'' moved to Broadway, and others had extended runs in commercial Off Broadway houses.
''Eighty percent of what is now considered the American theater originated at La MaMa,'' Mr. Fierstein once said in an interview in Vanity Fair, perhaps exaggerating slightly. His play ''Torch Song Trilogy'' was developed there.
La MaMa became the quintessential theater on a shoestring. Salaries were minimal, ticket prices were low, and profits were nonexistent. For decades Ms. Stewart often swept the sidewalk in front of the theater herself.
But an adventurous theatergoer would be rewarded there. More than 3,000 productions of classic and postmodern drama, performance art, dance and chamber opera have been seen on La MaMa's various stages. For Ms. Stewart a vast number of them were leaps of faith, arising from her instinct and belief that what artists need more than anything else is the freedom to create without interference. She would typically appear onstage before a performance, ring a cowbell and announce La MaMa's dedication ''to the playwright and all aspects of the theater.''
During the earliest days of her theater she supported her family of artists -- her children, she called them -- with the money she continued to earn designing clothes. She installed a washer and dryer in the basement for the performers, and many a visiting artist slept in her apartment or in the theaters themselves.
She didn't begin directing shows herself until relatively late in her life. She often said she didn't read plays; she read people. Her gifts, as affirmed by a MacArthur Foundation award in 1985, were intuitive and hard to pin down.
''If a script 'beeps' to me, I do it,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times. ''Audiences may hate these plays, but I believe in them. The only way I can explain my 'beeps' is that I'm no intellectual, but my instincts tell me automatically when a playwright has something.''
Her programming stretched far wider than the American theater. It was at La MaMa that Andrei Serban, a Romanian director transplanted to the United States, refought the Trojan War with his reinvention of Greek tragedy, ''Fragments of a Greek Trilogy,'' incorporating ''Medea,'' ''The Trojan Women'' and ''Electra.'' La MaMa became a magnet for the most adventurous European and American companies, including Peter Brook's Paris group. Playing there now is ''Being Harold Pinter,'' a politically charged production by the Belarus Free Theater, based in Minsk, some of whose members were arrested and others forced underground by an authoritarian regime.
La MaMa's range of activity was kaleidoscopic and multicultural, embracing an Eskimo ''Antigone,'' a Korean ''Hamlet'' and a splashy re-creation of the golden days of the Cotton Club in Harlem, directed by Ms. Stewart herself.
She was a theatrical missionary, scouting new talent abroad and planting La MaMa seeds wherever she went. She produced site-specific performances all over the world -- a ''Medea'' created by Mr. Serban and Ms. Swados, for example, at the ruins in Baalbek, Lebanon, in 1972. Satellite La MaMa organizations sprouted from Tel Aviv to Tokyo. With the $300,000 MacArthur grant she bought a former monastery in Umbria, Italy, and turned it into an international theater center.
Even when her network of theaters was reduced for economic reasons, she remained the avant-garde's ambassador to the world.
''If the play is good, then it's good,'' she said when asked about her devotion to experimental work. ''If it's bad, that does not change my way of thinking about the person involved. I may be disappointed in production values, but I've never been sorry about anything I put on.''
Ms. Stewart was born in Chicago on Nov. 7, 1919 and spent her childhood years there and in Alexandria, La. She was never eager to speak about the part of her life before her arrival in New York, and details about it are scarce. She was married at least once and had a son, Larry Hovell, who died in 1998. Her survivors include an adopted son, Duk Hyung Yoo, who lives in South Korea, and eight grandchildren.
What is known is that she studied to be a teacher at Arkansas State College and worked as a riveter in a defense plant in Chicago during World War II. In 1950 she moved to New York with the intention of going to design school, but ended up having to support herself with a variety of jobs. At one point she was a porter and operated an elevator at Saks Fifth Avenue.
According to a story she often told, on a visit to Delancey Street one Sunday, she met a fabric shop owner who encouraged her dream to become a fashion designer. He gave her fabrics to turn into dresses, and when she wore her own creations to work at Saks, she created such excitement that the store made her a designer.
Her theater career began as a good turn. Her foster brother, Frederick Lights, wanted to be a playwright but had difficulty getting his work staged. Sympathetic to him and to Paul Foster, another aspiring dramatist, she began a theater in 1962 in the basement of a tenement on East Ninth Street.
Everyone already referred to Ms. Stewart as Mama, and one of the actors suggested La MaMa as a name for her space. The theater was called Cafe La MaMa, and later La MaMa E.T.C. (for Experimental Theater Club).
At first people were sometimes literally pulled in off the street to see the shows: Tennessee Williams's ''One Arm,'' Eugene O'Neill's ''Before Breakfast,'' Fernando Arrabal's ''Executioner.'' Ms. Stewart would sometimes present a play -- like ''The Room,'' by Harold Pinter -- without authorization.
Neighbors initially tried to close the theater down. They thought she was running a brothel, she said in interviews. Otherwise, why would so many white men be visiting a black woman in a basement?
But the shows went on. La MaMa was one of New York's first coffeehouse theaters and became a pillar of Off Off Broadway, which sprang up as alternative theater when Off Broadway began pursuing a more mainstream audience. As word of La MaMa spread, artists flocked to it.
Gradually federal and foundation grants came in, giving added certification to a theater that became an important New York cultural institution.
In 1969, with the help of $25,000 from W. MacNeil Lowry and the Ford Foundation, the company moved to a former meatpacking plant at 74A East Fourth Street, where it created two 99-seat theaters and office space. Ms. Stewart lived above the theaters. In 1974 she opened the Annex, a 295-seat theater a few doors down the street in a converted television studio. It was renamed the Ellen Stewart Theater in a gala celebration in November 2009. La MaMa also has an art gallery, a six-story rehearsal and studio building nearby and an extensive archive on the history of Off Off Broadway theater.
Ms. Stewart virtually never stopped working. Despite a variety of ailments, she had been putting on about 70 new productions a year. The shows will go on. The theater said it would continue to present its schedule without interruption, and Mia Yoo, who has been co-artistic director since September 2009, will continue in that capacity.
''When I think about the fact that she is in the last part of her life, even though I've been there a lot of her life, I can't bear the thought of this world without her,'' Elizabeth Swados said in a 2006 article in the theater journal TDR: The Drama Review. ''I can't imagine La MaMa without her. There may be a place called La MaMa that somebody brings good avant-garde international theater to, but it will not be La MaMa. La MaMa is her.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Friday about Ellen Stewart, the founder of La MaMa Experimental Theater Club in New York, misidentified one of the writers whose works La MaMa presented. She is Adrienne Kennedy, not Adrienne Rich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ellen Stewart at La MaMa in 1990, in front of a photograph from a 1965 production. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
From left, ''The Trojan Women,'' part of ''Fragments of a Greek Trilogy,'' conceived and staged by the Romanian director Andrei Serban, at La MaMa in 1974
Ms. Stewart at La MaMa, a magnet for adventurous European and American companies, in 1967. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WALDMAN/LA MAMA ARCHIVE
 PIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%); POP & ROCK (64%); WRITERS (62%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ROBERT DE NIRO (58%); THOMAS J WILSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



362 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Gates Signals U.S. Is Flexible On Moving Air Base in Japan

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Striking a conciliatory tone on an issue that has divided Japan and the United States, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday that the Obama administration would follow Tokyo's lead in working to relocate an American air base on Okinawa.
During talks with Japanese leaders in Tokyo, Mr. Gates said he also discussed a sophisticated new antimissile system that the United States is jointly developing with the Japanese, and the two nations' response to North Korea's recent military provocations against the South. 
But a top item on the agenda was the relocation of the United States Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, an emotional issue here that drove an uncharacteristic wedge between the allies last year when the prime minister at the time, Yukio Hatoyama, wavered on whether to keep the base on Okinawa.
While the two nations finally agreed in May to relocate the noisy helicopter base to a less populated part of Okinawa by 2014, local resistance has made that time frame look increasingly unrealistic.
On Thursday, Mr. Gates said the administration did not want the Futenma issue to overshadow the countries' overall security alliance, which last year reached its 50th anniversary. He signaled that the United States was willing to be flexible in allowing Tokyo to resolve the domestic political resistance to the relocation plan.
''We do understand that it is politically a complex matter in Japan,'' he said after meeting Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa. ''And we intend to follow the lead of the Japanese government in working with the people of Okinawa to take their interests and their concerns into account.''
The softer tone is a departure from Mr. Gates's visit to Tokyo in October 2009, when he pushed Mr. Hatoyama's fledgling government to honor an earlier deal to relocate the base on Okinawa. Those pressure tactics backfired, creating resentment in the government that the United States was trying to bully it.
Mr. Hatoyama eventually stepped down amid criticism that he had mishandled the alliance. His successor, Prime Minister Naoto Kan, has worked to strengthen security ties with Tokyo's traditional protector.
At Keio University in Tokyo on Friday, Mr. Gates said the rising tensions in the region, including North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and China's expanding military, made it essential to fortify the security alliance between the United States and Japan. ''Our alliance is more necessary, more relevant and more important than ever,'' he said.
He said it was essential for American military forces to remain in Japan, particularly as a deterrent against North Korean aggression and the ever-bolder Chinese armed forces. Without the American presence, he said, ''North Korea's military provocations could be even more dangerous or worse.'' China, he said, ''might behave more assertively towards its neighbors.''
On Thursday, Mr. Gates and Mr. Kitazawa discussed one of the nations' largest joint projects, the development of the antimissile system, which will be fired from ships to intercept larger ballistic missiles in midflight.
Washington wants to be able to sell the system, known as the SM-3, to other nations, including possibly South Korea. But that would require Japan to rewrite its tight restrictions on weapons exports, a pillar of the nation's post-World War II pacifism.
While Mr. Gates said Washington hoped to defray development costs by exporting the system, he was aware that this was a delicate matter in Japan. ''It makes economic sense to make it available to others,'' he said of the new interceptor. ''But we understand there are certain processes that have to be gone through here.''
Prime Minister Kan has called for a public debate on revising the restrictions, a step that many Japanese see as necessary for closer security cooperation with the United States in responding to China and North Korea.
Mr. Gates, whose next stop is South Korea, said he had asked Japan for help in pressuring the North not to strike South Korea again. He has said he is worried that South Korea might feel forced to make a strong retaliation after already suffering North Korean attacks last year on an island and a warship. Pyongyang has denied involvement in the sinking of the warship.
''It's a longstanding principle that every country has the right to protect itself and defend itself against an unprovoked attack,'' Mr. Gates said. ''The objective that we all have in common is, how do we prevent another provocation from taking place?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, center, at a wreath-laying ceremony for Japanese soldiers in Tokyo on Thursday. (POOL PHOTO BY KAZUHIRO NOGI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (78%); NAOTO KAN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



363 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
IN ARAB STATES, CLINTON GIVES
A Scathing Talk on Reform
In Qatar, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton delivered a scalding critique of Arab leaders, saying their countries risked ''sinking into the sand'' of unrest and extremism unless they liberalized their political systems and cleaned up their economies. Page A4
CHINA TOLL DODGER PUNISHED 
A man in China convicted of evading road tolls has been punished with life in prison and a $300,000 fine. The penalty has provoked a firestorm in the Chinese news media against the government. Page A4
U.S. TO FOLLOW JAPAN ON BASE
Striking a conciliatory tone on an issue that has divided Japan and the United States, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that the Obama administration would follow Tokyo's lead in working to relocate an American air base on Okinawa. Page A9
HITTING TERROR IN THE WALLET
Foreign diplomatic missions at the United Nations and in Washington face the prospect of stuffing their cash into their mattresses as American laws to combat money laundering and terrorism have prompted banks to refuse their accounts. Page A11
ITALY REVOKES IMMUNITY
Italy's highest court revoked automatic immunity for Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, a move that could restart three criminal cases against him and further jeopardize his tenuous hold on power. Page A11
National
MIAMI'S CHIEF OF POLICE
And Mayor Are at Odds
Over the last several weeks, Miami's mayor and police chief have traded accusations across the bones of what was once an alliance. The mayor is claiming that the police department is conducting surveillance on him, and the police chief has accused the mayor of trying to improperly disrupt a covert investigation into illegal gambling. Page A12
THE GRACELAND OF COMPUTERS
Silicon Valley's shrine to the computer has finally upgraded to version 2.0. The 35-year-old Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., unveiled a $19 million overhaul, making it a destination for anyone interested in the evolution from the abacus to the iPhone. Page A13
New York
A RARE HAVEN FOR GAY
And Transgender Arabs
Habibi is a floating monthly dance party of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Arabs in New York. In a city that seems to offer activities for every conceivable gay subculture, it is perhaps the only opportunity in New York for gay people of Middle Eastern descent to interact openly in an organized setting. Page A19
Obituaries
JOE GORES, 79
He was a crime writer whose spare, chiseled sentences and deadpan dialogue put him squarely in the Dashiell Hammett tradition. Page B10
Business
CORPORATE DEMAND HELPS INTEL EARNINGS IMPROVE
For Intel, the leading computer chip maker, the fourth quarter brought better-than-expected sales on strong corporate demand, offsetting sluggish consumer sales. Page B1
EUROPE BANKS TO BE TESTED
The European banking regulator said that it would conduct another round of stress tests on lenders this spring, a move that investors hope will offer more clarity on the health of balance sheets. Page B3
EUROPE INVESTIGATES GOOGLE
European antitrust investigators are asking advertisers whether Google suggested they increase spending with the company in return for improved visibility in its Web search results. The investigators are also examining whether Google stymied companies that had tried to move their business elsewhere. Page B5
Arts
'DILEMMA' NOT QUITE
What It Seems to Be
If you have seen the promotions for ''The Dilemma,'' you might be forgiven for expecting a semistupid, semisweet, semioffensive guy comedy. But, writes A. O. Scott, it is not entirely what it appears to be. Page C1
ECHOES OF TODAY IN THE PAST
''The Talent Show,'' at MoMA P.S. 1 in Queens, explores tendencies in performance and participatory art, beginning in the 1960s, that appear to anticipate today's culture of equal-opportunity celebrity, writes Ken Johnson. Page C29
okSports
SPORTING NEWS CONTINUES
Its Path to Web Property
Sporting News's reinvention as a Web property continued with a deal to license the AOL FanHouse name and take editorial control of its content. Financial terms were not disclosed. Page B16
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BANKING LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); TERRORISM (72%); POLITICS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RELOCATIONS (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ELECTRONICS (67%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (65%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (65%); HISTORY (62%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (62%); SALES PROJECTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); QATAR (92%); ITALY (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



364 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Dimon's Options Include Patience

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, faces a luxury problem. The bank, which reports earnings on Friday, predicts it will generate up to $50 billion in excess capital over the next three years. The question is what should Mr. Dimon do with this windfall.
He already hopes to reinstate the dividend and may buy back shares, if regulators allow. But the veteran deal maker must be sorely tempted to go on a spending spree. Analysts are already talking up the benefits of acquisitions. Holding fire makes more sense. 
The obvious target at home is Atlanta's SunTrust. The lender's Florida, Georgia and South Carolina branches would fill JPMorgan's remaining domestic retail banking hole. And JPMorgan could scoop it up and still remain under the cap forbidding banks from buying their way above a 10 percent share of deposits.
But a deal wouldn't be easy. JPMorgan would probably have to write down a big chunk of SunTrust's loan book, particularly commercial real estate, which would argue for paying a discount to SunTrust's current $14 billion market cap. That's what M&T Bank did when it bought Wilmington Trust at a 45 percent discount.
But SunTrust's financials are improving -- it posted a profit in the third quarter after a run of losses -- so the board would naturally be loath to sell on the cheap without regulators forcing its hand. And SunTrust still holds $4.9 billion of government capital from the Troubled Asset Relief Program that JPMorgan's owners would have to assume.
Moreover, it may not be the best use of capital. Retail banking is hardly a fast-growing business in the United States. Scoping out investment opportunities abroad may be better. Mr. Dimon is bulking up the firm's international businesses, last year promoting Heidi Miller to oversee its expansion of services to corporations around the world.
But there's no need to rush. Europe's fiscal woes have probably heightened the appeal of shifting business to JPMorgan's solid balance sheet already. The longer the Continent's crisis continues, the more chance there is it will throw up some good bank assets at bargain prices -- and not just in Europe. Spanish banks, for example, have some juicy assets in Mexico and Latin America.
For now, at least, patience may be Mr. Dimon's best path to pleasing shareholders.
Rate-Setting Hawks
Are hawks with votes more likely to get their way? This year's voting members of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee include three forming a stronger hawkish group than last year's lonely Thomas M. Hoenig. Rocking the boat on the current round of quantitative easing is unlikely. But their differences with Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, may emerge on interest rates.
The 11 Fed presidents from outside New York rotate onto the committee four at a time, while the others still attend meetings even though they can't vote. Though policy decisions are led by Mr. Bernanke and the other most important voices are the New York Fed president, William C. Dudley, and the Fed vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, changes in the voting group can change the tone.
Mr. Hoenig, the Kansas City Fed boss, was the one member favoring less expansive monetary policy strongly enough to record his dissent publicly at every rate-setting meeting in 2010.
This year, Charles I. Plosser of Philadelphia, Richard W. Fisher of Dallas and Narayana R. Kocherlakota of Minneapolis have votes. Mr. Plosser and Mr. Fisher have indicated their preference for tighter monetary policy, while Mr. Kocherlakota's views seem to incline that way, too. The Philadelphia and Dallas representatives have, however, both indicated that they will probably not oppose the controversial bond purchasing program already in place -- known colloquially as QE2 -- although they want regular reviews before its scheduled expiration in June. Indeed, a sudden halt to such purchases, now priced into the bond market, could prove highly disruptive.
However, Mr. Plosser and Mr. Fisher have indicated that they would prefer rates above current levels -- to improve incentives for saving and to lessen the danger of inflation -- and they don't think a moderate rise in rates would hurt economic activity. Mr. Fisher has repeatedly proposed a rise in the Fed's discount rate, at which funds are lent to member banks. The committee next meets on Jan. 25-26. It's unlikely the new voting members will convert Mr. Bernanke. But if sharper private debate translates into public dissent, it's on interest rates that the new hawks may choose to show more talon.
ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This year, Richard W. Fisher of Dallas can vote when the Fed sets interest rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); MONETARY POLICY (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%); BEN BERNANKE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



365 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Gives Scathing Talk On Reform In Arab States

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton delivered a scalding critique of Arab leaders here on Thursday, saying their countries risked ''sinking into the sand'' of unrest and extremism unless they liberalized their political systems and cleaned up their economies.
Speaking at a conference in this gleaming Persian Gulf emirate, Mrs. Clinton recited a familiar litany of ills: corruption, repression and a lack of rights for women and religious minorities. But her remarks were striking for their vehemence, and they suggested a frustration that the Obama administration's message to the Arab world had not gotten through. 
''In too many places, in too many ways, the region's foundations are sinking into the sand,'' she said to a stone-faced audience of foreign ministers, businesspeople and rights groups. ''The new and dynamic Middle East that I have seen needs firmer ground if it is to take root and grow everywhere.''
Mrs. Clinton's remarks were delivered at the end of an intense, four-day tour of the Persian Gulf that took her from impoverished, autocratic Yemen to the prosperous, comparatively open sultanate of Oman. She also stopped in Abu Dhabi and Dubai before finishing in Qatar, a wealthy fief still exulting in its selection as the site of the World Cup soccer tournament in 2022.
As Mrs. Clinton delivered her critique, events echoed loudly in the background: unrest in Tunisia that threatened its government while serving to buttress her arguments; and a developing political crisis in Lebanon that illustrated both the range and the limits of American influence in the region.
The United States has little leverage over the pivotal players in Lebanon, notably the militant group Hezbollah, whose ministers walked out of the coalition government in Beirut on Wednesday, forcing its collapse.
While Mrs. Clinton applauded signs of progress in Qatar and elsewhere, it was Yemen, with its crippled economy and creeping subculture of Islamic terrorism, that seemed to stick in her mind.
A day after her visit Tuesday, the Yemeni government announced that for security reasons citizens would need permits to visit foreign embassies, according to the official news agency, Saba. Mrs. Clinton had met opposition figures at the American Embassy in the capital, Sana.
''Those who cling to the status quo may be able to hold back the full impact of their countries' problems for a little while, but not forever,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''If leaders don't offer a positive vision and give young people meaningful ways to contribute, others will fill the vacuum.''
She added, ''Extremist elements, terrorist groups and others who would prey on desperation and poverty are already out there, appealing for allegiance and competing for influence.''
Mrs. Clinton saved her most scathing remarks for corruption, which she said was corroding Arab economies and making life impossible for foreigners who ran businesses in Arab countries.
''Trying to get a permit,'' she said, ''you have to pass money through so many different hands. Trying to open up, you have to pay people off. Trying to stay open, you have to pay people off. Trying to export your goods, you have to pay people off. So by the time you pay everybody off, it's not a very profitable venture.''
Mrs. Clinton's audience listened silently, though the foreign minister of Bahrain, Sheik Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, calmly defended his country's record. Bahrain is much more open than a decade ago, he said, with major growth in advocacy groups and labor unions.
Even when Mrs. Clinton was pressed on why the Obama administration tolerated Israel's expansion of settlements in the West Bank -- an issue that rankles throughout the Arab world and has contributed to a breakdown of the Middle East peace process -- she pushed back.
The United States, she said, gazing pointedly around the room, fails to get a lot of countries to do what it wants. And she said that Americans bore a disproportionate burden of settling the world's conflicts.
Mrs. Clinton also noted that the United States was the top financial donor to the Palestinian Authority -- an implicit rebuke of Arab states, which champion the Palestinian cause but, in the view of critics, do too little to support its efforts to build institutions on the West Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); POLITICS (72%); WOMEN (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); RELIGION (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SOCCER (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (88%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) QATAR (94%); YEMEN (93%); GULF STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); OMAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TUNISIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



366 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With Barry Eichengreen

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A new series of blog posts -- Book Chat -- starts with Barry Eichengreen, author of a book on the rise and fall of the dollar.

 BODY:
This post starts a series on Economix called Book Chat. Each installment will be a short conversation, typically conducted by e-mail, with the author of a recent or imminent book on economics. As usual, we will define economics quite broadly.
Our first chat is with Barry Eichengreen, who has become a go-to economist on the continuing global financial crisis. Mr. Eichengreen's new book is "Exorbitant Privilege" (Oxford University Press). The subtitle summarizes it: "The Rise and Fall of the Dollar and the Future of the International Monetary System." Mr. Eichengreen is a professor at the University of California, Berkeley. We've previously mentioned his research comparing the early stages of this financial crisis with the early stages of the Great Depression -- and finding this crisis to have been more severe initially.
Mr. Eichengreen: For one thing, the direct costs to Americans of the dollar having to share its "exorbitant privilege" -- that it would no longer be the only true global currency -- will not be that great. By my calculations, having to share that status with, say, the renminbi and the euro might cost us 1 1/2 percent of G.D.P. (in the form of higher borrowing costs and more expensive imports) -- the equivalent of half a year's economic growth, which is significant but not a disaster.
The upside is that this new world would be a safer financial place. Before 2007, when we Americans were prone to excesses -- when we engaged in frenzied real estate speculation, for example -- foreigners desperate to accumulate dollars gave us more rope. In the future they will have alternatives, so our ability to indulge in those excesses will be less. 
Mr. Eichengreen: The transition away from a dollar-dominated international monetary and financial system is coming whether we like it or not -- I don't think that it's really possible to fight it. The issue, rather, is to secure a place for the dollar in the multiple-international-currency system that is coming. Were we to so bungle our fiscal and financial affairs that foreigners lost confidence in the dollar and shifted away from it en masse, then the costs to the U.S. would be considerably higher than the $225 billion you cite above.
Mr. Eichengreen: I write in the book that the U.S. has at most five years to get its fiscal house in order. You'll see from that recent blog post that I've now grown more pessimistic. For a crisis to happen already around the time of the 2012 election it would have to be precipitated by political events that unnerved investors. There would have to be a display of political discord so deep that investors concluded there was no way that the parties could work together to close the budget gap. There would have to be Congressional pressure on the Fed to resist raising its interest rates in response to inflation because higher rates would increase the government's funding costs. There would have to be opportunistic proposals to tax the Treasury bond interest paid to foreigners. Not my baseline scenario, but fiscal gridlock has produced such things. Just ask our Latin American friends for a history lesson.Mr. Eichengreen: Your question leaves the impression that something doesn't add up -- and it doesn't. Let me forever disqualify myself for public office by saying that part of the solution, unavoidably, will be higher taxes. Once interest rates return to normal levels, as they eventually will, interest on the federal debt alone will absorb a fifth or more of existing tax receipts. Options for closing the fiscal gap include raising tax rates, eliminating tax expenditures (the mortgage interest deduction, the charitable donation deduction), and scrapping the existing tax code for an alternative like a Value Added Tax set at rates where it generates more revenue. My preference is for a combination of options 1 and 2. I fear that option 3 would be an excuse to once again evade the issue. The other priority is bringing health care costs, which will grow explosively with the retirement of the baby boomers, under control. So the economics of your question are easy, the politics hard. Fortunately for me, I'm an economist.

        
Deficit Puzzle: Where's the Fair Tax?
        
The World Economic Order, Circa 2025
        
A Time for Radical Centrists
        
Tax Havens and Treasure Hunts 
        
The Dollar and Global Standing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); POLITICS (60%) Barry Eichengreen; Book Chat; budget deficit; debt; dollar; renminbi; taxes; VAT; United States Economy; US Dollar (Currency); Economix

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



367 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Interest Adds Up to a $1.3 Billion Bill for States

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
As if states did not have enough on their plates getting their shaky finances in order, a new bill is coming due -- from the federal government, which will charge them $1.3 billion in interest this fall on the billions they have borrowed from Washington to pay unemployment benefits during the downturn.
The interest cost, which has been looming in plain sight without attracting much attention, represents only a sliver of the huge deficits most states will have to grapple with this year But it comes as states are already cutting services, laying off employees and raising taxes. And it heralds a larger reckoning that many states will have to face before long: what to do about the $41 billion they have borrowed from the federal government to help them pay benefits to millions of unemployed people, a debt that federal officials say could rise to $80 billion.
The states, when they borrowed the money, hoped that the economy would have turned around by the time the first interest payments came due, or that future Congresses might loosen the terms. But the economy did not turn around in time and the new Congress, dominated by Republicans determined to shrink the size of government, shows little appetite for deepening the federal deficit by bailing out the states. 
The problem is not only the staggering number of people who have lost their jobs, but the fact that many states entered the downturn with too little money salted away in the trust funds they use to pay unemployment benefits, which they are supposed to build up in good times by taxing employers.
Those anemic trust funds ran dry quickly in many states as millions of newly jobless Americans began collecting benefits. So many states borrowed money from the federal government, helped by the stimulus act, which gave them a break on interest for nearly two years. But that grace period ended Dec. 31, and states will owe the first interest on those loans in September.
Michigan, which owes Washington $3.7 billion, is supposed to pay $117 million in interest by September -- just about what it pays each year to run Western Michigan University. California, which owes $362 million in interest on a total debt of $9.7 billion, the highest in the nation, plans to juggle its accounts, borrowing from a trust fund for disabled workers to pay interest to the federal government.
In New York, which owes $115 million in interest on $3.2 billion, the cost will be passed on to employers in the form of a tax surcharge. Texas went to the bond market and borrowed $2 billion to pay back all the money it borrowed from the federal government, judging that the interest on the bonds, which are backed by a tax on employers, would cost less.
Some states are planning to follow the lead of Texas, and borrow the money to repay the federal government. Others are asking for more time.
''During this time of extreme economic stress not only on the citizens of our states, but also on state budgets, state loan interest payments that will come due in September 2011 place further hardship on states' finances and could slow economic recovery,'' a group of 14 governors from both parties wrote to Congressional leaders last month. Their letter added: ''Extending the interest-free loans would allow states to avoid increasing payroll taxes, reducing benefits, or both, while the economic recovery continues.''
Many advocates believe that the new Republican majority in Congress, which has said it plans to focus on deficit reduction, may be hesitant to postpone collecting the interest. But they could face pressure from newly elected Republican governors in states like Michigan, Ohio, which owes $2.3 billion, and Florida, which owes $2 billion.
The effects of the problem are already being felt. While states are generally loath to increase taxes on businesses during a recession, for fear that it can discourage much-needed hiring, 35 states were forced to raise their state unemployment taxes on employers in 2010, according to a survey by the National Association of State Workforce Agencies.
If states are unable to repay their outstanding federal loans by November -- which will prove difficult for many -- nearly half the states could be forced to effectively raise federal taxes on employers by about $21 per worker, under a provision of federal law that automatically reduces the tax credits given to businesses in states that carry loans two years in a row. Businesses in Michigan, Indiana and South Carolina are already paying the higher federal tax.
But even with those effective federal tax increases, which would continue to rise each year the loan is not repaid, it could take years for some states to repay what they have borrowed.
''This is a problem that's going to persist because of the structural imbalances in the way this system is financed,'' said Patrick T. Beaty, a deputy secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry, who explained that Pennsylvania's unemployment tax base had not kept up with the rising cost of the benefits, leading to a chronic insolvency.
''Unless that's corrected, these loans are going to go on for years, even if the economy improves,'' he said.
Pennsylvania, one of a handful of states that make both workers and employers pay into its unemployment program, is activating a dormant state ''interest tax'' to pay the $102 million it expects to owe the federal government this year. It owes Washington $3.1 billion, and officials expect the debt to grow to $3.7 billion by the end of the year. Even with the rising federal tax on employers each year, Mr. Beaty said, Pennsylvania could end up owing the federal government $4.3 billion eight years from now.
The state debts are the highest they have been in the 75-year history of the nation's unemployment program. They are unrelated to the extra weeks of unemployment benefits that Congress agreed to pay for in the stimulus, and then extended late last year as part of the tax cut compromise -- those extended weeks are paid for with federal money. The borrowing that many states were forced to do was in order to simply continue paying their basic unemployment benefits, which generally last up to 26 weeks.
The last time state borrowing even approached this level was after the recession of the early 1980s. It took years for many states to repay the debts then, and sparked states to raise taxes on businesses, reduce benefits for the unemployed and borrow money on the bond market -- a range of unappealing options for distressed states during a downturn.
Right now, 30 states owe money to the federal government for their unemployment programs. Many of them tried to keep their unemployment taxes low in recent decades as states have competed with one another to lure companies and jobs. Now, although unemployment taxes are low by historic standards, the states face the strong possibility that they will have to take action at the worst possible time, raising taxes on employers at a time of low hiring, and cutting benefits when they are most needed.
States are beginning to try to deal with the short-term problem.
In West Virginia, which has not had to borrow unemployment money from the federal government, Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, used his state of the state speech last week to call for propping up the state's unemployment reserves with $20 million from its rainy day fund. And a bill was introduced in Arizona this month that would temporarily raise taxes on employers to repay both the principal and interest of the $258 million the state has had to borrow so far. One of the bill's sponsors, State Representative Bob Robson, a Republican representing Chandler, said that many businesses understand the need to take action.
''They recognize that this needs to be done,'' he said in an interview, ''or the cost would be more prohibitive in the future.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Payback Time: Thirty states owe the federal government $41 billion for money they borrowed to pay for basic unemployment benefits during the recession. The first interest payments are due in September. (Source: Dept. of Labor) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BONDS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX INCREASES (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); DISABLED WORKERS (72%); BOND MARKETS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



368 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Vehicle of Street Food Is Getting an Overhaul

BYLINE: By TODD LAPPIN

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Chef Hugh Schick has cooked in some of the finest kitchens in the land. He took classes at the Culinary Institute of America, studied under the Italian food expert Marcella Hazan and served as a private chef for the likes of the writer Christopher Hitchens and the venture capitalist David Cowan.
But when Mr. Schick and his business partner, Blake Tally, decided to open Le Truc, a San Francisco ''bustaurant,'' with a gourmet kitchen and dedicated seating area inside a converted school bus, the two quickly learned that the kitchens in food trucks are very different from their brick-and-mortar equivalents.
''It's basically like buying a trailer home,'' Mr. Schick said. ''You get a kitchen that's not designed by a chef, but by an engineer who's simply trying to figure out where to make things fit.'' 
As Mr. Schick and other chefs seek to take more exotic foods like agedashi tofu and foie gras torchon to the streets and sidewalks of San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York, they are demanding a host of upgrades to the traditional catering trucks, from teppanyaki grills to vertical chicken rotisseries.
And those who manufacture catering trucks are rushing to accommodate such special requests, which have rescued their industry from a recession-induced plunge in demand for the more traditional taco and hamburger trucks.
''We're seeing demand for customization based on specific menus or food concepts, which may mean installing a pizza oven or a baking oven for cupcakes,'' said Richard Gomez, customer sales engineer and plant controller at AA Cater Truck, the largest food truck manufacturer in the country. ''There's also a lot more emphasis on marketing and graphics. Trucks used to be just white, but now customers want to make their trucks look like celebrities.''
Founded in 1965, AA Cater Truck operates from a sprawling facility here in central Los Angeles, where the food trucks are designed, built, financed, sold and serviced.
A sister company, Hivco, a manufacturer of the delivery vehicles known as step vans, operates under the same roof. New vehicles arrive at the plant as stripped-down chassis assemblies that include wheels, a drivetrain, a steering wheel, a dashboard, a driver's seat -- and nothing more.
Hivco manufactures a specially reinforced body for each vehicle, while AA Cater Truck builds and installs standard interior fittings like griddles, fryers, refrigerators, sinks, water tanks, counters and food storage bins. A standard AA food truck sells for $124,000 new, but adding specialized kitchen equipment and appearance enhancements can push the cost up to $250,000.
The recent surge in gourmet food trucks came at a perfect time for the makers of food trucks. ''The last three years were very tough on us,'' Mr. Gomez said.
In Los Angeles, many food truck operators were driven out of business as their customers at construction and manufacturing sites lost their jobs. Orders for new trucks dried up and inventories of used and repossessed catering trucks piled up. For a while, AA had nearly 100 used food trucks for sale on its lot, compared with an average of 10 before the downturn.
But the downturn also hurt brick-and-mortar restaurants in Los Angeles, creating a pool of chefs and food professionals looking for work. Eventually, some of those unemployed people discovered the city's stockpile of unemployed food trucks.
''Gourmet trucks are now our leading customer,'' said Mr. Gomez. Over all, business is still down, from 26 trucks sold a month to six or seven now. But after shrinking from 150 employees to just 50, AA is hiring again.
In metropolitan areas, the economics of starting a gourmet food truck compare favorably to opening a brick-and-mortar restaurant, where $850,000 to $1.5 million in start-up capital is typically needed to secure a lease, renovate a space, equip a kitchen and hire staff, according to the restaurant consultant Clark Wolf. Going mobile reduces those costs to $200,000 or less, with additional savings possible if the owner can locate a used food truck in good condition for around $90,000.
''It's a good business for people who can't get traditional jobs and who are forced to be entrepreneurial,'' said Josh Tang, co-founder and chief executive of Mobi Munch, a San Francisco start-up that plans to rent food trucks to established chefs and restaurateurs.
Over the next five years, Mobi Munch hopes to put 300 to 500 mobile food trucks made by AA on the streets nationwide. Mobi Munch will rent the trucks on a monthly basis, allowing entrepreneurs to explore the potential of what Mr. Tang calls ''the mobile platform.'' Each Mobi Munch truck will be a turnkey system, with a fully equipped kitchen and a cash register connected wirelessly to a central database.
Yet some food businesses, like Lake Street Creamery, require more customization. Gary Ferguson, a former Northwest Airlines pilot who co-founded the gourmet ice cream maker, had no need for the usual grills or steam tables.
Instead, he hired Armenco Cater Truck Manufacturing to outfit a used step-body truck with a custom freezer system and an Emery Thompson hard ice cream machine.
All the ice cream sold from the Lake Street Creamery truck is made inside the vehicle, and business is thriving. On a good day, it sells $11 worth of ice cream a minute, but volume is critical, and Mr. Ferguson said the key to success was to ensure the truck was tailored to the business.
''The food concept has to match the truck so you can serve quickly,'' Mr. Ferguson said. ''No one wants to wait for 20 minutes outside a truck.''
Like AA Cater Trucks, Armenco was also hit hard by the recession. ''I thought we might have to shut down,'' said Arthur Djahani, whose family owns and runs Armenco. Because of the gourmet trend, however, Armenco's small manufacturing facility in Sun Valley, Calif., is now busy.
Amid the recent surge of work, one of Armenco's hardest projects was the bus for Le Truc. Apart from the challenge of installing a full kitchen in the back of a school bus, the bus itself required substantial reinforcement. The kitchen had to be not only functional, but also stylish since customers in the seating area would see it. That meant adding flourishes like copper-surfaced fittings and full-length skylights.
Looking ahead, both Mr. Djahani and Mr. Tang see more established restaurants getting into the mobile business. Armenco, for example, has already built a truck for the Sizzler chain.
''For existing restaurants, it's a very natural extension of their business,'' Mr. Tang said. ''They already have the kitchen and the staff.''
Mr. Djahani also expects more demand for kitchens in a wider range of vehicles, the better to stand out. ''We now get a lot of requests for different kinds of platforms that might offer more space -- things like buses and Airstream trailers,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In San Francisco, diners aboard the gourmet ''bustaurant'' Le Truc sit next to the kitchen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD LAPPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (75%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (70%); SALES FORCE (68%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



369 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Australian Towns Band Together for Flood Cleanup

BYLINE: By AUBREY BELFORD

 BODY:
GRANTHAM, Australia -- For Allan Marshall, this tiny Australian town has always been a tightly knit place, never more so than in days since a surging, flotsam-filled torrent hit the town, smashing apart homes and sweeping neighbors to their deaths.
A few buildings on highland remain, including the school where many locals now stay. Below, those homes not entirely destroyed were blasted sideways by the deluge, which began on Monday and has filled the town with the reek of river mud. In the fields, scores of crumpled cars, farm equipment, shipping containers and a boat were strewn over kilometers of sodden ground. 
Mr. Marshall's elderly father was drowned at home in the flood -- a force akin to ''a roaring thunder'' -- but he said he still considers himself lucky.
''The difference is with me, I've lost me father, they've recovered him and I'm able to have closure,'' he said. ''There's a lot of people that still hasn't got closure yet and may not have closure for another three or four, five days.''
As waters receded across much of the flood-ravaged northeastern state of Queensland on Friday, people began to count the cost and tentatively rebuild from one of Australia's worst natural disasters. Floods since late last year across a region more than twice the size of California have inundated tens thousands of homes and businesses and caused billions of dollars in damage and economic loss.
In the state capital of Brisbane, residents and soldiers cleared muck from streets and homes in an effort to return life to normal a day after the swollen Brisbane River burst its banks, swamping entire suburbs. Further south, floodwaters continued to surge both in Queensland and the neighboring state of New South Wales. Separate flooding in Victoria state forced the evacuation of around 2,000 people, The Associated Press reported.
In Grantham, population 347, the violence of the disaster is more apparent than most places; the town remains sealed off by police and the Army under the same law that close off a crime scene. The mayor of the surrounding region of Lockyer Valley, Steve Jones, said many parts of town will have to be demolished before being rebuilt.
But in the face of the crisis, locals here, like flood hit areas across this sprawling tropical state, have banded together in cooperation, something that politicians and residents frequently say exemplifies the self-image of Australia -- and in particular Queensland -- as a place of rugged stoics.
Officials are unsure how many people died in Grantham, but say the surrounding Lockyer Valley and the nearby town of Toowoomba account for the majority of the 16 people killed across Queensland in the last week of flooding on top of 10 more people killed in previous weeks.
More than 28 people, including some Grantham residents, remain missing across the state. Powerful waters mean many bodies likely remain buried beneath debris and silt; one victim was found washed 80 kilometers down the valley.
Many in the town owe their lives to two men, Ray Van Dyke and Daniel Moore, who waded into swirling waters on Monday and rescued dozens of townspeople from their homes, picking a path door to door through churning debris.
''It's ground zero, mate, it's just out of control,'' said Mr. Van Dyke, a prison guard known in town as ''Stingray''.
''It's crazy, I don't know where I got my strength from, it was just adrenaline.''
Chris Short, a neighbor whose daughter was among those saved by Mr. Van Dyke and Mr. Moore, said the main concern now was waiting for permission to re-enter homes and rebuild.
''It's a very, very tight communal sphere here and yeah it's just frustration at the moment waiting for the heads up to go ahead and do stuff,'' Mr. Short said. ''Just finding out friends are dead, people you spoke to on Monday morning aren't there anymore. That hurts, that really, really hurts.''
Arriving by helicopter and then a convoy of cars, Prime Minister Julia Gillard and state Premier Anna Bligh pledged rapid government assistance. After surveying the town, Ms. Bligh remarked of the town, ''It looks like a war zone, not a flood.''
In many other areas of the state, the damage is less complete. Destruction follows a patchwork of broken levees and overwhelmed embankments; the pattern is more of a rising ooze than a raging torrent.
In the city of Ipswich, between Grantham and Brisbane, residents said many had forgotten the immediate threat of floods, which last struck the town on any comparably catastrophic scale in 1974. While flooding is part of the natural boom and bust weather cycle in this subtropical corner of Australia, most suffering in recent years has been caused by a decade long drought.
At the house of Martin and Michelle Lemeszko, neighbors relaxed from work on the second floor veranda near roof-height mud. In the yard, a story-high water tank lay crumpled like a soft drink can and clothes stayed pegged up on a muddy line.
One Ipswich neighbor, Zac Earl, said he had been working with little sleep at neighbors' homes since floodwaters surged to unexpected highs in the town on Tuesday. Working together was the first time he met many neighbors, he said.
''We call it Aussie spirit, mate. It's what you do over here in times like this. Everybody jumps in and helps out,'' he said.
''We've already talked about when we get this done we're going to have the biggest street party you've ever seen.''
But Mr. Earl conceded not all city residents were consumed with a civic spirit. Much of his night time work has consisted of watching out for looters. Police said 10 people were charged with looting in Brisbane and Ipswich on Friday.
''I've seen one car come down here last night and he started doing a burnout and I told him to piss off, and I used more extreme words than that,'' Mr. Earl said.
Across the street, another neighbor picking through an entirely ruined home, Darin Preston, said he had received great amounts of help from friends and family, but cringed at any nationalistic explanation for the outpouring of support.
Generosity and support are far more universal traits than many think, he said.
''I think it's a particular rough time of the year if you want to talk about jingoism because it's Australia Day,'' he said, referring to the upcoming national holiday on January 26.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUBURBS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (79%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



370 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: BP Forms Partnership To Explore In Russia

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
The British oil giant BP agreed on Friday to a partnership with Rosneft, a Russian company, forming an alliance to explore the Russian Arctic.
In a share swap under the partnership agreement, the state-owned Rosneft would hold a 5 percent stake in BP while BP would hold 9.5 percent of Rosneft. The deal is worth about $7.8 billion.
The two companies would explore three license blocks on the Russian Arctic continental shelf that were awarded to Rosneft last year and span about 50,000 square miles. 
The deal is a coup for Robert Dudley, an American who became chief of BP in September and had pledged to rebuild the company's reputation after the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
To help cover the estimated $40 billion in damage claims resulting from the spill, BP has moved to sell about $30 billion in assets, including Pan American, an oil producer in Argentina, to the Bridas Corporation for $7.1 billion.
That deal, announced in November, put BP's total asset sales at about $21 billion. BP has also sold assets in Pakistan, Venezuela, Vietnam and the United States.
The agreement allows BP to expand its operation in Russia at a time when the demand for energy is rising and competition to explore new fields is heating up.
''We are very pleased to be joining Russia's leading oil company to jointly explore some of the most promising parts of the Russian Arctic, one of the world's last remaining unexplored basins,'' Mr. Dudley said in a statement.
''This unique agreement underlines our long-term, strategic and deepening links with the world's largest hydrocarbon-producing nation,'' he added.
The deal drew immediate calls for a review by a lawmaker in Washington, who noted that BP was the top petroleum supplier to the United States military in 2009.
The lawmaker, Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts, who is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, called for a thorough analysis of the deal.
''If this agreement affects the national and economic security of the United States, then it should be immediately reviewed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States,'' Mr. Markey said in a statement. ''Additionally, the U.S. State Department should closely monitor this transaction.''
The foreign investment committee is coordinated by the Treasury and has the authority to examine foreign purchases of stakes in American companies and to block deals that threaten national security.
''This acquisition will almost certainly complicate the politics of levying and collecting damages from BP following their Gulf of Mexico oil spill,'' Mr. Markey said.
As part of the agreement, Rosneft and BP will set up an Arctic technology center in Russia ''to develop technologies and engineering practices for the safe extraction of hydrocarbon resources from the Arctic shelf,'' the companies said in a joint statement.
Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, said that he supported the partnership and that his government could back the drilling project in the Arctic Ocean with tax breaks, Bloomberg News reported.
The agreement was negotiated by Mr. Dudley and Igor Sechin, Russia's deputy prime minister and Rosneft's chairman. BP's chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, said BP's board ''believes that the combination of assets and skills will unlock significant value and thus the issue of shares to Rosneft is in the interests of all shareholders.'' BP and Rosneft said they viewed their stakes in each other as ''long term and strategic.''
BP and Rosneft have cooperated on projects in the past. They explored deposits off Sakhalin Island in Russia and became partners at the German Ruhr Oel refiner after Rosneft bought the stake BP did not own.
The new partnership showed that Mr. Dudley was able to keep his strong ties in Russia even after he was removed as head of BP's Russian joint venture, TNK-BP, three years ago after BP fell out with its Russian billionaire partners.
Mr. Dudley was named chief executive of BP after his predecessor, Tony Hayward, stepped down after the explosion in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 workers and caused tens of billions of dollars in damage. In his first step as chief executive, he reorganized the company's critical exploration and production business, removing the unit's head, and set out to establish a global safety division.
BP had a net profit of $1.79 billion in the third quarter of last year, down from $5.34 billion a year earlier, after it set aside additional money to cover the costs of the oil spill.
Rosneft produces some 2.4 million barrels of oil equivalent, making it the country's top producer, and has annual pretax profit of about $8.5 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Dudley, left, the chief executive of BP, with Eduard Khudainatov, the president of Rosneft, on Friday in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE MacGREGOR/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); DAMAGES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); ENGINEERING (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (95%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (90%); BRIDAS CORP (69%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (95%); BP (LSE) (95%); ROSN (RTS) (90%); ROSN (LSE) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: ROBERT DUDLEY (78%); EDWARD J MARKEY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ARCTIC (91%); ARGENTINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



371 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Financial Sector Helps S.&P. Extend Its Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for a seventh consecutive week on Friday, led by financial companies after JPMorgan Chase released an encouraging earnings report. 
Strength in financial stocks helped offset economic reports that showed soft December retail sales and consumer confidence that was hurt by rising gasoline prices. The market's resilience will be tested next week when a number of banks report results.
''On balance, with supporting prices and in spite of mixed economic data, there is expectation of a strong earnings season,'' said James D. Awad, managing director at Zephyr Management in New York.
JPMorgan Chase shares added 1 percent to $44.91 after reporting stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. Its stock has risen 5.9 percent in the first two weeks of the year.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 55.48 points, or 0.47 percent, to 11,787.38. The S.& P. 500 rose 9.48 points, or 0.74 percent, to 1,293.24. The Nasdaq composite gained 20.01 points, or 0.73 percent, to 2,755.30.
For the week, the Dow ended up 1 percent, the S.& P. 500 rose 1.7 percent and the Nasdaq composite climbed 1.9 percent. Financial markets in the United States will be closed on Monday for Martin Luther King's Birthday.
John Schlitz, the chief United States market technician at Instinet in New York, said the seven weeks of gains in the S.& P. were historically a warning sign for declines, which are not uncommon in the second half of January.
The last time the benchmark rose eight or more weeks in a row was a nine-week run between November 2003 and January 2004.
The S.& P. Midcap 400 index set a record high, rising 0.7 percent to 931.07. The index includes companies with market capitalizations of about $750 million to $3.3 billion.
Higher gasoline prices helped push December consumer prices up at their fastest rate in a year and a half.
The high prices also weighed on consumer sentiment in early January, according to a Reuters/University of Michigan survey. At $3.09 a gallon, gasoline is the highest since October 2008.
Consumer spending noticeably slowed in 2008 as gasoline prices spiked.
Increasing oil prices have contributed to a rise in the S.& P. energy index, which advanced 1.2 percent to close at the highest since September 2008 in another sign of an overextended market.
A Dow component, Intel, fell 1 percent to $21.08 a day after it posted a better-than-expected quarterly profit and forecast strong revenue for the coming quarter.
For the third consecutive quarter, shares of the chip maker moved in the opposite direction of the S.& P. 500 a day after it reported earnings, casting a shadow over the its ability to influence the market.
Interest rates were slightly higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 6/32, to 94 6/32, and the yield rose to 3.32 percent from 3.30 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (61%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); INTEL CORP (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



372 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Up Smartly; Consumer Prices Rise

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Retail sales rose in December, contributing to a quarter of stronger consumer spending during the holiday shopping season, economists and government reports said on Friday.
The Department of Commerce said that sales in December were helped by big gains in vehicles and furniture, and seasonally adjusted, were up 0.6 percent from the previous month. That was slightly less than the 0.8 percent forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Still, last month's retail sales were nearly 8 percent higher than December a year ago, while the fourth quarter figure rose 7.8 percent. For all of 2010, retail sales added 6.6 percent, the largest yearly gain since 1999. 
''It was clearly a step up in growth in consumer spending for the quarter,'' the chief economist at MF Global, James O'Sullivan, said. Personal consumption was up as much as 4 percent in the last three months of 2010, economists said, the strongest quarter since 2006.
While the numbers were signs of a slowly improving economy, economists noted that the recovery was still not on solid ground. Reports on Friday for consumer prices and industrial production showed the tentativeness of the improvements.
Steve Blitz, the senior economist for ITG Investment Research, said most consumers ''are still negatively impacted by too much debt, too little employment, and poor income growth, and therefore remain hunkered down as far as spending is concerned.''
Another measure of retail sales that excludes automobile sales, gasoline and building materials showed a modest 0.2 percent rise in December, although that category was up nearly 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter. The figures suggest that retailers bolstered sales in October and November by using discounts, which shifted purchases forward. That, and the unusually cold weather, cut into December sales, economists said.
''Once we get January numbers and see the pick-up from sales lost due to weather, we will have a more complete picture of the holiday season,'' Mr. Blitz said. ''Over all, however, retail sales are better and recovering but far from recovered.''
Many retailers reported that their sales slowed in the latter part of the fourth quarter, and analysts said that was partly because of the weather. On Friday, the toy manufacturer Hasbro said its fourth-quarter sales were now expected to bring in $1.3 billion compared with $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009.
''We no longer believe we will grow revenues for the year due to a slowdown in U.S. consumer demand, which we experienced late in the fourth quarter,'' Hasbro's chief executive, Brian Goldner, said in a statement.
Consumer sentiment had been expected to improve, at least according to one gauge. Economists had envisioned an improvement to 75.5 in the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index, but instead it showed a decline to 72.7 this month, which some economists said could have been attributed to higher energy prices.
But the retail statistics, although softer than forecasts, were seen as vibrant enough to suggest that consumption in the fourth quarter of 2010, while not as robust as previously thought, would contribute to gross domestic product. Economists from Goldman Sachs said in a research note on Friday that they expected that the economy grew 3 percent in the last quarter of 2010.
Some economists said that they expected a reduction in payroll taxes in 2011, under a new tax deal, could help consumption but they questioned how far that would go to sustain the upward trend in 2011 as a weak job market continued to pose a challenge.
''Disposable incomes are going to get a bump because of payroll taxes, which might help in the first quarter,'' said Paul Ashworth, the chief United States economist for Capital Economics. ''But overall income growth depends on what happens in the labor market, and we still have weak employment growth.''
When taken together with the consumer price report, December's retail sales suggested that real consumption accelerated to its strongest quarter for four years, according to a research note from Capital Economics.
The Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent last month, driven by an 8.5 percent rise in energy prices, according to the government statistics released on Friday. The increase topped expectations.
It was the largest rise in prices since June 2009. Consumer prices are now up an annualized 1.5 percent, the figures show. The core C.P.I., excluding food and energy, rose 0.1 percent. While rents accelerated, economists do not expect increases to be sufficient to build to a troubling level of inflation this year.
''The trend in inflation has been down,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''I think the net result is we may have seen the end of deceleration.''
The Federal Reserve, which has set an unofficial goal of 2 percent inflation, reported on Friday that industrial production rose in December by the largest amount in five months. Manufacturing, utilities and mining sectors advanced in December, including revisions, pushing the country's overall industrial production up 0.8 percent in December, and nearly 6 percent in the year.
The monthly rise was slightly higher than forecast, with utilities output showing a notable rise because of adverse weather in December. Major manufacturing output was up 0.4 percent with the exception of vehicles and construction supplies.
The Federal Reserve statistics showed there was still excess capacity in manufacturing.
''The recovery is still moving forward, but there is little evidence here of any pending acceleration in the nation's overall output growth,'' said Brian Bethune, the chief United States financial economist for IHS Global Insight.
Thomas J. Duesterberg, the president and chief executive of the Manufacturers Alliance, said some areas of the manufacturing sector could rebound in 2011, including vehicles, which could partly be helped by an aging car fleet, and energy equipment, for which global demand was accelerating and the United States had an advantage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bad weather in December may have held back shopping, but not discounts. Here shoppers brave the snow in Union Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); WEATHER (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (87%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (81%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

PERSON: BRIAN GOLDNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



373 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING MERGERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Community Health Seeks Board Seats at Tenet

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
12:48 p.m. Updated Community Health Systemssaid on Friday that it would seek to replace the board of Tenet Healthcare, as it pursues a $3.3 billion hostile takeover of its smaller competitor. 
The proxy fight follows Tenet's strong rejection of Community's $6-a-share cash-and-stock bid as undervalued and its adoption of a poison pill aimed at preventing any shareholder from gaining more than a 4.9 percent stake in the company.
Tenet also amended its corporate bylaws to move its shareholder meeting to Nov. 3, from its usual time in May.
Community said that it planned to name 10 directors to Tenet's board, with four alternates.
''Tenet's highly paid board has clearly demonstrated its entrenchment,'' Community's chairman and chief executive, Wayne T. Smith, said in a statement. ''Tenet shareholders deserve better.''
Tenet responded quickly with its own statement: ''We believe that Community Health has nominated its slate of director candidates only to advance its goal of acquiring Tenet at an inadequate price. We are confident that the continued execution of our strategic plan will deliver significantly more value to our stockholders than Community Health's inadequate proposal''
The directors nominees are:
Thomas M. Bourdreau, a former senior executive at Express ScriptsDuke K. Bristow, an economist at the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business and a former executive at Eli LillyJohn E. Horbneak, an executive-in-residence at Trinity University's department of healthcare administrationCurtis S. Lane, a senior managing director at the boutique investment bank MTS Health PartnersDouglas E. Linton, a consultantPeter H. Rotschild, an executive at Daroth CapitalJohn A. Sedor, the chief executive of CPEX PharmaceuticalsSteven J. Shulman, an operating partner at Water Street Healthcare Partners and Tower Three PartnersDaniel S. Van Riper, a financial consultant and former executive at Sealed AirDavid J. Wenstrup, an adviser with the Clinton Climate Initiative and a former executive at Warburg Pincus
Community is being advised by Credit Suisse, the law firm Kirkland & Ellis and the proxy solicitor D.F. King. Its board nominees are being advised by the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr.
Tenet is being advised by Barclays Capital and the law firms Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and Debevoise & Plimpton.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%)

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (82%); GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (82%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (82%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (53%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (52%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



374 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Older Workers Are Keeping a Tighter Grip on Jobs

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE American work force is getting older. More people over 55 are working while fewer people under that age are employed.
The Labor Department's household survey in December found that 28.2 million people over 55 years of age had jobs, an increase of 7.6 percent from three years earlier, when the recession was beginning. 
By contrast, there were fewer jobs held by people in all age groups under 55, as can be seen in the accompanying charts. Over all, the number of people working was down by 4.9 percent.
Thirty years ago, one in seven jobs in the United States was held by a person who was 55 or older. Today the proportion is one in five.
Changing demographics can explain part of the change. As baby boomers age, the number of people over 55 has increased. But another reason for the change seems to be that fewer older workers who have jobs are willing to retire while fewer younger people are even looking for work.
The fact that a lower proportion of people under 25 are in the labor force -- either working or looking for work -- could reflect a decision by more of them to further their education. But there is also a drop in labor force participation by workers older than 25.
Among men, the proportion of those 45 to 54 in the labor force has fallen to 86.2 percent. That is the lowest since the government began computing the figure in 1948. Similarly, the proportion of men 35 to 44 has dropped to 90.9 percent, also the lowest on record. The figure for men 25 to 34 hit a record low of 89 percent in November before ticking up to 89.1 percent in December.
Among women, the figures have also fallen, although the long-term trend toward more women working means that levels are well above where they were decades ago. Over all, the proportion of adult women in the work force is the lowest it has been since 1993.
All those figures are based on seasonally adjusted data released by the Labor Department. The department collects data on employment of narrower age ranges, but does not try to adjust the figures for seasonal variations. That makes it dubious to compare such figures except against the same month in earlier years.
The charts show the figures for last month versus the same month in 2007. In total, there are fewer workers in every age group under 55, and more workers in every age group over that age. The trends are the same for men, but vary a little for women. There are fewer women over 75 with jobs, and more within the age range of 50 to 54. There is also a small increase for the group 30 to 34 years of age.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Less Pain for Older Workers: Employment numbers for workers above age 55 have improved since the end of 2007. For all other age groups, the situation has worsened. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); MEN (74%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



375 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Improvising Concert Into Rousing Sermon

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
NEWARK -- ''Dr. King's legacy says to us, don't you throw in the towel,'' Shirley Caesar admonished at about the 10th minute of a short and brilliant performance at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center on Thursday night. She was already in gear: her kind face had set into fierce muscle. ''Don't you give up,'' she said. ''Don't you accept everything a doctor says to you.''
It was a Martin Luther King's Birthday program, dealing out inspiration in heaps, and Ms. Caesar, the great gospel singer who is also a pastor at Mount Calvary Word of Faith Church in Raleigh, N.C., represented only half of it. 
She had been preceded by a speech from Shavar Jeffries, a Newark resident who overcame tough straits to become a law professor and president of the Newark Public Schools Advisory Board. He spoke about Dr. King's life and didn't mince words about what we need his courage to face. He used the word crisis; he talked about domestic violence, the economy, housing, schools.
The audience had watched a video of a Dr. King speech, a version of his ''street sweeper'' set piece: ''If a man is called to be a street sweeper, he should sweep streets even as Michelangelo painted.''
But back to Shirley Caesar. ''God made our bodiesssss,'' she said, drawing out that word like a challenge. ''I tell you, don't mess with me tonight. Get that handkerchief for my feet!'' One of her four backup singers did as instructed and waved it down by her shoes. And Ms. Caesar -- an intense, compact 72-year-old, an extraordinary singer even now, 44 years after she left the Caravans, the Chicago gospel group that made her famous -- started kicking, low and fast.
The band simmered without a beat, and she introduced ''You Can Make It'': ''Just as long as the Lord is on my side, I'm gonna make it.'' She waved her right hand down by her hip, dismissively, as if putting distractions aside, or just saying, I got this. ''You find a lump in your breast, you're gonna make it,'' she said.
Now she was singing: ''Still I believe -- would you believe, Shirley Ann? -- that I'm gonna make it. When they said I couldn't, I did.''
The band was vamping now. Ms. Caesar improvised a lot, in phrasing and in text. She was singing about improvising too, about finding your own way in health and faith, living and retribution. The whole concert, and the whole evening, really, was a lesson in getting around blockades: prejudices, debts, bad marriages, health problems, loss of faith, the lip of the stage.
Its centerpiece, a 30-minute version of ''Jesus, I Love Calling Your Name,'' became a concert in itself. ''Nobody can tell me that God isn't real,'' she began. ''Nobody. I heard somebody say that Atlas is holding up the world. Don't they know that somebody's holding up Atlas?''
She gestured for the band to quiet down, and she called softly, pinching down her voice to a rustle, only the first syllable audible: ''Je ...''
''Why is it that when you go after the enemy,'' she said, opening her eyes and changing subjects, ''you turn on those loud sirens? You give him time to get away! What you have to do is slip up on him.''
She asked for the help of two strong men, who lifted her down into the audience. ''We got Saddam,'' she said. ''Now we're gonna go after been-lyin', been-killin' bin Laden.'' She hustled through the front rows, looking under coats, lifting up scarves and hats and crutches.
Then, moving aisle to aisle, making the theater her house and the audience her family, she returned to topic A: ''Jesus, how I love calling your name; every day your name is the same.''
Slowly, audience members came to her microphone to sing a phrase: young, old, middle-aged. Soon there were streams of them. Some were great. When they were, Ms. Caesar fell forward on them, arms outstretched, then stood aside and let them take over. Some were terrible, and she snatched the microphone back.
Most were dressed up, turned out. But when one excellent and rumpled singer came up to shout a few lines -- a short woman in jeans and a dark peacoat -- Ms. Caesar first fell on her, then positioned herself behind her, and respectfully, intimately, as if with a daughter or a niece, picked bits of lint off her back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shirley Caesar at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (52%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



376 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, Stressing a Regional Policy, Says Distrust Lingers in U.S.-China Relations

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States is not bent on containing China, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Friday, but the Obama administration is cultivating other allies across Asia to help it manage Beijing's increasingly bold projection of military and economic power.
In a closely watched address delivered four days before President Hu Jintao's scheduled state visit to Washington, Mrs. Clinton sought to balance tensions over China's military buildup and disagreements over North Korea with the administration's desire to work with Beijing on issues like climate change. 
''Distrust lingers on both sides,'' she said in her speech at the State Department.
Mrs. Clinton said that while the United States-China relationship was critically important, ''there is no such thing as a G-2,'' the phrase popularized by analysts who argue that Washington and Beijing, widely seen as the economic superpowers of today and tomorrow, should steer the world.
She also delivered a polite criticism of China's human rights record that was more detailed than she had previously offered as secretary of state, citing the persecution of the pro-democracy group Charter 08 and the imprisonment of Liu Xiaobo, the political activist who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize but whose family was blocked from attending the prize ceremony in Norway last month.
''The longer China represses freedoms,'' she said, ''the longer that Nobel Prize winners' empty chairs in Oslo will remain a symbol of a great nation's unrealized potential and unfulfilled promise.''
Mrs. Clinton's speech -- on the heels of an economic address by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and a visit to Beijing by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates -- sets the stage for what some analysts say is the most important visit by a Chinese leader to the United States in years.
While Mr. Geithner and Mr. Gates tackled two clear irritants in the relationship -- China's undervalued currency and the increasingly defiant People's Liberation Army -- Mrs. Clinton confronted a broader set of strategic tensions, including China's testy relations with its neighbors and its reluctance to bear down on a belligerent North Korea.
''Some in the region and some here at home see China's growth as a threat that will lead either to cold war-style conflict or American decline,'' she said. ''And some in China worry that the United States is bent on containing their rise and constraining their growth -- a view that is stoking a new streak of assertive Chinese nationalism. We reject those views.''
Nevertheless, Mrs. Clinton spoke at length about the administration's work to reinforce ties with cold war allies like Japan and South Korea, to restore long-neglected relationships with countries in Southeast Asia and to court emerging powers like India.
Last July, Mrs. Clinton infuriated Chinese officials when she thrust the United States into a long-running dispute between China and its neighbors over control of some small, strategically important islands in the South China Sea. The United States, analysts said, put a spotlight on China's bullying behavior.
''We are working to firmly embed our relationship with China within a broader regional framework, because it is inseparable from the Asia-Pacific's web of security alliances,'' she said.
To experts on China in the audience, the message was unmistakable.
''She's saying, 'We're still trying to have a reciprocal relationship, but if it doesn't work, we're hedging our bets,' '' said Orville Schell, who heads the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society.
Mrs. Clinton said that China had cooperated in imposing international sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. And she said China was finally starting to help the United States try to restrain North Korea's behavior after the torpedoing of a South Korean warship and a deadly artillery raid.
''We fear, and have discussed this in depth with our Chinese friends, that failure to respond clearly to the sinking of a South Korea military vessel would embolden North Korea to continue on a dangerous course,'' she said.
Mrs. Clinton also reinforced points made by Mr. Geithner and Mr. Gates. She said that China needed to let its currency rise more rapidly to ease the trade imbalance with the United States. And she contended that the Chinese military should be open to more extensive ties with the Pentagon to ease American concerns about its motives.
For all that, Mrs. Clinton was clearly not trying to provoke China. She spoke of global challenges, like climate change and development, in which Beijing and Washington should work together.
Mrs. Clinton's speech inaugurated a lecture series dedicated to Richard C. Holbrooke, the hard-charging diplomat who died last month. Early in his career, he served as assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, the youngest holder of that post to date.
Noting that Mr. Holbrooke had played a role in the normalization of diplomatic relations with China in 1979, Mrs. Clinton said that the relationship between the two nations had ''arrived at a critical juncture.''
''It is clear that we cannot paper over the difference between our countries; nor should we try to do so,'' she said. ''But the future of our relationship can be strong if we each meet our responsibilities as great nations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton outlined ties with China on Friday at the State Department in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); HU JINTAO (73%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); OSLO, NORWAY (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



377 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Retreat Becomes Pep Rally for Fiscal Plan

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- House Republicans sought to build momentum for their effort to cut spending and confront Democrats over fiscal issues as they gathered for a policy retreat in the aftermath of the Tucson shootings, which have overshadowed their debut as the new majority party.
Transplanted for three days to a well-secured hotel overlooking the city's harbor, Republican leaders said they spent considerable time exploring the budget and spending initiatives that they intended to make the centerpiece of their legislative agenda. 
They said they do not have much time to waste since a stopgap law keeping the government operating expires in early March. Republicans want to be ready with a spending plan they can promote as an alternative to what the Democratic-led Senate and President Obama might favor. ''You don't wait to the final day to be able to move forward,'' Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the new No. 3 House Republican, told reporters on Friday.
He and other Republicans said they had also been laying the groundwork for a vote on raising the federal debt ceiling -- a step that is anathema to many Republican newcomers who have Tea Party sentiments.
Republicans made it clear that any agreement to increase federal borrowing power must be tied to major spending cuts, a demand likely to encounter strong resistance from Democrats.
''We obviously want to be able to use that as leverage to make sure that President Obama and the majority in the Senate understand that we would never agree to do such a thing unless there was a huge amount of spending decrease,'' Representative Candice Miller of Michigan said about the debt-limit vote.
The retreat, a tradition at the beginning of a new Congress, amounts to a chance for Republicans to hit the reset button following the shootings last Saturday that left Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, gravely injured; killed six people; and wounded a dozen others. The attack has consumed the Congressional agenda since then.
But Republicans say they are ready to get back to work, starting with a vote next week to repeal the new health care law. They say that will be followed by a drive to substantially cut federal spending and reverse other Democratic initiatives of the last two years.
''We are a renewed, energized Republican majority looking to do some great things this year,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, said.
Aides said more than 200 Republicans -- about a third of whom are new to Congress -- gathered at the Baltimore Marriott Waterfront for brainstorming sessions, speeches by prominent Republicans and other events intended to unify the lawmakers. The speakers included Newt Gingrich, who led the Republican majority the last time the party seized control of the House, in 1995.
House members also heard from three Republican governors who said they could not be happier to have some of their ideological allies controlling at least one arm of the national government.
The governors -- Rick Perry of Texas, Haley Barbour of Mississippi and Bob McDonnell of Virginia -- all complained of the Obama administration's ''running roughshod'' over them, as Mr. Perry put it, and stifling the economy and job growth with intrusive and ill-conceived policies.
Environmental restrictions and the health care legislation were singled out as prime examples of what the governors decried as overreaching by the Obama administration and Congressional Democrats. ''The mandates that are in this legislation will most likely cripple health care delivery with a price tag that will bust our budgets,'' Governor Perry said about the health care law.
House Republicans attending the retreat said they would entertain the idea of members of the two parties mingling in the House chamber for the State of the Union address on Jan. 25 rather than sitting strictly by party as is as customary. They said such a move could improve Congressional relations and present a positive face to the public.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (58%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); CANDICE S MILLER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



378 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Looking to the Future in Sudan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''In Sudan, an Election and a Beginning,'' by Barack Obama (Op-Ed, Jan. 9):
President Obama is right to draw attention to the need for managing refugee returns to southern Sudan and also addressing the plight of Darfurian refugees in Chad. But attention must also be paid to the far greater number of internally displaced persons, those forcibly uprooted within their own country.
More than one and a half million southern Sudanese long displaced in the north have returned to unsustainable conditions in the south. In the north, there remain at least another 1.5 million displaced southern Sudanese, and hundreds of thousands more are uprooted in the south by interethnic violence, while in Darfur, more than two million displaced persons have been languishing in destitute camps since 2004. One of the reasons for this oversight is that there is no clearly defined senior focal point in the United States government for those internally displaced -- not in the State Department, the United States Mission to the United Nations or the Agency for International Development. 
A 2004 internally displaced persons policy of the United States aid agency is unknown to most of the government and is not uniformly applied. With all the Obama administration's reorganization of humanitarian and development offices, it is time to ensure that the 27 million internally displaced persons in the world uprooted by conflict and human rights abuse receive their fair share of attention.
Roberta Cohen Washington, Jan. 10, 2011
The writer was co-director of the Brookings Institution Project on Internal Displacement.
To the Editor:
''Southern Sudan Votes'' (editorial, Jan. 8) rightly notes that the government of southern Sudan has ''set up more than two dozen ministries and built schools and roads'' since the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement in 2005.
Another important ''peace dividend'' being realized is that southern Sudan has reduced its cases of Guinea worm disease by 92 percent, to about 1,700 cases in 2010 from more than 20,000 cases in 2006.
The focus of a global eradication campaign that has reduced the number of cases by more than 99 percent since 1986, Guinea worm disease is manifest by three-foot-long worms emerging through the skin over several weeks.
It is transmitted by drinking contaminated water, but can be prevented by educating people to filter their water through a cloth and by providing clean sources of drinking water. There is no vaccine and no curative treatment.
With 95 percent of all cases in the world, southern Sudan is now the key to completing the global campaign by 2012, and most cases of Guinea worm are now focused in only six of its 80 counties. This accomplishment has improved health, agricultural productivity and school attendance for thousands of southern Sudanese while training almost 30,000 Sudanese health workers and volunteers, despite handicaps of a vast landscape, poor infrastructure, a long rainy season, sporadic insecurity and exceptional mobility of rural populations among villages, farms and cattle camps.
This achievement against such great odds also shows what southern Sudanese can do when they have peace, and it is a good foundation for improving health services in the future.
Donald R. Hopkins Atlanta, Jan. 11, 2011
The writer, a pediatrician, is vice president for health programs, Carter Center.
To the Editor:
Your editorial ''Southern Sudan Votes'' noted the importance of oil in the independence referendum in southern Sudan. Oil is not the only natural resource whose management will be critical to the fate of the new nation.
Southern Sudan boasts vast tracts of savannas, wetlands and woodlands that play host to some of the most spectacular and important wildlife populations in Africa and the world's second-largest wildlife migration -- of some 1.3 million antelope. These resources could become one of the greatest tourism attractions in Africa and a key component of South Sudan's growth and economic security.
There is an unprecedented opportunity now for wildlife conservation, sustainable natural resource management and environmentally friendly ecotourism to be integrated into one nation-building process.
Steven Sanderson President and Chief Executive Wildlife Conservation Society Bronx, Jan. 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISPLACED PERSONS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (87%); REFUGEES (77%); WRITERS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); VACCINES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (62%); WATER POLLUTION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



379 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: In Cabinet Reshuffle, Japan Names New Economics Chief

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan chose a longtime fiscal conservative as his economics chief in a Cabinet reshuffle on Friday, signaling a renewed commitment to efforts to rein in the country's mushrooming public debt.
Japan's new minister in charge of economic and fiscal policy, Kaoru Yosano, is an advocate of raising Japan's 5 percent sales tax to finance the country's growing social welfare spending and tackle its public debt, the highest in the industrialized world. 
Mr. Yosano warned Friday that without reform, the country faced a fiscal impasse. ''Japan's fiscal policy will hit a dead end if it is left as it is,'' he told reporters.
Mr. Kan also appointed Mr. Yosano's predecessor, Banri Kaieda, as trade minister. Mr. Kaieda, a supporter of free trade, has said he favored joining a United States-led, pan-Pacific free trade initiative, despite fierce opposition from Japanese farmers.
The cabinet reshuffle comes amid falling support ratings for Mr. Kan's government, as he struggles to shore up Japan's recovery from its worst recession in decades. But data suggested that Japan's economy might have again contracted last quarter as stimulus measures ran out and a strong yen weighed on the earnings of companies that depend on exports.
Mr. Kan is eager to show that he is serious about tackling Japan's debt as he pushes to win support for his record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1 trillion) budget for the next fiscal year, which starts in April. But opposition parties, which control the upper house of Japan's two-chamber Parliament, have criticized the budget as ineffective and expansionary.
Japan's public debt is set to exceed twice the size of its $5 trillion economy this year and reach 210 percent of its gross domestic product in 2012, the highest among countries tracked by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Social security costs, which have risen sharply in the last decade as Japan's population ages, accounts for more than half of Japan's government spending.
Mr. Kan has sought partisan talks on tax and social welfare reform.
Japan's tax base has shrunk amid the bad economy, and government borrowing is set to exceed tax revenue for a third consecutive year.
''We need a debate on how to build and finance a stable social security system,'' Mr. Kan said at a news conference in Tokyo. ''I've appointed Mr. Yosano to raise the public debate on this.''
Mr. Yosano, the minister for economic policy, held several crucial positions including finance minister under the Liberal Democratic Party, which ruled Japan nearly uninterrupted for more than a half-century until its defeat by Mr. Kan's Democratic Party in September 2009.
He bolted the Liberal Democratic Party last year and formed the Sunrise Party, which had been a harsh critic of Mr. Kan's economic policy. Mr. Yosano left the Sunrise Party on Thursday to instead join Mr. Kan's government.
In a statement, the head of a major business lobby, the Japan Association of Corporate Executives, welcomed Mr. Kan's cabinet reshuffle.
''Our country is at a turning point for revival or decline,'' said Masamitsu Sakurai, who is also chairman at Ricoh, the electronics and office equipment company. ''Further procrastination in seeking resolution is unacceptable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SALES TAX (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (90%); KAORU YOSANO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



380 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Restrictions on Travel to Cuba Are Eased

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Friday eased restrictions on Americans' travel to Cuba in an effort to encourage more contact between people in both countries, while leaving intact the decades-old embargo against the island's Communist government. 
White House officials said they were lifting travel restrictions imposed by President George W. Bush and expanding the so-called people-to-people provisions created under President Bill Clinton. The changes provide broad opportunities for travel to Cuba by academic, religious and cultural groups and allow charter flights from more American airports.
The new measures also permit Americans to send money to Cuban citizens -- except for members of the Castro government and the Communist Party -- and to religious organizations to support ''private economic activity.''
The administration had been expected to announce these measures months ago, but Congressional and administration officials said they were delayed because of White House concerns about their possible impact on the 2010 midterm elections.
There were also worries about the effect the move could have on the detention of a contractor for the United States Agency for International Development who was arrested in Cuba more than a year ago after he was discovered distributing satellite communication equipment to religious groups.
State Department officials visited the contractor, Alan Gross, in Havana this week. The Associated Press reported Friday that the State Department was ''cautiously optimistic'' that Mr. Gross, 60, who has had health problems, would be tried and then allowed to return to the United States.
Still, the fact that the White House announced the new measures late on a Friday afternoon when most Republican members of Congress were away on retreat and Democrats had left their offices for the long holiday weekend, indicated that the administration hoped to enact the changes with as little fanfare -- and backlash -- as possible.
The White House announcement also comes as the Cuban government is carrying out a sweeping economic overhaul, including layoffs of hundreds of thousands of state workers. Sarah Stephens, executive director of the Center for Democracy in the Americas, said the increased flow of money from American citizens would help Cubans cope with the changes.
Asked whether the administration was concerned that the measure might inadvertently strengthen the Cuban government by providing its economy with a new source of hard currency, a senior administration official said, ''What we know is that it will put money into the hands of the Cuban people and allow them to have more independence from the Cuban state.''
Still, a handful of supporters and opponents of the measures took time to make their feelings known.
''Loosening these regulations will not help foster a pro-democracy environment in Cuba,'' said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, the new chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, applauded the measures as ''an important step,'' saying that they ''open the way for the good will of citizens of both countries to forge deeper ties that are in our national interest today and in the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RELIGION (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); ARRESTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (95%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



381 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2196 words

HEADLINE: For Giffords, Tucson Roots Shaped Views

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and WILLIAM YARDLEY; John Schwartz contributed reporting from New York, and Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Gabrielle Giffords grew up in an old house filled with old things at the edge of a city being remade by the new. While strip malls and subdivisions were rising everywhere else, her rambling brick residence was surrounded by 18 arid acres of cactuses and mesquite trees and decorated with Mexican art and Southwestern relics.
When she gave up her big-city dreams in New York to come home and run her family's tire business, she passed on a new condominium or house in the suburbs, instead moving into an adobe duplex in an old neighborhood with shade trees, where crime might be higher but people knew who lived down the street.
And when Ms. Giffords, now a congresswoman, married an astronaut years later, she borrowed her Vera Wang wedding dress, served dinner on plates made of biodegradable sugar cane, had a cook make tortillas on the spot and invited fellow lawmakers to the working farm where she said her vows. 
''The D.C. people were wearing high heels that would sink into the dirt,'' said Ilana Addis, a friend from high school. ''The Tucson people knew not to do that.''
And Ms. Giffords, very deliberately, is a Tucson person.
''If you live in a place and you stay there forever, you're known as a good old Joe,'' said John Hosmer, a former high school teacher of Ms. Giffords's. ''But if you leave, even for just a little while, and then come back, you kind of have a little piece of magic about you,'' he said. ''There's something special about going away and coming back to your roots.''
Yet the city Ms. Giffords grew up in was changing rapidly, from the wide open desert town it had been when her grandfather -- the son of a Lithuanian rabbi -- sold retread tires to motorists in the 1950s, to the oasis for retirees, East Coast transplants and Mexican immigrants that made it a symbol of 1980s sprawl. Tucson was learning to compromise, and as Ms. Giffords moved into civic life and politics, so would she.
Over the past week, as the nation has followed her first tentative steps toward recovery from the would-be assassin's bullet that ripped through her brain, Ms. Giffords, a Democrat, has become perhaps America's best-known member of Congress. Her political views have come into the spotlight, too, setting off debate among outsiders about their seeming contradictions. But here in Tucson, it is clear how much her views have been shaped by this place.
From a culture that embraces independence, Ms. Giffords, 40, voted against Representative Nancy Pelosi in her symbolic quest to remain House speaker in the new Congress, instead casting a vote for Representative John Lewis, the civil rights leader. A fluent Spanish speaker with a Mexican half-brother, Ms. Giffords fought hard for legislation that would have granted citizenship to students who are illegal immigrants, but she also wants the tough border security favored by many in her Republican-leaning district.
She is a champion of solar energy, important to the Tucson economy. She opposes the death penalty, but backs gun rights. A victim of two home burglaries, she owns a 9-millimeter Glock.
''We are, in Tucson, a very diverse community in so many ways -- socioeconomically, ethnically, religiously -- and other parts of the state or region can be put into a box more easily than Tucson is,'' said Bill Nugent, a close friend of Ms. Giffords's. ''Tucson, above all, has had to learn to compromise and to be compassionate and responsive to people, mostly because of their differences.''
''That is part of Gabby's upbringing,'' he said, adding, ''She's not going to take the strict party message.''
A Place to Start Over
Tucson is the kind of place where people come to reinvent themselves, and so it was with Ms. Giffords's family. Her grandfather, the rabbi's son, began life as Akiba Hornstein and moved here in the 1940s from New York. As Gif Giffords, a name he adopted to avoid anti-Semitism, he founded El Campo Tire and Service Centers.
He was an adventurer and a bit of a huckster; he and his wife, Ruth, once drove off to Panama in their 1957 stick-shift to promote Dunlop tires. He made a brief foray into politics, running unsuccessfully as a Democrat for the State Senate. But longtime residents here remember him mostly as a colorful character on radio and television in the 1950s, hawking his tires in spots that doubled as philosophical expositions.
''It's a good, good evening,'' was Mr. Giffords's familiar greeting.
Decades later, as the company's 27-year-old new president, Ms. Giffords carried on the tradition, starring in television commercials that perhaps not coincidentally gave her just the name recognition she needed as she prepared for her first run for political office. ''She was a natural,'' said Gina Brandt, the advertising executive who produced them.
Ms. Giffords grew up on North Soldier Trail outside the city center, in the Tanque Verde Valley, where cottonwood trees rise along a dry riverbed. There were no sidewalks, no corner stores, not even a next-door neighbor. She began mucking out horse stalls at age 8 in exchange for riding lessons, and eventually got a horse of her own. She named it Buck-Stretcher, the El Campo slogan.
''She loved her horse and her horseback riding, and that actually takes a lot of time,'' said Cathy Nichols, a close high school friend. ''She rode alone.''
In a city that was becoming increasingly transient, Ms. Giffords's parents were fixtures. Her father, Spencer, raised as a practicing Jew, ran El Campo Tire and was elected to the Tanque Verde school board. Her mother, Gloria, a Christian Scientist originally from Kansas and nicknamed Jinx, is a painter and art conservator who worked on preserving Tucson's historic Spanish art and missions.
They spent family vacations taking road trips across the border to Sonora, collecting art and books in tiny towns. (Ms. Giffords also has an older sister, Melissa, and an older half-brother, Alejandro, a son from her father's first marriage, who lives in Mexico City but spent his high school years in Tucson with his father's new family.)
''Her dad is this sort of bald, crotchety, crusty, tough-minded businessman, and her mom is artsy, chatty, constantly telling stories, talking, hugging,'' said Jonathan Paton, a Republican who befriended Ms. Giffords after he ran against her and lost. ''I think that Gabby in a lot of ways has those two personalities inside her. People who underestimate her -- and I did -- don't see that tougher side that she gets from her dad.''
Even as a teenager, Ms. Giffords seemed destined for someplace bigger. Sharp and sure of herself, with a penchant for leather jackets and clunky Doc Marten shoes, she would sit in the front row of her Advanced Placement history class at University High School, an elite public school for gifted and talented students.
When Mr. Hosmer, the teacher, gave an incorrect date for the Treaty of Utrecht, she had no qualms about correcting him. ''She was an 18-year-old girl who was really a 40-year-old woman,'' he said. ''She had a lot of internal self-confidence.''
She was not a student council type, though she did register to vote promptly at 18 -- as a Republican, because it was her mother's party. ''She didn't have strong feelings one way or the other,'' Ms. Nichols said. (In the late 1990s, she switched her affiliation to Democrat.) She spent a high school semester in Spain, and chose Scripps College, a tiny, all-female institution in California.
As a double major in Latin American studies and sociology, Ms. Giffords pulled together the various strands of her life into her intellectual pursuits. Spurred by an interest of her mother's, she spent a year after graduation as a Fulbright scholar in the Mexican state of Chihuahua, studying Mennonites.
''She was like an anthropologist in training,'' Kim Welch, her Scripps thesis adviser, said.
After a brief stint in San Diego, Ms. Giffords left for Cornell University to pursue a graduate degree in regional planning -- an endeavor partly motivated, said her close friend Ms. Nichols, by the growth and rapid expansion of her hometown. She cut a striking figure in snowy Ithaca, N.Y., in her Western garb and cowboy boots; when she was done, she landed in Manhattan as a consultant for Price Waterhouse.
''It seemed like the beginning of a grand and glittering adventure in the big city: posh apartments, pointy-toed shoes, and maybe even my first martini,'' Ms. Giffords recalled in a 2009 commencement address to Scripps College. ''But then an unexpected call came from my father.''
In failing health and eager to retire, Spencer Giffords wanted to keep El Campo Tire in the Giffords family. Ms. Giffords's homecoming in 1996, which she has called ''one of the most powerful transformations'' in her life, had not been in her plans. But her friends are convinced that the tug of Tucson would eventually have brought her back.
''I think that she really did miss Tucson and sort of the horseback-riding, motorcycle-driving freedom that is out here in the West,'' Mr. Paton said, adding, ''There was probably a sense of relief about being able to go home.''
A New Direction
Ms. Giffords threw herself into the tire business and civic affairs. But Spencer Giffords did not get his wish; three years after his daughter took over, El Campo was sold, a victim of competition from big chains. The company Gif Giffords founded 50 years earlier was consolidated into a real estate concern.
By that time, Ms. Giffords already had designs on a new life, in politics.
She had ''frustration with how things were working'' in Arizona, Ms. Nichols said, on issues like health care and small business taxes.
Julia Liss, a Scripps professor, said, ''She really was somebody who took life seriously; life was about doing things that mattered.''
She won a seat in the Legislature in 2000. Five years later, when she was a state senator, The Tucson Citizen's business magazine named her its woman of the year. A relentless campaigner and prodigious fund-raiser, she greeted constituents with hugs instead of handshakes. Most people already knew her, or of her family.
''There's still a very small town feel here,'' said the magazine's former editor, Teresa Truelsen. ''Everybody thinks of her as their own.''
When she ran for Congress, to fill the seat of Jim Kolbe, a Republican who was retiring, in 2006, she began actively seeking Republican support. When she won, she kept on some of Mr. Kolbe's staff. As Mr. Paton, her one-time Republican opponent, said, ''She was very disciplined about meeting the people she needed to meet.''
The outreach came in handy; several prominent Republicans threw their weight behind Ms. Giffords during her tight race with a Tea Party-backed candidate last year, when she took criticism for supporting President Obama's health care overhaul. Among them was John Wesley Miller, a longtime homebuilder who said his decision was based partly on Ms. Giffords's pragmatic Western outlook.
''She's a conservative with a conscience,'' Mr. Miller said.
Her marriage in 2007 to Capt. Mark Kelly, an astronaut, created some intrigue, both here and in Washington. They met in 2003 on a trip to China (he was married and she was seeing someone) and Ms. Giffords was obviously smitten. A year later, he was divorced and they were dating. At their wedding, the huppah, the traditional Jewish canopy, was carried down a grassy aisle to the strains of a mariachi band.
''Gabby waited a long time to marry because she just never found the right guy,'' said Marc Winkelman, one of the huppah carriers.
They have a long-distance marriage; Captain Kelly makes his home in Houston, where he has two daughters, while Ms. Giffords splits her time between Washington and Arizona. The result is what Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida Democrat and a close friend of Ms. Giffords's, calls ''a constant state of newlywed.''
On the night before she and 18 others were shot, 6 of them fatally, Ms. Giffords arrived here from Washington and was picked up at the airport by one of her closest friends, Raoul Erickson.
They stopped at her condominium, near her district office, decorated with the same kind of lively folk art -- she once kept a motorcycle painted in Southwestern images -- as her childhood home had been. Then Ms. Giffords suggested they go for an evening bicycle ride, as they often did. They rode 10 miles -- Mr. Erickson objected at first, saying it was too cold, but Ms. Giffords persuaded him -- with the congresswoman snapping their picture with a cellphone along the way.
''I know nothing about her politically,'' said Mr. Erickson, who met Ms. Giffords in the 1990s, when he helped upgrade the computer system at the tire business, ''but I know that when we're out, she'll stop and help anybody.''
When she first ran for Congress in 2006, opponents tried to cast Ms. Giffords as an outsider who had gone to college in California and lived in New York. The campaign responded by reminding voters that Ms. Giffords was a ''third-generation Southern Arizonan,'' and branding her as ''an Arizona original.'' Ms. Giffords appeared in a commercial on horseback, with the desert and mountains behind her.
''I love this place!'' she declared from the saddle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker John A. Boehner and Representative Gabrielle Giffords re-enacting her swearing-in on Jan. 5. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Ms. Giffords's preferred modes of transportation sometimes have four legs, or two motorized wheels. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS
ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from left: Ms. Giffords's wedding to Capt. Mark Kelly, an astronaut, in 2007
she and a close friend, Raoul Erickson, the night before the shooting
 and a sign outside her Tucson office on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORMA JEAN GARGASZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); DESERTS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); JOHN LEWIS (68%); NANCY PELOSI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (95%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



382 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Haiti, Going Forward

 BODY:
It has been an agonizing year since Haiti's earthquake. Despite all of the pledges of help, and vows to do things differently, there are more than a million displaced people still living in camps and a cholera epidemic rages. An immense relief effort has saved tens of thousands of lives, but reconstruction is only just beginning.
This year must be better. Looking resolutely forward to the next 12 months, here are some of the things Haiti needs to achieve, with the world's help. Some are difficult, but all are possible: 
A CREDIBLE NEW GOVERNMENT President Rene Preval has failed to provide desperately needed leadership. Many basic policy questions, such as where to build new housing, have still not been made. That leadership crisis was made even worse by November's chaotic presidential election and charges that an electoral council, handpicked by Mr. Preval, may have cooked the results.
Observers led by the Organization of American States have just re-examined vote tallies and reported that the second-place finisher, Mr. Preval's protege Jude Celestin, was, in fact, out of the running, as many Haitians and observers believed. Mr. Preval and Mr. Celestin should accept that result and urge the country forward to a swift, better organized, runoff between the top two candidates: Mirlande Manigat and Michel Martelly.
ENERGIZE THE RECOVERY COMMISSION The Interim Haiti Recovery Commission, set up to unite donors and Haiti's leaders, was also very slow off the mark. It has now approved $3 billion in projects, $1.6 billion of them financed. It needs to develop and implement more comprehensive strategies for housing, health care, government reform and agriculture. Former President Bill Clinton and Haiti's prime minister, Jean-Max Bellerive, have provided important direction but need to push harder.
CONTAIN CHOLERA The epidemic is a horrifying reminder of why Haiti so urgently needs clean water and access to medical care -- two of the yet-to-be-delivered-on promises. More than 3,000 people have been killed and thousands more are threatened.
Aid has been slow to arrive and the response -- despite valiant relief efforts -- has been hobbled by poor coordination and overconcentration in the capital, Port-au-Prince. The epidemic must be contained, and relief organizations need to learn from this flawed effort.
CLEAR MORE RUBBLE AND HOUSE THE DISPLACED These are inextricably linked. The country is drowning in its own rubble, and needs space to rebuild. Many main roads in the capital are now clear, and every day the government removes debris that residents gather from local streets. Even with the best coordination, this task may take another year or more.
Building homes for more than one million displaced people could take two or three years. The next president must quickly make important land-use decisions and employ all of his or her legal and persuasive powers against entrenched landowners and the bureaucratic status quo to get construction moving.
PROMOTE JOBS AND INVESTMENT Here, too, there are glimmers of progress. The Haitian government, the United States and Inter-American Development Bank have signed a deal on an industrial park in northern Haiti. A South Korean textile company will be an anchor tenant and expects to hire 20,000 people. The project includes improvements in the port of Cap Haitien and in water supply, sewage treatment and electrification.
Haiti obviously needs more than one showcase project. But this is the kind of sensible planning and long-term commitment that will help build stability and bring more investment. It recognizes that new industrial development also needs houses, roads, schools and services, so that factories do not become surrounded by shantytowns. And that as the economy is rebuilt, it must also be relocated out of badly crowded Port-au-Prince.
While Haiti remains traumatized by the worst urban disaster in history, it has a lot going for it: new structures to promote sustainable development and investment, large pledges of money and the enduring patience and energy of its people. This is no time to give up. Haiti's political leaders, and the world, promised this time would be different. They must deliver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (63%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); MICHEL MARTELLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



383 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
BELARUS LEVELS ACCUSATIONS
At Germany and Poland
Belarus accused Poland and Germany of plotting to overthrow President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko and impose a puppet government with the aid of paid provocateurs from the Belarussian opposition. Page A4
LEBANON CALM IN CRISIS
Since 2005, Lebanon has weathered more months without an effective government than with one. Perhaps that is why its current crisis, the struggle between Iran and America, the prospect of war with Israel and the flaring of sectarian tensions feels oddly unlike one. Page A4 
GUNMEN KILL 6 IN PAKISTAN
At least a dozen gunmen stormed the house of a police officer in northwestern Pakistan, killing her and five members of her family. The attackers used a rocket to break into the house and then opened fire with guns. Page A9
U.S. STATEMENT ON CHINA
The United States is not bent on containing China, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said, but the Obama administration is cultivating other allies across Asia to help it manage Beijing's increasingly bold projection of military and economic power. Page A9
BERLUSCONI TO FACE INQUIRY
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi will be investigated in a prostitution case involving an under-age nightclub dancer, prosecutors announced, a day after Italy's highest court weakened a law that had shielded him from prosecution while in office. Page A7
INQUEST INTO AFGHAN BANK
Afghan officials have begun an investigation into possible fraud at Kabul Bank, four months after irregularities there led to a weeklong run on the bank by depositors, according to the spokesman for the attorney general. Page A5
UNREST IN HAITI NOT FADING
The political crisis in Haiti showed little sign of easing as President Rene Preval weighed a report from international observers rejecting the results of the presidential election in November, and a protest ended with one person dead and several under arrest. Page A9
National
MAINE GOVERNOR 'S REPLY
To N.A.A.C.P. Turns Harsh
Gov. Paul LePage of Maine directed a graphic insult at the state's N.A.A.C.P. leaders after they questioned his decision to pass on attending Martin Luther King Birthday events in Bangor and Portland. Page A10
SCHOOL ON A HOLIDAY
In the South, where establishing an official holiday for Dr. Martin Luther King was long in coming, making children go to school that day is a controversial move to be sure. But administrators in a handful of districts in Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina say they have no choice. Page A10
G.O.P. WEIGHS POLICY
House Republicans sought to build momentum for their effort to cut spending and confront Democrats over fiscal issues as they gathered for a policy retreat in the aftermath of the Tucson shootings, which have overshadowed their debut as the new majority party. Page A11
FILMMAKER LOSES APPEAL
A federal appeals court has ruled that Joe Berlinger, a filmmaker who was ordered to hand over footage from his 2009 documentary ''Crude'' to the Chevron Corporation, cannot invoke a journalist's privilege in refusing to do so because his work does not constitute an act of independent reporting. Page A15
New York
SCHISM IN LEADERSHIP
For Islamic Center
Long-simmering tensions between the two co-founders of the proposed Islamic center and mosque near ground zero led to a parting of the ways that sharply reduces the role of one: Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, long the project's public face. Page A16
Obituaries
MATTHEW LIPMAN, 87
During the Vietnam War, Mr. Lipman, who was teaching at Columbia University, found that many Americans had trouble cogently presenting their views about the war. He concluded many could not reason well, and he feared that it was too late for them to learn. So he responded with a radical idea: to teach children philosophy. Page A20
Business
ARIZONA SHOOTINGS BRING
A New Focus on Glock
In the 25 years or so since the Austrian-based Glock company began aggressively marketing firearms in this country, Glocks have become one of the best-selling pistols in America even as the company's management has been roiled in scandal. Page B1
SOLAR COMPANY TO MOVE
Evergreen Solar, the third-largest maker of solar panels in the United States, is closing its main American factory, laying off the 800 workers and shifting production to a joint venture with a Chinese company in central China. Page B1
TAXES FILED BY PHONE
Intuit, the company that makes TurboTax software, introduced an application that lets users automatically fill out the 1040EZ, the most basic of the I.R.S. personal tax forms. Filers simply photograph their W-2 and the app does much of the rest. Page B4
SOLID SALES FOR DISNEY GAME
The highly publicized video game Epic Mickey had a solid but not spectacular debut in stores -- a likely reflection, analysts said, of a retail strategy that missed important sales opportunities. Page B7
Arts
A NEW ADDITION
To Alaskan Literature
In Europe, where they keep better track of Alaskan literature than we do, writes Charles McGrath, David Vann, whose new novel, ''Caribou Island,'' is almost as well known as Jack London. The book is partly a reimagining of something that happened 11 months before his father's suicide Page C1
FOUR PLAYS, TWO FESTIVALS
Even if you're overstuffed and partied-out, writes Ben Brantley, you should still try to make the acquaintance of one or more of several special plays at the Under the Radar and Coil festivals, running concurrently. Page C1
FAITH, MUSIC AND STRUGGLE
The gospel singer Shirley Caesar turned her concert into an inspiring sermon, writes Ben Ratliff. The whole evening became a lesson in getting around blockades: prejudices, debts, bad marriages, health problems, loss of faith and even the lip of the stage. Page C3
Sports
JETS COACH CAUTIOUS
Before Coming Game
Other than stamping his team's playoff game Sunday against New England as ''the second-biggest game in the history of the franchise,'' Jets Coach Rex Ryan was much more prudent than usual, particularly when discussing injuries. Page B10
A RETURN ON AN INVESTMENT
Studies commissioned by the United States Postal Service estimated the agency received at least three times the value of the $32 million it spent sponsoring Lance Armstrong's cycling teams during their heyday, according to reports by a pair of marketing firms covering 2001 to 2004. Page B12
Op-ed
BOB HERBERT PAGE A19
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
Charles M. Blow Page A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); COUPS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); APPEALS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); GOVERNORS (53%); PROSTITUTION (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); BANGOR, ME, USA (53%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (53%) MAINE, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) BELARUS (95%); POLAND (94%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



384 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Man Charged as Stalker Of Kennedy Grandchild

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Early in 2008 a middle-aged stranger began sending notes, flowers, balloons and e-card greetings to Caroline Kennedy's family, focusing on the middle of her three teenage children, Tatiana Schlossberg, the authorities said Friday.
''Dearest Tatiana, I love you. Sincerely, Naeem,'' the man, Naeem Ahmed, 41, wrote in an October 2008 missive sent with roses, according to court papers.
The messages continued, and in November 2009 a private security worker hired to protect Ms. Kennedy, the daughter of President John F. Kennedy; her husband, Edwin A. Schlossberg; and their two daughters and a son met with Mr. Ahmed after he approached their home in Manhattan. He asked him ''to leave the Schlossberg family alone,'' the authorities said. But the communications kept coming. 
Mr. Ahmed was arrested on Dec. 8 and has been held at the Manhattan Detention Complex on charges of harassment and stalking. His lawyer, Gerald M. Hertz, said Mr. Ahmed had been unable to post the $25,000 bail. He is awaiting a psychological evaluation, the authorities said.
The events were reported Friday in The Daily News.
In February 2010, Mr. Ahmed sent an e-card intended for Tatiana, now 20, with a message that said, in part, ''My Dearest Hunny Bunny! Have a Happy Valentine's Day. Do I love you? Yes, I do. Do you? Truly Yours, Yours Hubby, Naeem,'' the court papers said.
Around Thanksgiving, he sent her another e-card -- one of more than 40 greetings in all -- but this one was ''set to piano music and featuring a montage of photos of bare skin, piano keys, a bed with rose petals strewn over the sheets, champagne flutes and the like,'' the papers said.
An inscription said: ''I know you, I know the feeling of you, I know your shape, your sound, your warmth, and your taste. I know you, and I know that I want you, and I need you ... Always,'' the papers said.
He also sent an e-card to her parents, showing some fish trailing a boat, and reading: ''You, You, Thinking of you,'' the court papers said.
Mr. Ahmed, an unemployed naturalized citizen who came from Pakistan a decade ago, was charged with two counts of second-degree aggravated harassment and one count of fourth-degree stalking, all misdemeanors. Mr. Hertz said Mr. Ahmed had been ''languishing'' in jail unnecessarily, awaiting the psychological evaluation, which is required by Jan. 21, his next court date.
Mr. Ahmed was ''taking taxi driving classes'' at Kingsborough Community College, Mr. Hertz said. ''He was just giving his love and affection to the family. He said: 'I was not threatening anyone. I never did anything harmful. I just tried to be affectionate and loving and caring.' ''
''He may have an obsession,'' Mr. Hertz said. ''Many men have obsessions. But he's not crazy.''
Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., declined to comment on Mr. Hertz's suggestion that Mr. Ahmed was facing harsher treatment because the charges against him involved a Kennedy, other than to say, ''we take all cases seriously.''
Two temporary orders of protection have been issued, one barring Mr. Ahmed from contacting Ms. Kennedy's family and another ordering him to stay away from Michelle Mullineaux, an employee in Mr. Schlossberg's office who a law enforcement official said had received most of the digital messages Mr. Ahmed sent for the family.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); STALKING (90%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BAIL (71%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



385 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Quick Return to Constituents, In Tribute and Also Defiance

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Reporting was contributed by Christina Capecchi from Mankato, Minn.; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons from Chicago; and Kimberley McGee from Las Vegas.

 BODY:
From Las Vegas to Connecticut, Congressional Democrats stepped into vegetable aisles, parking lots and office lobbies Friday to meet with constituents, less than a week after Representative Gabrielle Giffords was critically wounded in a shooting rampage at an informal gathering outside a supermarket in Tucson.
In gentle defiance of the security fears -- both for themselves and the voters who come to see them -- some lawmakers made a special effort on Friday to schedule a ''Congress on Your Corner'' event, designed to encourage free-ranging chatter with residents of their district. Others considered the future of these gatherings, with some trepidation. 
''I think it's important to get right back at it,'' said Representative Tim Walz of Minnesota, who stood near boxes of Lucky Charms at Mocol's Super Market, a family-owned grocery store in Mankato late Friday morning. ''To be very honest, it's about standing firm.''
In Las Vegas, Representative Shelley Berkley met with scores of voters in the lobby of her office building, with grievances, curiosity and support for representative democracy on their collective minds.
Pat Brunson, 53, went to discuss her worries about health care.
''I didn't like what I saw last year, so I'm here this year to see if I can make a difference,'' said Ms. Brunson, a disabled, unemployed 20-year resident of Las Vegas. ''I wasn't worried about coming out. What happened in Tucson, that's crazy stuff, stuff you can't get away from. But most of us, we're unhappy and we want answers.''
At each event, there appeared to be at least one police officer present -- there were more than 20 at Ms. Berkley's. For some lawmakers, that was unusual.
One congressman said he was unsure how or when the gatherings could proceed, given the new security concerns.
''We are in conversations with the stores that provide the venue and with law enforcement,'' said Representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado, who had such an event planned for the end of this month. ''We can't ignore what happened in Tucson. You have to pause. You don't have a choice.''
The ''Congress on Your Corner'' concept was a brainchild of Rahm Emanuel, who served three terms in the House and encouraged other members to set up informal talks with voters as he did in grocery store parking lots.
Unlike town hall-style meetings, which tend to center around a single topic, ''Congress on Your Corner'' is one part constituent services, two parts kaffeeklatsch.
''These events are wonderful because you talk about a range of issues, from civil liberties to longboarding,'' said Representative Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut. (Longboarding is a form of skateboarding, and one young voter hoped some streets could be opened up for practicing, Mr. Murphy said.)
Mr. Murphy, who said he had held dozens of ''Congress on Your Corner'' events since he was elected three years ago, said he usually did not conduct them in the bitter cold as he did Thursday in Simsbury. However, he said: ''I thought it was important to demonstrate the tragedy in Arizona was not going to stop our conversation in northwest Connecticut. I think there was a lot of community catharsis that was happening last night.''
Members of Congress have been in talks with the Capitol Police and sergeant-at-arms about new security measures when they meet with large groups in their districts. In the past, some members have routinely relied on local police departments to patrol their larger meetings with constituents, while others have not had security at such events.
The Capitol Police and local law enforcement officials conducted a ''threat assessment'' this week in the Maryland district office of Representative C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger, and ''gave us some great tips on how to conduct ourselves at public events,'' said Heather Molino, his spokeswoman. The congressman plans to attend a meeting to educate voters about the health care law on Saturday.
In Chicago, Representative Mike Quigley held his ''Congress on Your Corner'' event on Friday at a library on the city's North Side. Mr. Quigley said it was the first time he had ever had police officers, in plain clothes, at a community event. He said he had made the decision in part to make his staff feel safer. ''For now, if it makes everyone feel better,'' he said.
It is unclear whether coffee shops and grocery stores would begin to prohibit such events because of security concerns. Safeway officials did not respond to several calls and e-mails Friday.
A spate of rowdy ''Congress on Your Corners'' took place across the country in 2009, when the events were swarmed by Tea Party groups and opponents of the health care overhaul, then the subject of intense debate in Washington.
Mr. Perlmutter said that he had done more than 70 of the corner events, but that only in August 2009 did swarms of people show up to cause a disturbance, egged on, he said, by the Web site embarrassyourcongressman.com. ''Generally there are 25 to 50 people who come to talk about subjects ranging from the Middle East to the fact that they need a passport, that they need to go to Italy next weekend,'' he said.
But on Friday, there was little discord beyond the usual give and take over policy issues at the events. Democrats in a smattering of House districts have planned ''Congress on Your Corner'' sessions over the weekend, while Republican lawmakers continue with a legislative retreat in Baltimore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Shelley Berkley, Democrat of Nevada, speaking with a constituent in Las Vegas on Friday during a ''Congress on Your Corner'' event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%)

PERSON: SHELLEY BERKLEY (78%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (73%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (58%); ED PERLMUTTER (58%); TIMOTHY J WALZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



386 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: From a Boy in a Revolt To the Patriots' Punter, Setting a Rookie Mark

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- About the same time the Jets were throwing obscenities around their locker room this week, a few New England Patriots players were engaged in discussions on scholarly subjects like biodiversity and genetics. Linebacker Jerod Mayo and punter Zoltan Mesko were discussing the human genome when Mesko revealed that his father, Michael, was a pro bowler.
''He's a Pro Bowler?'' a stunned Mayo responded. ''See, that explains it.'' 
Mesko was confused until he realized his own mistake. Mesko clarified that his father had never been selected to the N.F.L.'s Pro Bowl, but instead was a professional bowler.
In his native Romania, Michael Mesko was paid under the table, as he explained it, to play club 9-pin bowling. He was also an engineer, and he met his wife, Elisabeth, in engineering school. So began an unusual journey that eventually led to their son, an engaging, humorous 24-year-old, setting a rookie record for punting footballs for the best team in the N.F.L.
Zoltan Mesko was born March 15, 1986, in Timisoara, near the Hungarian and Serbian borders, during the final gasp of Nicolae Ceausescu's communist dictatorship. Before Zoltan was 4, he and his parents lived through a harrowing week in December 1989 when violent protests, sparked in their hometown, led to the violent overthrow of the Ceausescu regime.
The streets of Timisoara were marked by gunfire, tear gas and armored vehicles while the Meskos hunkered down in their concrete, Soviet-era apartment building.
''It was scary,'' Elisabeth Mesko recalled. ''For one week, we could not go out because of all the shooting. We didn't have much food. I remember my husband's mother died that week, but only he could go to the funeral. It was too dangerous to take Zoltan out.''
Even after the revolution, life was still hard in Timisoara. Although both parents were educated and held prestigious jobs, the Meskos scratched out a meager existence in an economy making a transition to an open market. Two- and three-hour lines for food were the norm, and gas prices neared $9 a gallon. Zoltan remembers wearing shoes long after they fit properly, until his toes poked through.
''Then we used duct tape,'' he said, before adding with a laugh, ''but we didn't have duct tape.''
The hardships reinforced what the Meskos always wanted, to emigrate to America, and after years of waiting, the family finally won the lottery for a green-card visa. On May 8, 1997, they arrived in New York ready to begin a new life. At first they moved in with Julia and George Lutas, old friends from Timisoara who lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.. The Lutases sponsored them and picked them up at the airport. After a few weeks, the Meskos found modest accommodations in Maspeth, Queens.
''They worked very hard and put themselves on their feet very fast,'' Julia Lutas said. ''Now, every year on the anniversary of the day they came here, they call and thank us. That is the kind of people they are.''
Although the elder Meskos were qualified engineers, their degrees did not transfer to the United States, so they found whatever work was available. Michael earned minimum wage working for a locksmith in Queens, and Elisabeth cooked and cleaned houses.
''It was a shock in Queens,'' Elisabeth said. ''I would never go back to Romania, but oh, my gosh.''
While his parents found their bearings, Zoltan began to add English to his other three languages: Romanian, Hungarian and German, which he speaks fluently.
''I first learned English watching Barney on TV,'' he recalled, shaking his head. ''One time I was watching it and it was especially confusing. Then I realized I was watching in Spanish.''
After half a year in Queens, the family took the advice of a friend and moved to Twinsburg, Ohio. Both parents found work in their fields, Michael as a quality control inspector for an industrial manufacturer and Elisabeth as a laboratory supervisor for a geotechnical engineering firm. (His father gave up bowling.)
At school, Zoltan excelled at everything he did.
That even included kickball. As a child in Romania, Zoltan was a left wing in soccer. He became a legendary schoolyard kickball player in Twinsburg, with a thunderous left leg.
''I was a fifth-round draft pick this year,'' he said, ''but I was always a first-round draft pick in kickball.''
Once, after he broke a ceiling light in the gymnasium, the school's coach implored him to play football. That suited Zoltan, if not his mother.
''I didn't want that,'' she said. ''I said, 'They will kill you and they will hit you and they will beat you.' He said: 'Mom, a kicker and a punter, they don't get nothing. They won't beat me.' So I was O.K. if he just be a kicker.''
His kicking prowess and academic success led to a scholarship from Michigan, where he became a cult figure for his name, his booming kicks and his wit. In April the Patriots made him the 150th overall pick in the draft, 49 spots higher than his fellow Michigan alumnus Tom Brady was in 2000. Mesko's net average, 38.4 yards per punt, was the highest mark for a rookie.
''It's a rags-to-riches story,'' he said, ''but the story is not over yet.'' If it continues as it has, he may one day follow in his father's footsteps, as a Pro Bowler.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zoltan Mesko, drafted in the fifth round, averaged 38.4 net yards per punt. Left, Mesko at age 11 with his parents at Kennedy Airport in 1997, when they emigrated from Romania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WINSLOW TOWNSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); ATHLETES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); BOWLING (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); RIOTS (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); LOTTERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (90%); SERBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



387 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: A Better Offer From China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Tom Zeller Jr. in New York and Katie Zezima in Boston contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Aided by at least $43 million in assistance from the government of Massachusetts and an innovative solar energy technology, Evergreen Solar emerged in the last three years as the third-largest maker of solar panels in the United States.
But now the company is closing its main American factory, laying off the 800 workers by the end of March and shifting production to a joint venture with a Chinese company in central China. Evergreen cited the much higher government support available in China.
The factory closing in Devens, Mass., which Evergreen announced earlier this week, has set off political recriminations and finger-pointing in Massachusetts. And it comes just as President Hu Jintao of China is scheduled for a state visit next week to Washington, where the agenda is likely to include tensions between the United States and China over trade and energy policy.
The Obama administration has been investigating whether China has violated the free trade rules of the World Trade Organization with its extensive subsidies to the manufacturers of solar panels and other clean energy products. 
While a few types of government subsidies are permitted under international trade agreements, they are not supposed to give special advantages to exports -- something that China's critics accuse it of doing. The Chinese government has strongly denied that any of its clean energy policies have violated W.T.O. rules.
Although solar energy still accounts for only a tiny fraction of American power production, declining prices and concerns about global warming give solar power a prominent place in United States plans for a clean energy future -- even if critics say the federal government is still not doing enough to foster its adoption.
Beyond the issues of trade and jobs, solar power experts see broader implications. They say that after many years of relying on unstable governments in the Middle East for oil, the United States now looks likely to rely on China to tap energy from the sun.
Evergreen, in announcing its move to China, was unusually candid about its motives. Michael El-Hillow, the chief executive, said in a statement that his company had decided to close the Massachusetts factory in response to plunging prices for solar panels. World prices have fallen as much as two-thirds in the last three years -- including a drop of 10 percent during last year's fourth quarter alone.
Chinese manufacturers, Mr. El-Hillow said in the statement, have been able to push prices down sharply because they receive considerable help from the Chinese government and state-owned banks, and because manufacturing costs are generally lower in China.
''While the United States and other Western industrial economies are beneficiaries of rapidly declining installation costs of solar energy, we expect the United States will continue to be at a disadvantage from a manufacturing standpoint,'' he said.
Even though Evergreen opened its Devens plant, with all new equipment, only in 2008, it began talks with Chinese companies in early 2009. In September 2010, the company opened its factory in Wuhan, China, and will now rely on that operation.
An Evergreen spokesman said Mr. El-Hillow was not available to comment for this article.
Other solar panel manufacturers are also struggling in the United States. Solyndra, a Silicon Valley business, received a visit from President Obama in May and a $535 million federal loan guarantee, only to say in November that it was shutting one of its two American plants and would delay expansion of the other.
First Solar, an American company, is one of the world's largest solar power vendors. But most of its products are made overseas.
Chinese solar panel manufacturers accounted for slightly over half the world's production last year. Their share of the American market has grown nearly sixfold in the last two years, to 23 percent in 2010 and is still rising fast, according to GTM Research, a renewable energy market analysis firm in Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to solar energy, China just passed the United States as the world's largest builder and installer of wind turbines.
The closing of the Evergreen factory has prompted finger-pointing in Massachusetts.
Ian A. Bowles, the former energy and environment chief for Gov. Deval L. Patrick, a Democrat who pushed for the solar panel factory to be located in Massachusetts, said the federal government had not helped the American industry enough or done enough to challenge Chinese government subsidies for its industry. Evergreen has received no federal money.
''The federal government has brought a knife to a gun fight,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''Its support is completely out of proportion to the support displayed by China -- and even to that in Europe.''
Stephanie Mueller, the Energy Department press secretary, said the department was committed to supporting renewable energy. ''Through our Loan Program Office we have offered conditional commitments for loan guarantees to 16 clean energy projects totaling nearly $16.5 billion,'' she said. ''We have finalized and closed half of those loan guarantees, and the program has ramped up significantly over the last year to move projects through the process quickly and efficiently while protecting taxpayer interests.''
Evergreen did not try to go through the long, costly process of obtaining a federal loan because of what it described last summer as signals from the department that its technology was too far along and not in need of research and development assistance. The Energy Department has a policy of not commenting on companies that do not apply.
Evergreen was selling solar panels made in Devens for $3.39 a watt at the end of 2008 and planned to cut its costs to $2 a watt by the end of last year -- a target it met. But Evergreen found that by the end of the fourth quarter, it could fetch only $1.90 a watt for its Devens-made solar panels, while Chinese manufacturers were selling them for as little as $1 a watt.
Evergreen's joint-venture factory in Wuhan occupies a long, warehouselike concrete building in an industrial park located in an inauspicious neighborhood. A local employee said the municipal police had used the site for mass executions into the 1980s.
When a reporter was given a rare tour inside the building just before it began mass production in September, the operation appeared as modern as any in the world. Row after row of highly automated equipment stretched toward the two-story-high ceiling in an immaculate, brightly lighted white hall. Chinese technicians closely watched the computer screens monitoring each step in the production processes.
In a telephone interview in August, Mr. El-Hillow said that he was desperate to avoid layoffs at the Devens factory. But he said Chinese state-owned banks and municipal governments were offering unbeatable assistance to Chinese solar panel companies.
Factory labor is cheap in China, where monthly wages average less than $300. That compares to a statewide average of more than $5,400 a month for Massachusetts factory workers. But labor is a tiny share of the cost of running a high-tech solar panel factory, Mr. El-Hillow said. China's real advantage lies in the ability of solar panel companies to form partnerships with local governments and then obtain loans at very low interest rates from state-owned banks.
Evergreen, with help from its partners -- the Wuhan municipal government and the Hubei provincial government -- borrowed two-thirds of the cost of its Wuhan factory from two Chinese banks, at an interest rate that under certain conditions could go as low as 4.8 percent, Mr. El-Hillow said in August. Best of all, no principal payments or interest payments will be due until the end of the loan in 2015.
By contrast, a $21 million grant from Massachusetts covered 5 percent of the cost of the Devens factory, and the company had to borrow the rest from banks, Mr. El-Hillow said.
Banks in the United States were reluctant to provide the rest of the money even at double-digit interest rates, partly because of the financial crisis. ''Therein lies the hidden advantage of being in China,'' Mr. El-Hillow said.
Devens, as the site of a former military base, is a designated enterprise zone eligible for state financial support.
State Senator Jamie Eldridge, a Democrat whose district includes Devens, said he was initially excited for Evergreen to come to his district, but even before the announced loss of 800 jobs, he had come to oppose such large corporate assistance.
''I think there's been a lot of hurt feelings over these subsidies to companies, while a lot of communities around the former base have not seen development money,'' he said.
Michael McCarthy, a spokesman for Evergreen, said the company had already met 80 percent of the grant's job creation target by employing up to 800 factory workers since 2008 and should owe little money to the state. Evergreen also retains about 100 research and administrative jobs in Massachusetts.
The company also received about $22 million in tax credits, and it will discuss those with Massachusetts, he said.
Evergreen has had two unique problems that made its Devens factory vulnerable to Chinese competition. It specializes in an unusual kind of wafer, making it hard to share research and development costs with other companies. And it was hurt when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008; Evergreen lost one-seventh of its outstanding shares in a complex transaction involving convertible notes. But many other Western solar power companies are also running into trouble, as competition from China coincides with uncertainty about the prices at which Western regulators will let solar farms sell electricity to national grids.
According to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, shares in solar companies fell an average of 26 percent last year. Evergreen's stock, which traded above $100 in late 2007, closed Friday in New York at $3.03.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Evergreen Solar plans to close its main American factory, in Devens, Mass., seen here in September, and lay off 800 workers. (B1)
 Michael El-Hillow, chief executive of Evergreen, said falling prices for panels led to the closing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) GRAPHICS: Made in China: China's share of the United States market for solar panels is climbing quickly and expected to pass the market share for American-made panels this year or next year. Evergreen, which manufactured more megawatts of solar panels in the United States than all but two other companies last year, is moving production to China. (Source: Greentech Media Research) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (70%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011



388 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: A Ukrainian Immigrant Reconnects With His Roots

BYLINE: By EWA KERN-JEDRYCHOWSKA

 BODY:
Alex Bebeshko's early life was not easy. He said his mother was a drug addict, and other addicts would come to their apartment in Odessa, Ukraine, to buy a hit of ''rastvor,'' an opium derivative, and shoot it up, sometimes in front of him.
Mr. Bebeshko's father was absent. His parents divorced when he was a year old, and since then, Mr. Bebeshko had spoken to him just a few times by phone.
But Mr. Bebeshko, now 22, radiates confidence, wit and energy. He is an inspiration to many teenagers in the Russian-speaking Jewish community of south Brooklyn, where he works. 
As a child, he had a lot of support from his maternal grandparents, who took care of him after his mother remarried and moved with her newborn daughter to be with her husband's family, which happened when Alex was about 6.
''My grandparents are the ones I took most of my morals from,'' he said.
In 2000, he and his grandmother, who was by then 60 and widowed, arrived in the United States as refugees and settled in a studio apartment in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.
Mr. Bebeshko's mother, who had been ill for some time, died six months after he left Ukraine, leaving his half-sister, Raisa, then 6, in an orphanage in Odessa. It took until 2006 to resolve the legal adoption issues that allowed Raisa to join them in the United States.
At the same time, Alex was facing the challenges of immigrant life, trying to learn English and to make new friends.
''I was very culture-shocked,'' he recalls. ''When you are 12, 13 years old, everybody is talking about what kind of shoes you have, what kind of games you are playing. I didn't have any of that stuff. My grandmother worked as a baby sitter; I was a poor kid.''
One day, his grandmother, seeking help translating some documents, took him to the Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. In the vibrant center, serving primarily Russian-speaking Jews, Mr. Bebeshko found, as he says, ''his community.''
Mr. Bebeshko got involved in many programs offered by the Marks J.C.H.'s Teen Center. Over the years, he has taken on more responsibilities: as an after-school volunteer, as a camp counselor and as a mentor in a Big Brothers program for other immigrant children. Mr. Bebeshko, now a part-time employee at the center, also coordinated various teen leadership programs.
His friends and superiors at the Marks J.C.H. said he was a natural leader.
''He is completely devoted to the community and has the skills and the potential to really motivate and bring the youth of our community to the next level,'' said Violetta Shmulenzon, the director of leadership development, who has known Mr. Bebeshko since he was 13. ''He is so charismatic, and our teens want to emulate him.''
Mr. Bebeshko has to play the same leadership role for his sister, who is in the 11th grade.
''Growing up in an orphanage a lot of time, she doesn't have the habits that a regular child growing up at home would have,'' said Mr. Bebeshko, who described his sister as artistic and fragile. He has been meeting with her teachers to discuss her progress.
Immigrating gave Mr. Bebeshko an opportunity to rediscover his Jewish roots, something he had never thought much about while in Odessa. Though the city was home to a thriving Jewish community in the 19th and early 20th centuries, repeated persecution and the secularism of the Soviet era prompted the emigration of many Odessa Jews. Those who remained, including his family, suppressed their identity.
Mr. Bebeshko, with the help of scholarships, graduated from Fordham University in May 2010 with a bachelor's degree in international political economy. He has applied to New York University, hoping to pursue a dual master's degree in nonprofit management and Judaic studies.
Mr. Bebeshko earns $1,000 to $1,200 a month through his part-time work at the Marks center. He rents a room at his aunt and uncle's house in Brooklyn, paying $500 a month. And he helps his grandmother and sister, who rely on Supplemental Security Income and various forms of public assistance. Mr. Bebeshko covers his sister's phone bill and pays for her school expenses and clothes. He also helps the family pay for cable and Internet.
Before submitting his application to N.Y.U., Mr. Bebeshko had to take the Graduate Record Examination, but could afford only a third of the $840 cost for a prep course. The Marks center paid the balance, $560, using money from the Neediest Cases Fund.
Mr. Bebeshko realizes that balancing family responsibilities with work and school will not be easy. But his goals motivate him. ''I definitely want to work with the Russian-speaking Jewish community,'' he said. ''It's bigger than myself.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Bebeshko has become a mentor at the Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $5,563, 717 Recorded Wed. 24,935 Total $5,588,652 Last year to date $5,881,907 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); ORPHANS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); OPIUM (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); REFUGEES (67%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ODESSA, UKRAINE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UKRAINE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



389 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: To Paint a Dog, Observe With Love

BYLINE: By ALEXA TSOULIS-REAY

 BODY:
JOY MALIN'S love of dogs is obvious, even over the phone. ''When you arrive, come to apartment D, as in dog,'' she instructed a visitor. This was a fitting introduction to the East Village-based artist who estimates that she has painted oil portraits of more than 120 dogs in the last three years. 
Her animal portrait business started with an oil painting of her daughter's dachshund, Neo. Her daughter was delighted with the result, and Ms. Malin decided it would be a fulfilling way to supplement her art-brokering business, which had suffered during the recession.
She began to advertise on Craigslist, with signs in Washington Square Park and through the gossip networks that connect East Village dog lovers. She's a regular at Tompkins Square Park, where she walks her Yorkshire terrier, Charlie, with a team of dog owners who call themselves the ''Housewives of Tompkins Square Park.''
Ms. Malin's process varies from dog to dog, but she usually paints from photos. That, she says, is the key to a successful portrait: turning the 11-inch-by-14-inch oil paintings into more than a generic portrait of a breed.
''If you have a great photograph, then it is easy to capture the soul of the dog,'' Ms. Malin said. ''It's in the eyes.''
She tends to work quickly, she says, noting, ''When you spend a lot of time on it, it gets stale.''
The portraits, hung in living rooms and bedrooms across the East Village and beyond, symbolize the intimate connection between a dog and its owner.
Her clients, who pay upward of $250 per portrait, are often reduced to tears when they are presented with their paintings. ''It's so important to do a really good job,'' Ms. Malin said. ''I want them to cry when they open the package. They love the paintings because they love their dogs.''
Ms. Malin said it is her relationship with her own dogs that allows her to tap into the bond that her clients have with their pets. When Sam, her 18-year-old white Yorkie, died just over a year ago, Ms. Malin moved to another apartment to escape the memories. She painted his portrait, using a photo taken during his last summer at the beach, but the process was painful.
''Unconditional love is hard to pass,'' she said. ''And that's what dogs offer us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEO: Joy Malin, a painter, says her dog portraits often make owners cry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOY MALIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (92%); PETS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ANIMALS (78%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



390 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: If Quakes Weren't Enough for California, Enter the 'Superstorm'

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- California faces the risk not just of devastating earthquakes but also of a catastrophic storm that could tear at the coasts, inundate the Central Valley and cause four to five times as much economic damage as a large quake, scientists and emergency planners warn.
The potential for such a storm was described at a conference of federal and California officials that ended Friday. Combining advanced flood mapping and atmospheric projections with data on California's geologic flood history, over 100 scientists calculated the probable consequences of a ''superstorm'' carrying tropical moisture from the South Pacific and dropping up to 10 feet of rain across the state. 
''Floods are as much a part of our lives in California as earthquakes are,'' said Lucy Jones, the chief scientist for the United States Geological Survey's multi-hazards initiative, adding, ''We are probably not going to be able to handle the biggest ones.''
The geological survey estimates that such a storm could cause up to $300 billion in damage. The scientists' models estimate that almost one-fourth of the houses in California could experience some flood damage from one.
The conference was convened by the geological survey, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the California Emergency Management Agency to help disaster-response planners draft new strategies to limit the storms' impact.
Climate scientists have for years noted that the rising temperature of the earth's atmosphere increases the amount of energy it stores, making more violent and extreme weather events more likely.
Californians have learned to expect earthquakes the way Floridians expect hurricanes. (A minor earthquake, with a preliminary magnitude of 4.1, rattled windows in the southern part of the San Francisco Bay area about a week ago.)
The existing engineering systems that dispose of floodwater are so efficient that the effects of moderate storms often go unnoticed, Dr. Jones said. So while many Californians know whether they live or work close to an earthquake-prone fault and what to do should there be a serious quake, few realize that the state could be hit by storms that at their worst could rival the largest hurricanes that devastate the Gulf Coast and the southeastern Atlantic Seaboard.
Yet vast floods have also been documented, both through tree-ring data and more modern historical records. Marcia K. McNutt, the director of the geological survey, said that 150 years ago, over a few weeks in the winter of 1861-62, enough rain fell to inundate a stretch of the Central Valley 300 miles long and 20 miles wide, from north of Sacramento south to Bakersfield, near the eastern desert.
The storms lasted 45 days, creating lakes in parts of the Mojave Desert and, according to a survey account, ''turning the Sacramento Valley into an inland sea, forcing the state capital to be moved from Sacramento to San Francisco for a time, and requiring Gov. Leland Stanford to take a rowboat to his inauguration.''
Just like a major earthquake, a superstorm could be a severe blow to the state's agriculture and to the water-supply system that now diverts water from the north to Southern California.
Dr. Jones said in an interview that improved satellite imagery available in recent years allowed scientists to clearly identify what they call ''atmospheric rivers'' -- moisture-filled air currents up to 200 miles wide and 2,000 miles long, which flow from tropical regions of the Pacific Ocean to the West Coast.
The West Coast winter weather systems popularly known as the Pineapple Express, air currents carrying moisture from the Hawaiian Islands are just one moderate subset of these rivers, Dr. Jones said. The abbreviation for atmospheric river, A.R., gave the geological survey the root of its name for these major weather events, which they call ARk storms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (92%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); WEATHER (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); HISTORY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); EARTH (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



391 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Law Students, Loans and the Hunt For Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Those who have watched the legal business over the last several years should not be surprised at a burst bubble in the job market for law school graduates (''Is Law School a Losing Game?'' Jan. 9). 
Just a few short years ago, big law firms in major United States markets were leap-frogging over one another with their first-year salaries, proudly announcing the latest increases. As was the case in past bubbles, most recently in the stock market and the housing sector, this ''irrational exuberance'' created an unsustainable situation. Companies started to notice the absence of value for their legal dollar, legal budgets were tightened, and the excesses that fueled the bubble ultimately caused it to burst.
Fred M. Plevin
San Diego, Jan. 9
The writer is managing partner at Paul, Plevin, Sullivan & Connaughton LLP, a firm specializing in labor and employment law.
To the Editor:
As a 46-year-old who only recently considered, and ultimately rejected, law school, your article made me only happier about my decision.
The problems described in the article are not limited to law schools, but are part of a phenomenon that cuts across much of higher education in this country. The solution is knowledge: young people need more guidance on the realities of their career choices. If they don't get this information from their counselors, they should seek out professionals in the field.
When I was considering law school, I called every lawyer I could think of, interned with the local district attorney, and only then made my decision.
Scott Cole
Ashland, Ore., Jan. 9
To the Editor:
With college lending sliding toward another government ''solution,'' it's time to rethink how to control the ever-expanding debt burden created by unchecked demand. I'd suggest that schools be held accountable for 50 percent of their students' unpaid debt.
When the school has skin in the game, everything changes. Screening applicants, course offerings and placement efforts for graduates will be seen in the same light as the business world sees the costs of a new product's introduction. The old ivy towers may be fine for trust fund heirs, but today's cost of higher education demands more accountability -- especially since taxpayers are backing student loans just as they (regretfully) back much housing lending. Mel Fisher
Loudon, Tenn., Jan. 11
To the Editor:
To be a lawyer is to be a civil servant, helping those who cannot help themselves for lack of an education. Some make millions, while others make a real impact in peoples' lives.
I truly feel that I am a better person, and a better citizen, for having invested so much in my education. (I received my law degree in 2009 and have now started my own practice.) I thank my lenders for giving me the chance to do what I could not do on my own as I turn around and help so many others. The cost may have been high, but the value of my education is priceless.
Nicole L. M. Jurkowski, Esq.
Southampton, Mass., Jan. 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); BUDGETS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: PAUL PLEVIN SULLIVAN & CONNAUGHTON LLP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



392 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Tourists Mimic Polar Pioneers, Except With Planes and Blogs

BYLINE: By JENNIFER A. KINGSON

 BODY:
When the British explorer Robert Falcon Scott arrived at the South Pole only to find that he had been beaten there by Roald Amundsen and his team of Norwegians, he was despondent. ''Great God! This is an awful place,'' he lamented in his diary.
Awful as it may be, it is about to get a lot of foot traffic. Hundreds of people -- tourists, adventurers and history buffs -- are lining up to visit the South Pole in honor of the 100th anniversaries of Amundsen's arrival (on Dec. 14, 1911) and Scott's (Jan. 17, 1912). The preparations are already speeding along.
Some people intend to ski the exact routes of Amundsen and Scott, reading the explorers' diaries daily and blogging about the experience. Others will drive to the pole by truck. For those seeking less exertion, there will be catered flights to the pole, including several that will let passengers off a few miles away so they can ski the remaining stretch and feel the thrill of victory. 
One of the many tour operators trying to cash in on the fervor is Polar Explorers, a company in suburban Chicago that is charging $40,500 for a flight to the pole on either anniversary (weather permitting). People who want to be dropped off a degree or two away so they can ski in will pay up to $57,500.
''We're going to have lots of Champagne toasts and take a lot of pictures, and you can call home to your loved ones from the pole,'' said Annie Aggens of Polar Explorers. ''It's super exciting just to walk in the footsteps of these early explorers.''
Needless to say, people will not want to replicate Scott's entire expedition. He and his men died in a blizzard during the 800-mile trek back from the pole, huddled in a tent that was, famously, just 11 miles from a vital cache of supplies.
Instead, many people plan to ski to the pole, then fly back. One of them is Matt Elliott, a 28-year-old Briton, who will compete in a 440-mile ski race, pulling 200 pounds of gear the whole way. A resident of Windsor, he works for his family's paper wholesaling business and calls himself ''a complete polar novice.''
He has never tried cross-country skiing, and he is not a big fan of cold weather, but he has been practicing by dragging two car tires on a rope for several hours at a time.
''I want to know how far, physically, I can go,'' said Mr. Elliott, who is paying about $95,000 to enter the competition, sponsored by a London-based company called Extreme World Races. ''It would be great to get there first and run the Union Jack at the South Pole before the Norwegians get there,'' he said.
Davis Nelsen, who is 52 and runs a steel manufacturing company in Chicago, will have a less stressful trip. He plans to be on one of the Amundsen flights run by Polar Explorers, in honor of his Norwegian heritage. This will be his second polar adventure: in 2009, he flew to the North Pole to mark the centenary of Robert Peary's expedition.
In polar travel, ''you have to be prepared to be uncomfortable,'' said Mr. Nelsen, who plans to ski the last 30 or so miles.
The crowds going to the South Pole are not expected to amount to more than a blip in overall tourism numbers to Antarctica, which peaked at 46,000 in the 2007-8 season and have dropped off because of the global recession. But because most people who visit Antarctica go by cruise ship and do not venture beyond the coast, a spike in tourism to the pole itself is expected.
The National Science Foundation, which runs the Amundsen-Scott research station at the South Pole, is not amused. It has a message for all these potential visitors: do not expect a warm welcome.
''Those people who do arrive, we don't really have a process for them other than letting them know that they are at the pole, that this is a U.S. station, and we're not able to provide them with any amenities,'' said Peter West of the National Science Foundation's Office of Polar Programs.
Yes, there is a small gift shop -- make that, ''commissary'' -- where people can buy T-shirts and the like, and visitors can drop off letters that will get a South Pole postmark. But the research station is ''really not set up for tourism,'' said Evan Bloom of the State Department. ''We want other governments to get the word out that people should not simply show up at the South Pole.''
Most of the time, visitors will be spread across Antarctica. The biggest ski race, the one set up by Extreme World Races, will take place far away from the routes taken by Scott and Amundsen, approaching from the opposite side of the continent. Fifty-one competitors, in teams of three, will ski to the pole, said Tony Martin, founder of the company. Training for the race, which includes jumping into ice holes and learning to negotiate crevasses, will take place at a camp in Norway; space is still available.
''We don't give cash prizes or cars,'' said Mr. Martin, in an interview by satellite phone from Antarctica, where he was in a truck setting a course for the race. He described his clients as ''just ordinary people'' who wanted to ''push themselves psychologically and physically.'' Each will wear a GPS device, and airplanes will be on call in case someone needs to be evacuated.
Among other adventure travelers, Henry Worsley, a lieutenant colonel in the British Army, may have the best historical pedigree. He is distantly related to Frank Worsley, the captain of Ernest Shackleton's ship, the Endurance. He is staging his own race to the pole in two teams of three men.
''The intention is to rerun the Scott-Amundsen race from the two start points,'' he said. ''I'm leading the Norwegian route up the Axel Heiberg glacier from the Bay of Whales, and a friend of mine is going to do the Scott route, which I did a few years ago.''
Some people are trying to play down the competitive angle and play up the historical one. Jan-Gunnar Winther, director of the Norwegian Polar Institute, plans to be at the pole the day Amundsen reached it, part of a four-man team that will re-enact Amundsen's journey then fly home in time for Christmas. On the British side, Ben Saunders, a 33-year-old London resident, who is a long-distance skier and motivational speaker, plans to follow in the footsteps of Scott -- and to complete the return trip that Scott could not finish.
David Wilson, a great-nephew of Edward Wilson, the naturalist and sketch artist who marched to the pole with Scott and died beside him, will join other descendants of Scott's polar party in Antarctica next Jan. 17 in the vicinity of the tent, where they will hold a memorial service.
He echoes the Scott party line: that the British expedition went to Antarctica to do science, not to race to the pole. The people planning competitions are ''completely misunderstanding what happened 100 years ago,'' Dr. Wilson said.
Despite the potential circus atmosphere, some veterans insist that Antarctica is not for novices.
''It's a place that wants you dead,'' said Robert Swan, an environmentalist who walked Scott's route to the South Pole in 1985. ''Scott found that out 100 years ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert F. Scott, standing center, with his 1912 South Pole expedition. A Norwegian team arrived first, and Scott's group perished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Extreme World Races, which is sponsoring a 440-mile South Pole race, offers a winter training camp for the intrepid in Norway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EXTREME WORLD RACES)
Participants in a previous race sponsored by Extreme World Races, above, flew to South Africa after the event in Antarctica. Few amenities exist there, but the flags of the signers of the Antarctic Treaty, below, are planted near the geographic pole. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EXTREME WORLD RACES
AMUNDSEN OMEGA 3) (A4) MAP (Sources: centenary racing organizations
 National Geographic) (A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); SKIING (90%); HISTORY (71%); TOUR OPERATORS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); TIRES (68%); WHOLESALERS (61%); PAPER WHOLESALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%) NORWAY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (77%); ANTARCTICA (73%); SOUTH AFRICA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



393 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2100 words

HEADLINE: Architects Find Their Dream Client, in China

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE W. CHEEK

 BODY:
IT was an unusual commission, unlike anything that Stuart Silk, a Seattle architect, had been offered in his quarter-century of practice: design three high-end custom homes for clients he would never meet. Although there were some specifications for functions and dimensions -- total square feet, for example, and the number of bedrooms and baths -- there wasn't a clue as to style or a construction budget.
''A lot of emotions went through my head,'' Mr. Silk says. ''Disbelief was one of them. Then the anxiety that comes along with the responsibility to do something without direction. But ultimately it was very freeing and intellectually exciting.''
The commission came from Shanghai, where a Chinese developer was beginning work on a community of villas bearing stratospheric prices -- 50 million to 100 million renminbi, or $7.5 million to $15 million. 
How did Mr. Silk get the job? A consultant for the developer had simply seen a Palm Springs, Calif., house that he had designed, liked it, and offered him the project. Before long, the three villas expanded to nine.
Mr. Silk's 17-person firm is among scores of small to midsize architectural practices across the United States that are enjoying a startling boom in Chinese projects -- whether in spec mansions for sudden multimillionaires or quarter-mile-high skyscrapers. Although a handful of big firms, like Skidmore, Owings & Merrill of Chicago and HOK of St. Louis, have extended global tentacles for generations, it has been only in the last half-dozen years that Chinese projects have gushed down to their smaller brethren.
These firms are grateful for the commissions, and not only for the obvious reason -- that the Chinese work has helped fill the void left by a listless American economy. More intriguing, the architects say, is that Chinese developers and even government agencies are proving to be better clients than their American counterparts. They say the Chinese are more ambitious, more adventurous and even more willing to spend the money necessary to realize the designs. This thrills the architects, who have artistic undercurrents that often struggle to find an outlet.
The Zhongkai Sheshan Villa project, recently completed in a scenic suburb of Shanghai, provides a window onto the unusual workings of some architectural commissions in China.
This luxury development occupies 45 acres and comprises 80 custom villas. Wang Qian, a consultant for the developer, the ZK Real Estate Development Company of Shanghai, toured luxury communities in Palm Springs, Los Angeles and Toronto in 2003 and identified 17 North American architects, including Mr. Silk, to design the homes. The list eventually narrowed to 10.
''I have no idea whether Chinese architects can do this,'' said Mr. Wang, in an interview from Shanghai. ''Maybe they can -- but I didn't want to take that risk. In China there was no development like this. The villa market is rather young in China.''
Each of Mr. Silk's nine designs was required to be distinct, but no stylistic guidelines materialized. For the first time in his career, he wasn't an architect interpreting a client's tastes and personality, but an artist facing a blank canvas. ''It opened up a part of my brain that hadn't been exercised in a while,'' he says.
Mr. Silk visited the Suzhou gardens, west of Shanghai, where he encountered signs interpreting the landscapes; they were written in poetic language. That prompted the idea of writing story lines from which each villa design could bud. His narrative for one home, called Bending Paths, begins in a meditative vein:
''Like rings from a stone dropped into a pond,'' he wrote, ''curving walls create a journey and define space.''
On the aesthetic side, Mr. Silk says, the developer ''really stayed out of it -- if anything, they helped us more fully realize our ideas.'' As the design progressed, however, new requirements popped up, some calling for substantial redesign. Mr. Silk was surprised to learn, for example, that traditional Chinese feng shui principles meant that a front door couldn't be positioned at the foot of a stairway, lest good fortune tumble down the stairs and roll out the door.
But over all, he said, ''Working in these narratives turned out to be a real win. It's an opportunity we don't get in the programs we usually work with here.''
Five villa commissions went to Mack Scogin Merrill Elam Architects of Atlanta, a small firm known for its extroverted, edgy work. Merrill Elam, a principal in the firm, says the Chinese work came as a radical departure. The firm had never done a house that would be completed without a predetermined owner, and never had a client who expressed no aesthetic predilections.
''We had to think about the designs in a universal way,'' Ms. Elam says. ''Is it nice to have a small garden beside a dining room? Yes! Humans have instincts for certain things -- views, light, privacy. We had to apply these notions as if we would live in the houses ourselves. They didn't give us any clues.''
AS Americans take on Chinese clients, they are adapting to some fresh nuances in the architect-client relationship. It's a swirl of patient relationship-building, fast-track decision-making and lyrical moments that, they say, would be unusual in American business dealings.
Chris McVoy, senior partner at Steven Holl Architects in New York, says a developer in Beijing gave the firm three months to develop a concept for a high-rise housing project that replaced a Mao-era factory in the heart of the city. The firm injected into the project Mr. Holl's long-simmering ideas about urbanism, tapping the earth underneath for geothermal energy, and fixing everything it saw wrong with the dreary Soviet-inspired high-rises in Chinese cities.
''We thought they'd say, 'You're crazy, forget it,' and we'd walk away,'' Mr. McVoy says. ''We presented to about 20 people, and when we were finished, of course they all looked to their president to respond first. He said: 'Anybody can build buildings. Few can build poetry.' ''
The project was built, complete with glass bridges linking the towers like neighborhood alleys in the sky. It led to the even more radical ''groundscraper'' headquarters for China Vanke, a big developer based in Shenzhen in southern China. The structure is the size of the Empire State Building laid out horizontally and raised five stories off the ground to provide a public park below.
The firm also designed a development it calls the Sliced Porosity Block, under construction in Chengdu, in central China; jagged gorges are scooped out of the buildings to carve pathways for sunlight.
''There's no way a U.S. developer would let us do these,'' Mr. McVoy says, adding that the American mentality is, ''if it hasn't been done before, then you shouldn't do it. It's all about risk, risk, risk. The Chinese have a kind of fearlessness to build things.''
He says there may be more involved than just an intrepid spirit. ''There's another dimension to it,'' he muses. ''There's an appreciation of nonmaterialist ideas, a connection to history and culture and especially, meaning. They drive toward a solution, but there's also a metaphysical dimension.''
Les Wallach, an architect in Tucson, Ariz., has likewise found a receptivity he's seldom seen in the United States. His 12-person firm, Line and Space, has designed a 40-mansion China Vanke community near Hong Kong. The original commission specified a ''clubhouse'' for the 40 families who would occupy the homes.
''I told them these people could belong to any club in the world,'' Mr. Wallach says. ''Why not do something entirely different?''
He hatched a concept for a hilltop retreat where artists could come to work; their art would become part of a communally owned gallery there.
''They thought about it for a little while and said, 'Let's do it,' '' Mr. Wallach says.
Goettsch Partners in Chicago, an 85-employee firm that is now doing half its business in China, has found that its Chinese clients respect their architects' decisions about materials.
''They don't establish a construction budget in the same way we do,'' says the firm's president, James Goettsch. ''I don't think we've ever had a project slowed down or held up over the budget.''
The architects appreciate such decisive, generous clients. Heller Manus Architects, a 25-employee firm in San Francisco is now doing two-thirds of its work in China, with a dozen projects currently on the boards. ''They have coherent policies that enable them to get things done,'' says Jeffrey Heller, a partner.
Mr. Heller's business partner, Clark Manus, who is the president of the American Institute of Architects, has a theory about the streamlined Chinese process. ''The U.S. political establishment is mostly attorneys and other people who are involved with political science,'' he says. ''In China, the highest-ranking officials tend to be engineers. They see a problem, they allocate money and effort toward a solution.''
Of course, this efficiency sometimes comes with a price: a firmly decisive, top-down system means that projects are built whether or not people in local neighborhoods want them. As Mr. McVoy observes, modern development has already erased much of China's historic architectural fabric, like intimate courtyard neighborhoods of Beijing, which were defined by their hutongs, or alleyways. He says his firm would have ''serious misgivings'' about accepting a commission that would destroy something of historical value.
FOR some American firms, marketing efforts in China have consisted of little more than answering the phone. Jim Olson, partner in Olson Kundig Architects in Seattle, won a Chinese commission after a Hong Kong businessman and his wife spent a year separately combing through books and magazines for houses they liked. When they compared notes, an Olson-designed house in San Francisco was at the top of both piles. Thus came a commission for a 14,000 square-foot villa.
Now there's a neighbor calling -- or the agent for one. Mr. Olson says a man who owns a nearby home site recently had an acquaintance call to test the waters. ''That's the way they do it,'' Mr. Olson says. ''Someone else first contacts you in place of the potential client to make sure you won't say no.''
Patient relationship-building is at the heart of any long-term marketing effort in China. Mr. Heller has been traveling to China about six times a year since 2004, and much of his firm's work has grown out of a relationship with one person in a Chinese design institute.
''It's such a relationship-driven world,'' he says. ''You go out to lunch, you go out to dinner.''
Goettsch Partners, like Heller Manus and Steven Holl, has established a permanent office in China, and a young Shanghai-born partner, James Zheng, is working as Goettsch's director of Asian operations. He says he spends 60 percent of his time in China, much of it cultivating relationships.
With more American firms working in China, the competition is increasing, he said in an interview from his Chicago office. ''The good news is that it's relatively easy in Chinese culture to just call someone and say 'I want to meet you,' '' he said. ''You can't always do that in the U.S.''
At this stage, ethnocentricity, traditionally a powerful force in Chinese culture, doesn't seem to be affecting the selection of architects. Mr. Wang, the Shanghai developer, says he just wanted the ''right architects'' for the villas. ''It's not about who designed the villas; it's about the output,'' he says. ''It's because the architect has designed a very nice building that it becomes prestigious.''
Mr. Zheng says that there is a shortage of Chinese architects with the qualifications to execute large-scale commercial projects. ''In my opinion,'' he says, ''what most of them are missing is not the conceptual ideas, but rather the experience and ability to turn the concept designs into reality.''
He says he has sensed some resentment or jealousy among some talented Chinese architects. ''However,'' he says, ''I believe the majority of them really understand and respect'' the American architects' role.
Goettsch has been so successful in China -- with 25 mid- and high-rise projects, and with a 1,440-foot tower for the city of Tianjin now in design -- that the firm is becoming picky about its clients. Not all developers have adequate expertise for big projects, Mr. Zheng says.
''You want to avoid clients who don't know anything about building,'' he says. ''They won't respect you; they'll try to change things along the way.'' Which sounds an awful lot like architects' complaints about American clients.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of Bending Paths, a villa designed by a Seattle architect for a Shanghai developer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART SILK ARCHITECTS)(BU1)
Stuart Silk, above, was commissioned to design nine custom homes near Shanghai with no instructions on style or budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Drawing of the 1,440-foot tower in Tianjin that Goettsch Partners is designing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOETTSCH PARTNERS )
 Jeffrey Heller, president of Heller Manus Architects in San Francisco. The firm is doing two-thirds of its work in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



394 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: System Failures

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his review of Matt Taibbi's ''Griftopia'' (Dec. 26), Peter S. Goodman says the book serves as a ''corrective to the noxious idea that the tragedy of recent years was an inevitable byproduct of the market system.'' Actually, in the absence of governmental constraints on Wall Street, that's exactly what it was. History is replete with examples of what can happen when mankind is afforded the opportunity to act without sanctions -- from one country's imposing its will on another to the financial crisis of 2008. There was once a name for it: ''social Darwinism.'' 
A sad footnote is that the American electorate cast its vote in November for those in the party most likely to abdicate their regulatory responsibilities; to paraphrase Goodman, they believe that unsupervised markets work best.
MIKE GRELLA Jupiter, Fla.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



395 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: In South Los Angeles, New Fast-Food Spots Get a 'No, Thanks'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Driving along Crenshaw Boulevard, it is not difficult to find a place to grab a bite. At some intersections, there is a fast-food joint on each corner.
If the restaurant chains had their way in some parts of town, city officials say, no street would be without its own fast-food outlet.
Los Angeles is making one of the nation's most radical food policies permanent by effectively banning new fast-food restaurants in South Los Angeles, a huge section of the city that has significantly higher rates of poverty and obesity than other neighborhoods. 
A handful of much smaller cities have enacted similar regulations for primarily aesthetic reasons, but Los Angeles, officials say, is the first to do so as part of a public health effort. The regulations, which the City Council passed unanimously last month, are meant to encourage healthier neighborhood dining options. Supporters envision more sit-down restaurants, produce-filled grocery stores and takeout meals that center on salad rather than fries.
''If people don't have better choices or don't have the time or knowledge or curiosity, they are going to take what's there,'' said Jan Perry, a city councilwoman who represents part of South Los Angeles and pushed for the regulations. ''To say that these restaurants are not part of the problem would be foolish.''
The regulations are not quite an outright ban; existing restaurants can remain open, and exceptions are made for those opening inside a shopping center. Many mom-and-pop businesses or casual restaurants that serve equally unhealthy food can also get permits to open.
The City Council first enacted a one-year moratorium in 2008. Since then, no new stand-alone fast-food establishments have opened in the area. Instead, Ms. Perry said, the area got its first new supermarket in roughly a decade.
Bernard Parks, a city councilman who represents parts of South Los Angeles and also pushed for the change, said he was simply trying to apply land-use laws to limit fast-food restaurants the same way other communities do with bars or liquor stores.
''There are people who are accused of being the food police, of trying to control what goes into people's mouths,'' Mr. Parks said. ''But we just don't think that we need to give fast food more rights around here. We don't think our community needs to have 10 or 15 or 18 ways to eat a hamburger.''
Daniel Conway, a spokesman for the California Restaurant Association, said the limits set a ''troubling precedent'' and could ''throw up a big stop sign'' for any potential owner looking to open any kind of food business in the area.
''They have good intentions, but they have taken a kind of approach that emphasizes sticks over carrots,'' Mr. Conway said. ''We recognize your intent, but you are singling out the wrong thing right now. We basically have a target on our back.''
The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy group in Washington that has long fought against fast-food chains, is pushing for other cities, including Detroit and Philadelphia, to enact similar limits. But so far, there has been relatively little support from community leaders there.
By the council's estimate, there are nearly 1,000 fast-food restaurants in the 30 or so square miles of South Los Angeles covered by the regulations. Some 30 percent of the 750,000 residents in the area are obese, double the rate in wealthier parts of the city, according to the county's Department of Health. Residents in the area older than 65 are far more likely to receive diagnoses of diabetes or heart disease, statistics show.
A study released in 2009 by the RAND Corporation, a research group based in Santa Monica, found that the moratorium was unlikely to effectively change the rate of obesity or diabetes in the area. The study argued that rather than focus on calories that come from fast food, policy makers should instead look at junk food snacks from gas stations and convenience stores.
''People get a lot more of their discretionary and unnecessary food from there than from a fast-food restaurant,'' said Roland Sturm, a senior economist at RAND and a co-author of the study. ''A lot of this is driven by sound bites overlooking what is actually going to have an impact. People talk about this area being a food desert, but it is more like a swamp -- you are literally drowning in food, but none of it is really a good option.''
Waiting to find the perfect policy is futile, advocates for such regulations say. They compare the fight against junk food to the early efforts of antismoking initiatives. Later, policy experts can compare the regulations here to, say, New York City's ban on trans fats.
''There is something inevitable here -- you get different things going on in different places and it will just be a matter of time before it starts to have a cumulative effect,'' said Kelly D. Brownell, the director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity. ''To intervene in any one part of the system and expect a significant result is just not possible.''
A trip along Crenshaw illustrates how difficult it might be to change the eating habits of people who have grown up on meals that come with soda and fries. Carl's Jr., a popular burger chain on the West Coast, was packed in the early afternoon. A group of teenagers had stopped in on their way home from school, eager to gobble up Western Bacon Cheeseburgers -- one boy called it his ''before-dinner snack.'' Cynthia Williams and her two young children sat at another table nearby, picking at their fried chicken stars.
''This is a fun thing for them and easy for me, so how can I not come at least once a week or something like that?'' Ms. Williams said. ''When you're out, you are just going to look for the first decent thing around. If there are fewer of them, fine by me, but we're still going to go to the ones we've got now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top, Alina Lester, 4, and Ralph Lester, 3, at Earlez Grille in Los Angeles. The city is effectively banning new fast-food places in South Los Angeles, which has much higher rates of poverty and obesity than other areas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); OBESITY (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); PROPERTY LAW (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (99%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



396 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: THE ENVIRONMENT: Recession Special: Cleaner Air

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The previous Congress failed to pass climate change legislation, and the new House is openly hostile to the idea. But what the government has not mandated, the economy is doing on its own: emissions of global warming gases in the United States are down.
According to the Energy Department, carbon dioxide emissions peaked in this country in 2005 and will not reach that level again until the early 2020s. 
''It's important to note that the future isn't what it used to be,'' said David Doniger, policy director of the Climate Center at the Natural Resources Defense Council. He pointed out that the Energy Department's projection of emissions in 2020 was lower in 2008 than in 2007, and has kept falling.
How could that be?
In part, the Great Recession has been good for something.
''The recession has led to a smaller economy, less activity and less energy consumption,'' said Revis W. James, director of the Energy Technology Assessment Center at the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility consortium.
Electricity consumption had been growing at a rate of 1 percent to 1.5 percent a year, but the recession brought on the steepest drop in decades. When demand fell, the utilities cut back on the use of their least-efficient generating stations, the ones that emit the highest amounts of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour.
Of course, the recession will end one day, but the economy will look different when it does, experts say. By then, the United States will be further along in its multidecade trend away from energy-intensive industries and toward a service-based economy.
The other big change is in the price and availability of natural gas. New drilling technology allowing for the recovery of gas from shale formations has led the government to double its estimate of how much natural gas can be recovered from shale. The result is that its price, already at bargain-basement levels, is likely to stay low for years to come.
That means that even if the mix of electric generating plants does not change, the cleaner gas-fired ones will run for more hours and the dirtier coal-fired ones will run for fewer. Making a kilowatt-hour from gas means emitting about 40 percent less carbon dioxide, compared with coal.
At the same time, some of the oldest coal plants are being retired because of new rules restricting not carbon but conventional pollutants like soot, mercury, ash, sulfur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen. In their place, electric utilities are increasingly turning to plants powered by natural gas. Some coal- and gas-fired plants will also be displaced by wind as renewable-fuel quotas, enacted by more than half the states, take effect. Also, the federal government enacted new subsidies for renewable energy, which have added more solar and wind-generated electricity. Those investments ''lead to decreased emissions relative to what you would have expected two years ago,'' said Ashley Lawson, a carbon emissions analyst at Point Carbon, a media company.
More efficient lighting in homes and offices, better air conditioners and heaters, and other efficiency improvements to appliances, all justified as saving money over their lifetimes, also save carbon. Cars that go more miles on a gallon of fuel or at least part of the way on electricity will also cut carbon output.
Total electricity use will be about 20 percent higher in 2035 than it is today, the Energy Department estimates, but renewable energy, which was 10 percent of the mix in 2009, will be 14 percent in 2035. Use of coal as a fuel is predicted to fall to 43 percent from 45 percent.
And who knows? Economic and technical changes could further decrease our carbon output. Gasoline prices could rise above $4, though the government says that is unlikely. A viable gasoline substitute might be found. New nuclear plants might be built.
Even so, all of this falls far short of putting America on the road to the goal stated by President Obama on the campaign trail two years ago, an 80 percent reduction by 2050. And even if the United States continues to reduce its carbon output by shifting to less energy-intensive industries and by importing more cars, appliances and other energy-intensive goods, the carbon required to make those things will still go into the global atmosphere. The emissions just won't come from the United States.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK LAZENBY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



397 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Here's an Easy One

 BODY:
Vows by Congressional Republicans to slash billions from the federal budget at a time when joblessness is high and the economy needs stimulus are reckless. But here is one big-ticket saving that all members of Congress should get behind: cutting the billions of dollars in farm subsidies that distort food prices, encourage overfarming and inflate the price of land. 
The government spends $10 billion to $30 billion a year subsidizing mainly large-scale farmers. That includes: $5 billion in direct payments that are delivered regardless of what or even whether farmers plant; up to $7 billion in ''marketing loans'' that effectively set a floor on crop prices; up to $4 billion to protect farmers in bad years; about $4 billion in subsidies to buy crop insurance -- which lead to higher premiums; and more.
In 2008 the government committed to buy up cheap imported sugar, which could depress the price of home grown, and sell it to ethanol producers, even at a loss.
This should be an easy one. But the farm lobby is not worried. Last week, the Farm Bureau Federation voted to insist that the 2012 farm bill ''maintain a strong 'safety net' '' for farmers -- including direct payments, insurance subsidies and the countercyclical and marketing loan programs. It said all the special pleadings should, of course, fit ''within the budget framework.''
One reason the farm lobby is so confident is that it has so many good friends in Congress -- Republicans and Democrats. The new chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, Frank Lucas, of Oklahoma, has already won the Friend of the Farm Bureau award six times. Mr. Lucas has long touted his support for ethanol subsidies, which have inflated the price of corn. Last year, he said the Obama administration was ''out of touch with agriculture'' for proposing sensible savings, including limiting direct payments to farmers who made over $500,000 in annual sales. More pandering to the farm lobby is out of touch with the country's fiscal reality and with what is good for American consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); ALCOHOLS (76%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (75%); CROP INSURANCE (74%); BIOFUELS (73%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ETHANOL (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); FRANK D LUCAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



398 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: In Lieu of Glitter, Glimmers of Hope

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
DETROIT
WINDING through the virtual showroom that is Detroit's annual auto show, passing plug-in Fords, a made-in-America Volkswagen and a more spacious Toyota Prius, a visitor may catch a glimpse of it: a light at the end of the tunnel.
Just after closing 2010 on a positive sales note, the auto industry began humming its old upbeat tune, accompanied by new cars and trucks it hoped can sustain the momentum and smooth any economic dips ahead. The North American International Auto Show opened last week with two press days; it is open to the public through Jan. 23.
After two years of recessionary gloom inside Cobo Center -- and a near-depression in the Detroit neighborhoods beyond its doors -- every hometown automaker is still standing. Brands that could no longer carry their own weight in stripped-down corporations, including Hummer, Pontiac, Saturn and Mercury, were gone, and the survivors seemed ready to move beyond bankruptcies and bailouts to the more entertaining fare typically associated with auto shows.
''The excitement is back, and you see a lot more confidence, including from the three Detroit automakers, which I'm happy to see,'' said Dieter Zetsche, the Daimler chief executive who can recall better days in Motown. 
A pair of the Motor City's recent efforts were rewarded at the show. The Chevrolet Volt, the first production plug-in hybrid from a major manufacturer, was voted North American Car of the Year by a panel of automotive journalists. The 2011 Ford Explorer, a surprisingly agile and advanced crossover version of what was once a more primitive truck-based S.U.V., took Truck of the Year honors.
Toyota chose Detroit to unveil the Prius V, a wagon-style spinoff of its groundbreaking hybrid. Honda showed a striking new Civic compact, a perennial best-seller. Other companies flaunted cars that will be their cornerstone products -- the Mercedes-Benz C-Class sedan, for instance.
Executives from G.M. and Chrysler, having spent recent Detroit shows serving as impromptu tour guides for the wide-eyed politicians who had become their financial patrons, also found more breathing room. Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, canceled her visit after the weekend shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords in Arizona. Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, as well as Senator Bob Corker from that state -- the latter once considered a villain here for having publicly opposed aid to Detroit carmakers -- had personal stakes in attending the debut of the 2012 Volkswagen Passat, to be built in VW's new Chattanooga factory.
With most automakers' belts tightened, there was little of the show's pre-recession extravagance and less room for way-out design fantasies. In many cases, the design studies shown in Detroit, including the Civic, were simply previews of cars already set for production.
Here are some of the highlights from the show floor in Detroit:
AUDI A6On sale late this year as a 2012 model, the redesigned midsize luxury sedan -- shorter, lower, wider and about 180 pounds lighter -- will try to extend Audi's streak of critically applauded designs that translate into strong sales. A 300-horsepower supercharged V-6 will be standard; a hybrid model, perhaps bound for the United States, is estimated to return 38 m.p.g. on the highway.
BMW 1 SERIES M On sale in May at about $47,000, this ultraperformance version of the 1 Series coupe delivers 340 horsepower from BMW's twin-turbocharged 3-liter in-line 6 -- good for a 0-to-60 dash in 4.7 seconds, the company says. A 6-speed manual transmission and comprehensive upgrades to the body, interior and chassis complete the package.
BMW 650I CONVERTIBLEWith the 6 Series' styling worn and sales gone cold, this sleeker soft-top replacement will cost more than $90,000 in V-8-powered form when it reaches dealerships. BMW will also offer a 6-cylinder 640i model, along with more-affordable coupe versions.
BUICK VERANO The baby brother to the Regal, the compact Verano sedan will initially offer a 177-horsepower 2.4-liter 4-cylinder when it goes on sale late this year, followed by a roughly 250-horsepower, 2-liter turbo model in 2012.
CHEVROLET CAMARO CONVERTIBLE Put on the back-burner by G.M.'s financial woes, the Camaro convertible finally heads to dealers next month, inspiring north country buyers to pray for an end to the snow. Starting at roughly $30,000 with its 312 horsepower V-6 (a bump from last year's 304), the soft-top Camaro also offers 400- and 426-horsepower versions of the 6.2-liter V-8.
CHEVROLET SONIC Intended to erase bad memories of the Daewoo-based Chevrolet Aveo, the Sonic sedan and four-door hatchback, now built on a global G.M. platform, will compete against subcompact benchmarks like the Honda Fit when it reaches dealers in the third quarter of this year. The Sonic borrows 1.4-liter turbo and 1.8-liter engines from the larger Chevy Cruze.
CHRYSLER 300 Better late than never: the redesigned version of Chrysler's once-swaggering sedan is already rolling off assembly lines, with a newly competent interior and engines, including a 3.5-liter Pentastar V-6 with 292 horsepower.
FORD FOCUS ELECTRIC Hot on the heels of the Chevy Volt and Nissan Leaf, Ford will add an all-electric version of its redesigned compact hatchback, with the E.V. version set for sale in company-selected markets late this year. Ford claims that the striking Focus will be more energy efficient than the Volt and will recharge in about three hours using a 240-volt home charger, roughly half the time required by the Nissan Leaf.
FORD VERTREK With small crossover S.U.V.'s suffering from the design blahs, the Vertrek concept offers a glimpse of a spicier future as a potential replacement for the aging Escape. Looking like a more-mainstream take on the Range Rover Evoque, the Vertrek features Ford's fuel-saving engine start-stop system and a 1.6-liter Ecoboost engine that will spread across vast reaches of Ford's global lineup.
HONDA CIVICWith Hyundai, Ford, Chevy and everyone else nipping at Honda's small-car heels, the fresh-looking Civic sedan and coupe -- described by Honda as concepts, but in fact close to production form -- will aim to maintain their benchmark status this spring. Honda will also offer a hybrid version with lithium-ion batteries, a natural gas model and a speedy Si version.
HYUNDAI CURB With the Evoque and Nissan Juke clearing the way, the Curb is yet another compact crossover that's determined not to be mistaken for a soccer mom's S.U.V. The Gen-Y-seeking concept features a pop-out bike rack, pop-up roof rack and Hyundai's new Blue Link telematics system, open to all manner of social media apps.
HYUNDAI VELOSTER While it's hard to not call it the Velociraptor, this Hyundai is decidedly more cuddly. To be priced around $17,000 when it hits dealers this summer, this three-door crossover -- one on the driver's side and two on the passenger's -- features a 1.6-liter direct-injection engine, smart details and telematics for social networking and other youthful pursuits.
JEEP COMPASS Already in showrooms, the remade Compass adopts more manly styling from the larger Grand Cherokee and addresses a major shortcoming of the previous model with a richer new interior. Buyers can choose a 158-horsepower 2-liter 4 or a larger 172-horse 2.4-liter 4 -- along with a new off-road package that bestows the Jeep brand's coveted Trail Rated capabilities.
KIA KV7 This appealing concept van -- larger than the similarly boxy Kia Soul -- could spawn a showroom model, probably without the gullwing doors and rotating seats of the show version. The KV7 is powered by a turbocharged 4-cylinder with up to 285 horsepower.
MERCEDES C-CLASS With a mildly reworked exterior but a lavishly redesigned cabin, Mercedes' best-selling sedan will offer a more-affordable, 201-horsepower 4-cylinder turbocharged C250 model when it reaches dealers in May. Introduced at media event, the C-Class was not on display at the auto show, but Mercedes did have its SLS E-Cell, an all-electric version of its SLS gullwing supercar. Also in attendance was the F-Cell, a hydrogen-fueled version of its B-Class hatchback that Mercedes has begun leasing to about 200 people in California and Europe.
MINI PACEMAN By Mini's shrunken-doll standards, this handsome crossover coupe is as beefy and aggressive as a G. I. Joe, urban commando division. Based on the Mini Countryman, the production Paceman should join the ever-expanding Mini line around 2013, perhaps with a 211-horsepower turbo 4 and a choice of front- or all-wheel drive.
PORSCHE 918 RSR It's designed for endurance racing, not the street. But that won't spoil the fantasy for teenagers: the dazzling 918 RSR is based on the coming 918 Spyder Hybrid. It incorporates the energy-storing flywheel system from the 911 GT3 Hybrid racer.
TOYOTA PRIUS C With notably daring styling from the usually conservative Toyota, this Prius offshoot -- still a design study, but not for long -- arrived with an equally bold claim: this subcompact city car, Toyota says, will sip less fuel than any conventional hybrid, including the larger standard Prius that gets 51 m.p.g. in town and 48 on the highway. The Prius C is set to go on sale in the first half of 2012.
TOYOTA Prius V The ''V'' stands for versatile. And with roomy seating for five and 50 percent more interior space than the standard Prius, the Prius V reaches dealers this summer. With a company-estimated fuel economy of 42 m.p.g. in town and 38 on the highway, the Toyota Prius V would use less fuel than any wagon, crossover or S.U.V. sold today.
VOLKSWAGEN PASSAT Like its cost-cutting Jetta cousin, the new Passat sedan grows larger while undergoing a steep price cut, here to roughly $20,000 -- part of VW's bid to triple its United States sales by 2018. The Passat should emerge from its new Tennessee factory in February, powered by either VW's 2.5-liter, 5-cylinder gasoline engine, a 280-horsepower VR6 or a turbodiesel that's expected to deliver a class-leading 43 highway m.p.g.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRACK STAR: Left, the Porsche 918 RSR, a hybrid racecar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
FRESH PRODUCE: At left, from top, Toyota Prius C design study
Prius V wagon, on sale this summer
and Ford Vertrek, a crossover concept. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS
FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
VOLKSWAGEN PASSAT: Coming soon from Chattanooga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
HONDA CIVIC Si: A concept in name only. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
CHEVY CAMARO CONVERTIBLE: Arriving next month, ready for summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS)
BMW 1 SERIES M: A 340-horsepower stimulus package. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
MERCEDES-BENZ C-CLASS: The 4-cylinder engine returns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS)
AUDI A6: A much-loved design evolves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS)
 FORD FOCUS ELECTRIC: A quick-charging battery E. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (50%); BOB CORKER (50%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (50%); NANCY PELOSI (50%); PHIL BREDESEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



399 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: EXTREMES JAN. 9-15

 BODY:
THE NEWS The worst flooding in decades inundated immense areas of Queensland in northeast Australia and swamped tens of thousands of homes and businesses in Brisbane, the state's main city, killing at least 15 people. 
BEHIND THE NEWS The weather pattern known as La Nina drove one downpour after another for weeks into tropical Queensland, which is used to a bit of flooding each year, but nothing like last week's. The waters may take days to recede, leaving residents to ''face a reconstruction task of postwar proportions,'' as the state premier, Anna Bligh, put it.
THE NEWS Tunisia's president fled his country amid growing chaos on the streets of the capital, Tunis.
BEHIND THE NEWS The fall of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, whose authoritarian government ruled for more than two decades, marked the first time in recent memory that widespread demonstrations had overthrown an Arab leader. Outpourings of public anger focused on unemployment, high food prices, corruption and the wealth amassed by the ruling elite. Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi took charge and urged calm.
THE NEWS Flash floods and mudslides in the mountains north and northeast of Rio de Janeiro killed more than 400 people and wrecked whole towns.
BEHIND THE NEWS Torrential rains soaked the hills around the city for days, adding a dark twist to the city's name (it means January River) and collapsing some of the steep hillsides where flimsy houses and shacks had proliferated as the local population exploded in recent years. The state governor told a radio interviewer that irresponsible housing policies had made the death toll and damage much worse.
THE NEWS Snow was on the ground simultaneously in 49 of the 50 states last week after severe winter weather hit the Plains, Northeast and Southeast. Experts said that although specific records were not kept, such events were very rare.
BEHIND THE NEWS The snowless state was not Hawaii (the tops of Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea get snow this time of year) but Florida, and the snow didn't miss by much -- it fell in Alabama within a few miles of the state line. Temperatures in Tallahassee fell to the 20s, but on nights when skies were clear.
THE NEWS Newly published global climate data showed that 2010 was the wettest year in the historical record, and it tied 2005 as the hottest year since record keeping began in 1880.
BEHIND THE NEWS The government figures underscored 2010 as one of the more remarkable years in climatology. It featured prodigious snowstorms in the United States and Europe; a record-shattering heat wave in Russia; floods that drove people from homes in Pakistan, Australia and California; a severe die-off of coral reefs; and a continuation in global warming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FLOODS DOWN UNDER (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE HUNT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
CHAOS IN TUNISIA (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOLLY PICKETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MUDSLIDES IN BRAZIL (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARINO AZEVEDO/RIO DE JANEIRO GOVERNMENT)
SNOW NEARLY EVERYWHERE (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 HOT AND WET ALL OVER (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARMEND NIMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (91%); WEATHER (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); EL NINO & LA NINA (78%); LANDSLIDES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (70%); CORRUPTION (67%); MOUNTAINS (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); FOOD PRICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); TUNISIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



400 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Sam Chandan

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Dr. Chandan, 37, is the global chief economist for Real Capital Analytics, a market research firm in Manhattan that tracks commercial real estate sales and trends worldwide. He joined the company about a year ago, after his firm, Real Estate Econometrics, was acquired by Real Capital.
Dr. Chandan was also the chief economist for the real estate research company Reis for nearly six years. 
Q How was your first year at Real Capital?
A Fantastic. My entire team came out; I brought six people with me. Real Estate Econometrics provided the perfect complement to the existing expertise of R.C.A., which historically focused on capital markets broadly but specifically on transaction activity. Our team's focus was on how those deals are being financed.
Q And the commercial property market in New York in 2010?
A The New York office market, in particular, recovered a significant measure of its previous robustness, and the apartment sector performed exceptionally well.
Part of that relates to significant competition on the part of investors. Interest has been largely focused on office because of the visibility -- the tradeability -- of those assets, and on the apartment sector, because of its stronger fundamentals and the availability of credit through government sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae.
Q Let's get to your preliminary numbers as of last week.
A We had $54.6 billion in transaction activity nationwide in 2009, and that more than doubled over the course of 2010, to $117 billion. New York City was at the leading edge of that balance, with $16.9 billion in transactions last year, up from $6.5 billion in 2009.
In New York, office transactions totaled $8.4 billion in 2010, compared with $2.9 billion; apartments totaled $4.3 billion, versus $1.4 billion. Hotel was $1.6 billion, up from $522.3 million; retail, $1.6 billion, up from $946.6 million; and industrial, $1.1 billion, up from $726.5 million.
Q What was the biggest transaction in 2010?
A I'll give you a hint: it's an office building. The largest transaction has been the closed sale in December of 111 Eighth Avenue to Google as its New York headquarters. The property transacted for $1.8 billion, or $621 a square foot. The next-largest transaction, the McGraw Hill headquarters at 1221 Sixth Avenue, a slightly smaller property, traded at $1.28 billion.
Foreign buyers have played a very significant role. In the case of 1221 Sixth Avenue, the buyer was the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. For foreigners it's a combination of the attractiveness of the New York market and pressures to diversify outside home markets.
Q Foreigners seem to be involved in more than buying properties.
A Take, for example, the Bank of China, which has been providing some significant financing in the New York City area over the last couple of months. There's an argument to be made that new constraints being introduced by the government of mainland China on development activity -- the ability of lenders to finance transactions out of concern that property prices are rising too rapidly in both residential and commercial sectors -- has ultimately meant that large, established lenders in those markets have had to explore opportunities elsewhere.
Q So credit has loosened up.
A Absolutely. And because credit markets are improving we have the capacity to trade larger and more visible properties.
Q What's your outlook for 2011?
A We'll continue to see strong momentum in pricing metrics -- whether it be lower cap rates or higher prices per square foot. We'll continue to see that a diversity of lenders in the market will support investors in their eagerness to acquire properties in the apartment and office sectors.
The challenge for us is the potential for interest rates to rise. They have risen over the course of the last couple of months, from their lows in October, in a way that we've been able to absorb. But if they rise in a more significant way, because of geopolitical factors or a change in the monetary policy or investors' tolerance for risk, that has the potential to ultimately drive cap rates in the other direction. Then borrowing costs could rise in the way that would be problematic.
Q You also teach at the Wharton School, where you received a Ph.D. in applied economics.
A I'm teaching real estate finance and investment analysis -- one semester a year, twice a week. I've taught there for over a decade, so it's nice to be able to follow your students' careers.
Q Are you seeing more or less interest in commercial real estate from your students?
A Interest has actually picked up. The evidence of a recovery in the last year has drawn students in.
Interview conducted and condensed by VIVIAN MARINO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); GOOGLE INC (52%); AQUANTIVE INC (51%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); 3988 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011

 
