

401 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2536 words

HEADLINE: A Hub Once More?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD

 BODY:
THIS is New York's oldest and largest incorporated village. Now Hempstead is campaigning to become the state's newest city -- and that is only one of many changes afoot here.
After four decades of decline and sporadic attempts at revival, Hempstead is on an upswing. Government officials, sometimes working in concert with a new core of community activists, are determined to recapture some of the old glory of Hempstead's nearly four centuries of existence. 
 "In 1989 it was like a ghost town here," said James A. Garner, who became mayor that year. "They were giving property away downtown -- free rentals." Today Hempstead is capitalizing on the national and local economic boom to foster major new developments in the village. Mayor Garner said: "If not now, when?"
Settled in 1643 by Puritans seeking religious freedom, Hempstead reigned well into the 20th century as the undisputed hub of Long Island as the region's population and business center. It has served as a transportation crossroads since early in the horse and buggy days -- the official village seal depicts George Washington arriving here on a stagecoach in 1790.
"Historically, Hempstead was the downtown area, before suburbia spread throughout Nassau," said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. "It was the center, the destination point."
But Hempstead fell on hard times after World War II. The village was dwarfed as swaths of farmland across much of the island were transformed into thickly populated subdivisions. Hempstead Town -- the entity that surrounds and includes the village -- grew to 725,000 people, making it the nation's most populous town.
The accompanying rise of indoor shopping malls, especially at nearby Roosevelt Field, siphoned shoppers from the once-flourishing village downtown. One by one, stores like Arnold & Constable, Town & Country, Lane Bryant, Sears, S. Klein and TSS Seedman closed. The final blow came in 1992 with the demise of the giant Abraham & Straus department store, which as late as 1969 had been the nation's highest-grossing suburban store. Along with those closings, "we lost our mom-and-pop stores," said Dorothy L. Goosby, a Town Council member who lives in the village.
Hempstead was not alone. "All our downtowns have suffered because of the malls," said the town supervisor, Richard V. Guardino Jr. But Hempstead was the biggest and suffered the most.
Suburbia's emerging automobile culture and drive-in economy relegated Hempstead's once-thriving bus terminal and train station to second-class status. As blacks became a majority in the village, followed in more recent years by a wave of Hispanic immigrants, household income lagged behind the county average. School rankings plunged. Crime rates soared, and concerns about safety loomed large for many whites who used to frequent the downtown.
Adding insult to injury, three years ago County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta appointed a panel to promote the concept of a new Nassau Hub. Its focus shifted north and east of the Village of Hempstead, to the business and county government complex in Garden City, the retail zone in and around Roosevelt Field and the Mitchel Field area with Nassau Coliseum, office buildings and colleges.
"They stole our name," said Hezekiah Brown, a trustee on the village board.
Mayor Garner is not ready to yield. "Hempstead was the Hub of Nassau County, and, as far as I am concerned, still is," he said. "There's no sense trying to establish a new Hub. Don't reinvent the wheel."
So far, little has materialized of Mr. Gulotta's dreams for a new Hub, featuring the construction of a new coliseum, convention hall and entertainment center. Instead, the county's economic future is clouded by its recurring deficits and falling credit rating.
The old Hub, meanwhile, is forging ahead, and local officials have even higher hopes if Hempstead can reap the financial advantages of becoming a city.
"This is the new downtown," Mayor Garner said last week as he watched construction workers smoothing the freshly poured concrete floor at what will become a 135,000-square-foot Home Depot. The store will anchor a new mall -- called the Hub -- that will symbolically resurrect the vacant old A. & S., which was finally demolished last year. It will also house Old Navy and ShopRite stores and provide parking for nearly 1,300 cars. The ShopRite will fill a void left by the closing of a 10-year-old Waldbaum's last year, which was a jolt to the village.
Nearby is a new mall that opened last year on the former TSS site, with Staples, Pep Boys, Hollywood Video and McDonald's. Construction is under way for a new $22 million Long Island Rail Road station.
The latest surge of development comes after a decade of incremental progress downtown. The county's First District Court House opened in 1990. A new $8 million bus terminal, serving 26 Long Island routes and three interstate companies, was built in 1993. The old terminal was renovated into shops. The Rivoli, a handsome four-story building with 112 apartments for the elderly and ground-floor businesses, opened in 1998.
The latest improvements win praise from Supervisor Guardino, who grew up in the village. "I'm looking out the office window right now at Mayor Garner's revitalization efforts," he said. "What he has done is a real model."
Dr. Koppelman is more guarded about Hempstead's prospects. "The village has tried valiantly to make a turnaround," he said. "But you know, when you lose an anchor store, it leaves a big hole and you lose all the little stores. It's very difficult."
He called the efforts remarkable, though, and said the village had restored parts of downtown "into a very nice walking area, very nice." Even so, he predicts that Hempstead will never fully recover its former pre-eminence. "Historically they were the Hub," Dr. Koppelman said, "but realistically now, forget it."
Hempstead is in ferment politically as well as economically. For the first time in 20 years, Democrats were elected to the five-member village board last year: Mr. Brown and his running mate, Wayne Hall. Both also had strong support from the union-oriented Working Families Party. The two new village trustees are also prominent members of the national Association of Community Organizations for Reform, known as Acorn.
Acorn opened its Long Island chapter in Hempstead a little over a year ago and has championed a variety of causes, including more neighborhood police patrols, more bilingual police officers and rent relief for the elderly. Its major focus has been housing, marshaling tenants and badgering village officials to crack down on landlords who have neglected major downtown apartment buildings.
"A majority of the people are tenants, and nothing was being done about it till the tenants were organized," said Acorn's head organizer here, Ann E. Sullivan. "Since Hez and Wayne got elected, there has definitely been a sea change. The mayor has come to Acorn meetings and has begun to call the landlords in on the carpet."
Asked about Acorn, Mayor Garner said: "They're aggressive, very aggressive. But I'm being very responsive to them. I'm working with them. Their message has been heard, and we've been very tough on these unscrupulous landlords," seeking civil and criminal penalties.
"This is a very beautiful community," Trustee Brown said. "The homes are kept up, the lawns are kept up. The streets are cleaned. We do have a perception problem. If you drove through Hempstead and did not see black faces, you could not tell any difference from any other community." Housing ranges from the downtown apartments to the stately manses of Cathedral Avenue to the more typical middle-class, single-family neighborhoods.
But Hempstead Heights, a scrupulously neat neighborhood in the area around Princeton, Yale and Harvard Streets, is dotted by signs of trouble even in these rosy economic times: boarded-up houses. Ms. Sullivan blamed what she called "predatory mortgage companies" that stick naive homeowners with unconscionably high loan rates. To fend off foreclosure, owners often resort to carving out illegal apartments. Whether in houses or apartment buildings, rents are so high that tenants are often forced to double up, Ms. Sullivan said.
The resulting overcrowding strains the schools and other services. Although there has been little residential construction in the village in recent years, experts estimate that its population, which the 1990 census recorded at 49,453, had soared 16 percent to 57,476 by 1997. "There is a vast undercount," Mayor Garner said. "The village seems to be a mecca for Central Americans."
Another issue for Hempstead is the overtaxing of its homeowners under the county's archaic assessment system. Community leaders hope pending litigation will force an overhaul that will give the village homeowners relief.
Among Hempstead's assets are the New York Jets headquarters and training camp, Hofstra University, the African American Museum, the Calderone Theater, Hempstead Lake Park, Hempstead Golf Club, Island General Hospital, the nation's oldest continuous Presbyterian congregation, a Best Western hotel and the dealerships on the still-expanding "automobile row," a strip that dates to the early 1900's. Near the village perimeter are Mercy Hospital, Molloy College, Adelphi University, the Garden City Hotel, the stores and brokerage houses of North Franklin avenue -- and the upstart rival hub of Roosevelt Field, Mitchel Field and the business offices and county government complex in Garden City.
"The real strength of Hempstead is that it is centrally located: 10 minutes to Suffolk County, 10 minutes to Queens, 10 minutes to the North Shore, 10 minutes to the South Shore," Mayor Garner said.
Even if he is shaving several minutes from the actual driving times, all roads do seem to lead to Hempstead. The Southern State Parkway is the village's southern border and connects to the nearby Meadowbrook, Northern State and Cross Island Parkways. Hempstead Turnpike, Franklin Avenue, Clinton Road and Peninsula Boulevard are also major thoroughfares.
Over the years, many government agencies have located offices in Hempstead, drawn by the transportation system, reasonable rents and extensive parking lots that are the envy of other villages. The offices and agencies include Town Hall, Nassau's off-track betting headquarters, the courthouse, the motor vehicle department, the worker's compensation board, the parole office, the labor department and the state tax department.
Drawing thousands of visitors and commuters daily, those offices have helped to stabilize Hempstead's downtown. But few people linger; many streets seem relatively deserted at night and on weekends. Despite urban renewal demolitions over the years, some storefronts are still vacant, including the building next to the mayor's family business, Grand Central exterminators.
Among the few night life attractions are the Jamaican-Chinese restaurant Nakisaki and the adjoining Jam Roc club. Hispanic restaurants and Caribbean food shops have proliferated downtown but have not drawn a wide clientele. "There are lots of nice little restaurants -- I've been to most of them," said Donald Kehoe, a retired O.T.B. executive, "but I found it hard to get guys from the office to go with me."
Planners hope that the new large stores will help create the critical mass and customer traffic to support more small shops.
Census statistics show enormous demographic shifts. In 1950, as the tide of suburbanization began, the census reported that Hempstead's population was 29,135, with about 91 percent white and 9 percent black. The countywide figures were 672,765, with 97 percent white and 3 percent black. By 1980, blacks had become a majority in the village, at 57 percent, compared with 40 percent for whites, 9 percent for Hispanics and 3 percent for Asians, American Indians and others. (The total exceeds 100 percent because Hispanics, who were counted separately for the first time in 1980, may also identify themselves as black or white.) By 1997, the big change was among Hispanics, who had risen to nearly 23 percent of the village's population. The countywide population had grown to 1.3 million but remained mostly white, 86 percent. Blacks were 9 percent, Hispanics 7 percent and Asians, Indians and others 5 percent.
Hempstead's household income has fallen behind the countywide average for decades. In 1950 the median figure for the village was $24,781, calculated in 1997 dollars. By 1997, that figure had grown 104 percent to $50,672. But the countywide figure, which was $27,738 in 1950, had grown 164 percent to $73,364 in 1997.
The village has also had one of the highest crime rates in the county. In 1998, for example, Nassau had 25 murders, of which 8 were in Hempstead. But the village police chief, James Russo, claims big strides in reducing crime over all, which dropped 42 percent in 1997 and 1998, according to county statistics. "Usually it's a domestic type of thing or involves drugs or gangs," he said.
Still, the perception of downtown as unsafe has persisted in some minds. Village officials say that it is largely a myth and that some white suburbanites simply feel uneasy around blacks and Hispanics they are not acquainted with.
Hempstead's schools have come under criticism. For much of the 1990's, barely 6 percent of high school seniors earned Regents diplomas. "The schools are not educating the kids to get the jobs they need to raise families," Ms. Sullivan of Acorn said.
Mayor Garner said that the district's new superintendent, Dr. Nathaniel Clay, had brought stability after a period of high administrative turnover and succeeded in removing the district from a special state review for failing schools. Dr. Clay did not respond to requests for comment last week, nor did the district respond when Acorn organized a protest two years ago.
The schools could get a boost if Hempstead becomes a city. Mayor Garner is frank about his reason for seeking city status: more money. He said Hempstead would be entitled to keep several million dollars a year in local sales taxes that now go to the county and town, which would enable it to go ahead with new programs and property tax cuts. And the schools would qualify for more state aid.
Converting to a city, which is a rarely taken step, requires state legislation, followed by a local referendum, and the village has hired a lawyer to help guide the complex process. Long Island has only two other cities, Glen Cove and Long Beach, both smaller than Hempstead.
There may be philosophical objections. "Some people may say, 'I moved to the suburbs to get away from the city,' " Trustee Brown said. "But we don't see any downside to it. We're really a city already. We have all the services: police, sanitation, water, you name it. The only thing we don't have is the sales tax."
Mayor Garner said, "We just want our fair share." With sales thriving on automobile row and the prospect of cash registers humming at Home Depot and the other new stores, he said, "incorporating the village as a city comes at the right time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The village of Hempstead shows its long history as the Nassau Hub along with signs of change: downtown, seen on Main Street, with the beginnings of a revival, and from left, St. George's Church on Front Street; an upscale home on Cathedral Avenue; the new bus terminal, and Mayor James A. Garner, above at right, with the contractor Maurice Gawendo at the site of the new Home Depot. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Chart/Graph: "COMPARISON: Tracking Growth"
The Village of Hempstead is striving to hold onto it's name as the "Hub of Nassau County." Here is a brief comparison.
 
Graph plots the population of the Village of Hempstead and Nassau County in 1950, 1970, 1990 and 1997.
 
Graph shows Median Household Income In 1997 dollars.
 
(Source: Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); RELIGION (72%); RETAILERS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES AGARNER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



402 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 14; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Law Students Aid Abuse Victims

BYLINE: By JAMES V. O'CONNOR

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
WHEN a Westchester woman called the Pace Women's Justice Center here, her husband had accumulated 18 guns and 200 pounds of ammunition, and he was not even a hunter. He had mutilated the family cat and then bludgeoned it to death. He suffered from bipolar disorder, was an alcoholic and a wife beater.
The woman is one of 96 who have applied for orders of protection against their batterers through the Pace Women's Justice Center, an organization that provides legal counsel to battered women under the jurisdiction of the White Plains County Courts. The organization moved into its own office in the court building on Oct. 26 through grants from the county and Pace University. 
 What makes the program unusual is that it has been authorized by the courts to allow law students to represent abused women in Family Court to get an order of protection. Orders of protection can require that a person vacate the home, make no contact with the woman being abused or require the batterer to pay restitution for damages.
Law students who take part in the program must complete a course in domestic violence advocacy offered by the center. "The program is unique in that we provide one-stop legal shopping for civil relief for battered women, and it is done by law students supervised by attorneys," said Victoria L. Lutz, executive director of the Pace Women's Justice Center and an adjunct law professor at Pace University Law School.
There were more than 60,000 orders of protection issued in the state last year for battered women and more than 4 million incidents of spousal abuse a year in the United States, Ms. Lutz said. An order of protection in Family Court under state law requires that the parties be married, related by blood or have a child. Orders that are sought against people who do not fall into those categories have to be sought in criminal court. "There have been bills before the State Legislature to expand the definition of a family member," Ms. Lutz said, "but it has never been successful because some people think that this would open up the floodgates and overburden the Family Court system."
In the case of women being abused by their live-in companions the act has to be a criminal violation or misdemeanor and the order must be sought in Criminal Court.
Six months ago, the Pace Women's Justice Center established a special program called Deter with the White Plains Police Department. Its aim is to provide immediate legal counsel for abused women when they first come into contact with the criminal justice system, usually a 911 call to the police. The program has lawyers on call 24 hours a day to provide legal advice to battered women.
The White Plains police call the center when they are called to a domestic dispute that indicates that a woman is a potential victim of abuse, and the lawyers talk to the woman about her legal rights. A follow-up meeting is scheduled within 24 hours to ensure that the case is not dropped. "We think that by having contact with an attorney early on the women are more confident in facing their batterer in court and are more likely to follow through," Rebecca Fialk, director of Deter, said.
The program has already made a significant impact on the number of completed orders of protection, Ms. Lutz said. Since Deter started, 65 percent of the orders of protection initiated have been followed through, compared with 45 percent previously. And 95 percent of temporary orders have been upgraded since the program began, compared with 25 percent previously.
Although Deter is being done as a pilot with the White Plains Police Department, the center wants to expand it countywide. The program receives an average of 10 calls a month, with most coming in between midnight and 4 a.m. on Mondays and after holiday weekends. "We don't know why this is when we get most of our calls," Ms. Fialk said, "but it seems to have something to do with the end of the weekend, and drinking is usually involved."
The center conducts legal seminars for other lawyers, battered women and social workers to teach them about the legal aspects of domestic violence since often women do not realize that menacing and harassment can be remedied through an order of protection.
The law students and the lawyers in the program usually try to persuade an abused woman to get a vacate order immediately, which requires the abuser to leave the home.
"The victim doesn't often realize it but they are in the most danger when they seek to change the situation," said Mary Meenan of White Plains, a second-year law student in the program. "It's clear to us that the best thing is to get the guy out of the house, but quite often they aren't ready to make a clean break. But we are there for them if it takes going to court 10 times to get the situation right."
Ms. Meenan observed that abuse is about control and transcends all social and economic levels. The more educated batterers will use manipulation and cruelty rather than physical battering to abuse a spouse, she said. "We have had rich professionals to the poorest of the poor come in here, but they all have one thing in common: they want the abuse to stop," Ms. Meenan said.
Quite often women do not realize that the legal approach is the only way to get the abuse to stop, Ms. Fialk said. A number of conflicting emotions like fear, loyalty, embarrassment and denial prevent many battered women from following through, she said. "Most people don't want further complications in their life, and they don't rush to the justice system unless it is very serious," Ms. Fialk said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jade Platania, Pace Law School student, with a client at the Pace Women's Justice Center in White Plains. (Richard L. Harbus for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE CENTER (78%); WHITE PLAINS POLICE DEPARTMENT (65%); FAMILY COURT (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE CENTER (78%); WHITE PLAINS POLICE DEPARTMENT (65%); FAMILY COURT (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (90%); FAMILY COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); WOMEN (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); MISDEMEANORS (75%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); DAMAGES (72%); CATS (72%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (57%); 

PERSON: VICTORIA L LUTZ (73%); PACE WOMEN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



403 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2630 words

HEADLINE: Main Street Braces For Another Assault

BYLINE: By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

DATELINE: HADDONFIELD

 BODY:
IT is about 1 p.m. on a Saturday, and there's a wait for a table at The Maple Leaf Diner in downtown Maplewood. In the meantime, people are checking out the window at Sweets and Treats by Jacqui, where gingerbread houses made by local Girl Scouts are on display.
That same afternoon in downtown Summit, you can barely find a seat at the Starbucks across the street from the train station, and you have to thread your way through upscale shopping district a few times before finding a parking space. 
 Back in early December, borough officials in Haddonfield published a letter in a local newspaper urging holiday shoppers not to get so caught up in the Internet shopping craze that they would forget to spend some of their dollars closer to home.
"As we make our holiday shopping lists we should all be mindful that the viability of our town depends on the vitality of our business district," wrote Mayor Eugene H. Kain and two commissioners. "Every dollar we spend downtown is a dollar invested, a dollar that will pay dividends for our entire community."
As merchants along the Main Streets of New Jersey's 566 municipalities look back on the prosperous 1990's and ahead to a new century, they have reason to be pleased but wary. To them, shopping on the Web is yet one more assault on their desire to work and live the American dream.
First, in the post-World War II 1950's, came the flood of cars and the appearance of the shopping center. In the 1960's, 70's and beyond, enclosed malls lured shoppers. And in the 1980's and 90's, designer-name outlet stores and slick catalogs began competing for shopping dollars. All the while -- as suburban sprawl created the need for more and more strip shopping centers -- Main Street suffered.
Then in 1995, as merchants came up with new and creative ways to draw shoppers back downtown, Amazon.com opened to the world and people began ordering off the Web.
"Just when you thought you'd evolved into something different than the malls, there's the virtual world," said Sheila Goodman, president of the Haddonfield Business and Professional Association and owner of N. K. Thaine Gallery. "But that's retailing."
Mary Lou McLarney, who has owned and operated the Country Fair gift store on Main Street in Moorestown since 1993, sees the charm and practicality of shopping downtown this way. "It's a personal touch, like knowing someone's name when they walk into the store," Ms. McLarney said. "That's what's holding small-town shopping areas together. These are people who enjoy shopping and it's an experience for them."
While Internet shopping did surge this year, merchants insist that e-commerce -- thanks to the booming economy and a wariness by many about buying online -- did not hurt New Jersey's downtowns, which in fact enjoyed a healthy holiday season.
Retailers and Chamber of Commerce presidents, like many of the nation's larger retailers, reported a late but good shopping season.
The holiday season, which brought an estimated $300 billion in sales nationally, included a jump in online holiday shopping and ticket sales to about $10 billion in 1999 from $3.5 billion in 1998, according to Shop.org, the trade association of online retailers, and the Boston Consulting Group. The study showed a 270 percent growth from 1998 in the number of orders placed by online consumers.
In 1999, about 1.2 pecent of holiday shopping was done on the Internet, as against 0.5 percent the previous year, said James Vogtle, director of e-commerce research for tThe Boston Consulting Group. But in areas like books and computers, the figures were higher, with about 5 percent of book purchases and 9.2 percent of computer purchases made online. About 5 percent of ticket sales were also made on the computer, Mr. Vogtle said.
"It's a small percentage now," he noted. "In most categories, retailers haven't felt a big impact."
But that could change as people get more comfortable with e-commerce and as the generations that used computers as small children become the nation's primary consumers, Mr. Vogtle said.
"In 10 to 15 years, it's going to be quite remarkable," he said. "There will be a whole generation that has never been able to not shop on the computer. That is going to be the watershed. The really broad sweeping effect may not be felt for 10 years."
A Small Business Administration study made public last year showed that about 35 percent of small businesses now have Web sites, but many of those sites are used for information and advertising rather than sites where customers can place orders. The cost to establish and maintain a Web site is still too high for many small operations, coupled with the need to have the technical ability to maintain the site or hire someone to maintain it, said Bruce D. Phillips, director of the Office of Economic Research for the federal agency.
While e-commerce is gaining in popularity, it is still too soon to tell if it will hurt small businesses, and particularly the traditional type of Main Street retailers, Mr. Phillips said.
"What it means for individuals, stores and individual towns we don't really know yet," he said. "It's too new yet. Its effect is going to be location specific and industry specific."
Stores that sell books or music may be affected more than purveyors of gifts and art pieces, Mr. Phillips said. A study of small booksellers now underway shows that "they are feeling the squeeze," he said.
"If you've been around for 30 years I don't think e-commerce is going to wipe you out," he said. "How many people are going to buy a $500 piece of art online?"
And many people still want face-to-face service that the Web cannot yet deliver.
Ms. McLarney, who operates the Country Fair gift shop and is president of the Moorestown Business Association, said the town's stores -- including her own -- had a good holiday season.
Even on a Saturday afternoon in early January, the downtown streets in towns like Summit, Maplewood and Haddonfield are bustling.
In Maplewood, for instance, store occupancy is 100 percent downtown. Elliott Schabses, the owner of the Cornercopia gift shop and president of the town's Chamber of Commerce, said the holiday season was a good one.
"I do think e-commerce will hurt some businesses like books and toys," Mr. Schabses said. But he said there are many "loyal customers" in Maplewood and in adjacent towns who support the local businesses.
In Summit, Jane and Ralph Eboli have come down from Brooklyn to shop, as they do many weekends. They recently bought a bed at a store in Summit that they could easily have purchased at a specialty shop in Manhattan, but they prefer the small-town experience.
"I like coming, looking and feeling," said Ms. Eboli. "There's a quaintness. It's clean and it's pleasant."
Indeed, some of the businesses that seem as if they would be hurt the most are still doing well. Christopher's Books and Gifts in Summit had a very good Christmas season -- better than 1998, said Rayma Moore, one of the owners.
"It's basic information, not just service" that gives her store an edge over the Internet or the chains, Ms. Moore said. When someone asks for a book for a specific age group, the staff is ready to make recommendations and show what is in stock.
"With young children's books, they really need to see it," said Ms. Moore, whose store has been in Summit for 22 years.
Others -- like those buying shoes or sneakers -- have to feel it.
Joe Puleo, who opened the Haddonfield Running Company three years ago on Kings Highway, the borough's main shopping street, said, "I wouldn't say the Internet is something we're worried about because our whole premise is, we need to see your foot in here."
Mr. Puleo said his business was up 20 percent compared with the 1998 holiday season. And though he has a Web site, he said it was for information and sale shoes only.
"We don't encourage people to get shoes off the Web site," he said. "Without your foot being here, we can't do it."
Around the corner, Tom Joyce, who owns the Trailboss, with his wife, Ronda, knows that customers might find cheaper backpacks and hiking boots on the Web, but if they want his high-end items and they want them to work well, Mr. Joyce says, they need to come into his store and walk around in the boots with the pack on their back. They also carry brands that aren't on the Internet, he said. "We set up to be Internet proof," he added.
Haddonfield, established in 1713, is a borough with a mix of Victorians and many older homes that have undergone renovations, landscaped lawns and historic buildings. At Christmas, almost every home has window candles and at Halloween every porch has a scarecrow. Country gift stores, galleries, a dog bakery, high-end clothing boutiques, restaurants and a Starbucks line Kings Highway.
Quaint and comfortable as it may be here, the owners of small specialty businesses seem to understand that they need to put out a hand to their own community and surrounding towns. In the front of Mr. Puleo's running store is a bulletin board with newspaper clippings about the area's high school runners. In the past he has closed the store to attend cross country meets in the area, and can often be seen running through town with his customers.
"You need to have a relationship that goes beyond them giving you money and you giving them a product," Mr. Puleo said. "You have to reach out and get people to come in here."
Downtown events have become another way to entice people and familiarize them with their local shopping districts. For instance, Summit, Maplewood and Haddonfield all sponsor events during the year. Haddonfield and Summit have a First Night celebration on New Year's Eve, and Maplewood's streets are packed on Halloween with costumed children seeking candy. On July 4, when Maplewood Avenue is closed to traffic, 10,000 people come to town for Independence Day activities. Haddonfield tries to hold an event every month, and in early July about 100,000 people pack a closed section of Kings Highway for a crafts festival.
At the end of January, the borough and business association plans to try "Souper Saturday" for the first time. In conjunction with National Soup Month, restaurants will have soup samples and there will be a recipe contest.
"It's a constant battle," said Letitia G. Colombi, Haddonfield's deputy mayor, who has lived in the town 31 years. "These business cannot rely on just the 12,000 people in town to keep them going."
In addition to special events, the towns must be willing to put money into enhancing the business district, Mrs. Colombi said. Last year, the borough put $30,000 in its budget for requests from the business association. This year, the commissioners are expected to approve $50,000 for the downtown shopping area for such enticements as advertising, special events and to run the visitors' center.
"My vision of a downtown is not just a place to shop, but the heart of a community," she said. "You have to hope that the person who moves to this town feels a commitment to support it."
To that end, Summit plans a $4 million streetscape improvement project this spring, said Joe Steiner, president of the Suburban Chamber of Commerce, which serves Summit, New Providence and Berkeley Heights. The project will include new sidewalks, street lights, trees and utility upgrades.
In recent years the downtown, which has about a 95 percent occupancy rate, has faced competition from the Mall at Short Hills and from the Internet, Mr. Steiner said.
"Our goal is to compete on the highest level with quality and expert service," he said.
Mr. Steiner said likes to tell customers that when they go to the mall they won't meet Mr. Nordstrom in his store, but they will meet Bernie or Mark Needell if they show up at Nee Dell's for their shoes.
Sometimes, bad experiences on the Internet will bring people back to Main Street. For instance, Linda Springer of Puzzles and Pageantry, a store with collectibles, gifts and games in Haddonfield, said a couple came into her store last month looking for a chess set. They had ordered one through the Internet but when it did not come they went back online and found out the set was back ordered and would not be delivered by Dec. 16, when they needed it. Instead, they bought a $500 chess set from Ms. Springer.
"The Internet companies still have some growing to do in their own fulfillment," she said. Ms. Springer had a Web site for several years by shut it down in 1997 because it was too difficult to fill orders off the web and give full attention to the store. This year, she said she had her best holiday season, with sales up 20 percent from last year.
While people may not always want to buy off the Internet, they are increasingly using it to check prices and learn more about the items they are interested in purchasing.
Kevin Kozlowski, manager of J. E. Caldwell, a jewelry store on Nassau Street, the main shopping street in Princeton, said he had noticed that when people came to look at diamonds, they had already done research on the Web.
"Some people think it's the death knell for retailers as we know them," Mr. Koslowski said of the Internet. "We don't think so."
People still want "the emotional and visceral experience" of buying a piece of jewelry, he added.
He said he thought that for jewelers, the Internet would probably have its greatest effect on the watch business because people can see a certain brand and style and then try to find it for a better price on the Web. Caldwell, which is based in Philadelphia, is now setting up a Web site with product information.
Melanie Willoughby, president of New Jersey Merchants Retail Association, advises businesses to at least have a presence on the Web so that if someone looks up where to buy a certain type of bicycle, their shops come up on the list.
"I think everyone is going to have to look at the fact that the typical e-commerce customer is very well heeled," Ms. Willoughby said, noting that most have annual incomes of at least $75,000. "You're going to have to advertise online and be in the mix."
Downtown shopping may become more the venue of the shopper who wants to take some time, rather than someone who wants to quick buy a few gifts on the Web during a break at work.
Joan Brennan, who owns Bayberry's, a gift shop in Merchantville, says her shoppers want to browse and look at the Boyd's Bears and Mary Engelbreit items before making a purchase. It's "a different kind of customer" than someone who uses the Internet to order items, Ms. Brennan said.
Emi Hava, who has owned Paperfolio in downtown Summit for 16 years, also sees her customer base as people who want to see and touch what they are buying.
"We battled the battle of the malls and then came the catalogs," said Ms. Hava, who is also chairwoman of Summit Downtown Inc. "When everything shakes down you'll lose some money, but the fact of the matter is that people like to shop. They like to go to lunch and shop."
And the downtowns still have the tug of nostalgia that a Web site cannot create. Haddonfield advertises itself as "shopping the way it used to be."
"At one time that comparison was with the hustle and bustle of the malls," said David Hunter, the owner of "What's On in Haddonfield," the twice-monthly newspaper that published the letter urging consumers to shop downtown.
"Now it's going to have a different meaning," Mr. Hunter said. "It's not the mall that's the threat, it's e-commerce. I think it's going to be a challenge for small towns. They will have to emphasize personal service and value for money. Certainly the Internet lets you shop day and night from anywhere, but it seems to me that people will always value personal contact."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Haddonfield's Letitia Colombi: A "constant battle."; In Summit, Mark Needell helps Marisol Grobert.; Despite the surge in e-commerce during the past holiday season, many people say they still want the face-to-face service they receive from merchants in towns such as Maplewood. (pg. 1); On a Saturday afternoon in early January, you have to thread your way through downtown Summit, left, a few times before finding a parking space. Elliott Schabses, inset, president of the the Maplewood Chamber of Commerce, says commercial occupancy in the shopping district is 100 percent.; Haddonfield officials have urged shoppers not to get too caught up in Internet craze. (Photographs by Dith Pran for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (52%); TTHE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TTHE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (75%); MAYORS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); SUBURBS (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES VOGTLE (64%); MARY LOU MCLARNEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



404 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 11; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Maplewood Hopes to Save A Historic Piece of Its Past

BYLINE: By ANITA DENNIS

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD

 BODY:
Who wants to buy a 10-room Greek Revival home built in 1843 and the 1831 mill next door to it? That's a pressing question for the descendants of one of New Jersey's oldest families, and for their neighbors.
In 1831, Lewis Pierson opened a three-story gristmill in an area that would ultimately become Maplewood. This year, the business he started, which has since evolved into a lawn and garden center, will close after nearly 170 years in operation, giving up its fight to remain one of the area's last links to the state's agrarian past. 
 Now the Pierson family's two-and-a-half-acre property and historic buildings -- nestled alongside the golf course of the Maplewood Country Club and depicted in murals in town hall -- are on the market for $1.65 million, and the community is anxiously watching to see what will become of them.
For the family, changing times have made it impossible to continue.
"It's just too hard to stay in business," said Greg Pierson, 48, a member of the sixth generation to run what is now called Pierson's Mill Garden Center, which caters mainly to area homeowners. Mr. Pierson and his brother, Mark, 45, started working in the business in their 20's, but there is no seventh generation of Piersons -- after whom a local street is even named -- to follow in their footsteps.
Long a part of the town's fabric, the family is remembered for extending credit in the Depression and for making deliveries when a buyer could not get to the store. The Pierson family has worked with groundskeepers from such places as Rockefeller Center and Riverside Church, and the store is renowned locally for its variety of lawn seed mixes in distinctive cloth sacks.
According to Mr. Pierson, several factors have contributed to the business's closing -- set for June 30 -- including a nearby Home Depot that has sliced off about 15 percent of his business. While less than a decade ago the Piersons might have had as many as four full- and part-time employees, they are now down to seasonal part-time help.
Ironically, the strong economy has presented another challenge, enabling more homeowners to hire landscapers instead of tending to their own yards, says Greg Pierson.
Even before Home Depot arrived, Pierson's had begun opening on Sundays to make shopping easier for busy two-income families. "My brother and I are dedicated people, but everybody needs a day of rest," Greg Pierson said. Along with the family patriarch, Hubert, 76, the sons decided that the business had seen its day.
Greg Pierson plans to relocate to New England with his wife, Patty, though he is uncertain what he will do once he gets there. "I'm not afraid to work," he said, "although I'd like to avoid retail."
For generations, residents of Maplewood and surrounding communities relied on the Piersons for seed and grain in its early days and, more recently, for garden supplies and advice.
"If you go in and ask about a problem you're having with your lawn, they'll say, 'Let me take a ride by and look at it,' " said Barbara Heisler Williams, who lives within walking distance of the mill. "You'll see people pulling their red Radio Flyer wagons down to Pierson's to pick up bulbs in the fall."
The family's personal approach has been good business. "Our expertise has always been problem solving, helping people, that's why we managed to survive," Greg Pierson said. "I can't offer price points because of my overhead. But to provide a high level of service, I have to spend too many hours that I'm not necessarily compensated for."
The possible loss of the buildings has prompted the town, which boasts a number of historic homes under private ownership, to address the question of historic preservation. Recently the township formed an ad hoc committee to study the issue, but the sale of Pierson's "is a private business transaction and the town really has no standing in the deal," Mayor Jerry Ryan said, noting, however, that any buyer would be subject to local zoning regulations. "My hope is that the family will be able to sell it at a price they want to someone who will preserve it."
News of the sale took most residents by surprise. "Since the family has been there for six generations, you're lulled into a sense of complacency," said Ellen Davenport, a former mayor and an owner of a plant shop that had been operating on the property since 1976 but that closed last year in anticipation of the sale.
It has also galvanized preservationists. "We were shocked to realize there is no town ordinance to prevent tearing down an 1830's mill," said Alison Blank, a member of Preservation Maplewood, a group formed last September after the Piersons' plans became known. The Durand-Hedden House and Garden Association, a local historical organization, has offered to underwrite the cost of research to nominate the buildings to national and state historic registers, which would qualify a buyer for tax incentives, according to the association president, Susan Newberry.
Ms. Newberry says the site may boast the only extant mill building in Essex County and one of the last temple-front Greek Revival houses left in the state.
Marion Harris, chairman of the Morris County Trust for Historic Preservation and an instructor and member of the advisory board at Drew University's certificate program in historic preservation, said: "The property is absolutely unique in so many ways. It's an unusually intact site from a period that doesn't have a lot of examples. In addition, the house was built by one of the founding families of New Jersey."
The community's concerns about the consequences of a sale often are overridden by the town's affection for the family. While Ms. Heisler Williams acknowledges that she worries about increased traffic in her neighborhood if the site is developed, she said, "nobody begrudges them the opportunity to relax after building this business all their lives. No one can be mad at someone who has been such a good neighbor."
Local preservationists say they are concerned that the family's realtor, Chip Mandell of Weichert New Homes and Land Co., is not doing enough to market the property to buyers who might be interested in its historic qualities. "The realtor needs to be careful because if you compromise the site in ways that don't respect the historic value, you lose all of that value," Ms. Harris said.
Preservation Maplewood, which has started its own word-of-mouth marketing campaign, has met with Mr. Mandell, Ms. Blank said, urging him to take such steps as advertising the site in preservation journals.
But Mr. Mandell said the property, which has generated a great deal of interest, was being advertised in newspapers' "prestigious homes" classified sections. He said he envisioned it being bought for use as anything from townhouses or an assisted living center to a professional office building, bed and breakfast, microbrewery or child-care center.
For the Piersons, the issue comes down to family. "I'd like to see the property used in a way that is in the best interests of the town," Greg Pierson said. "But the money my father gets from the sale has to carry him through the rest of his life. This is not the type of business that offers a large retirement fund. Deep down, I'd hate to see it torn down. However, I have to look out for my family."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1831, Lewis Pierson opened a gristmill in what would become Maplewood. Six generations later, it is for sale. At the Maplewood Town Hall, left, the mill and the Pierson home are captured on a mural. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MAPLEWOOD COUNTRY CLUB (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOME CENTERS (89%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MEN (74%); GOLF (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS PIERSON (94%); GREG PIERSON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



405 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
Where Washington Commanded, a New Battle Begins

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS

 BODY:
The stone house built in 1750 atop of a hill in West Amwell Township leads to a 38-acre farm now owned by David and Peggy Dondero. It was originally owned by Cornelius Coryell, a scout for George Washington and a patriot who was captured by the British and paraded along the Delaware River as a prisoner of war.
Washington conferred with patriot leaders at the farm and kept an eye on the Delaware and the boats that were to be used to ferry soldiers across it for the Christmas Day attack on the British in Trenton. 
 The site also has more recent significance. It was one of the first areas preserved under Governor Whitman's pledge to preserve a million acres in the state when an agreement was reached last spring between the state, two conservation groups and the Donderos to ban further development of the buildings and the woods surrounding them. Mr. Dondero and Linda J. Mead, executive director of the Delaware and Raritan Greenway, talked recently about the farm and its future.
Q. Why is this site important?
A. MS. MEAD New Jersey had more Revolutionary War battle sites than any other state. This site is one in the series that will form a trail linking Revolutionary War sites in central New Jersey together to show their historical importance.
This is also one of the first sites preserved as part of Governor Whitman's pledge to save one million acres over the next 10 years as open space and farmland.
This farm is the westernmost point of a stretch of greenway we want to extend across the center of the state to New Brunswick encompassing the Sourland Ridge, a ridge of high ground that runs east and west. The Delaware and Raritan Greenway has preserved pieces of land along the ridge. Our goal is to connect all of them and have a hiking trail that travels the entire route.
 Q. Why is it important to save the land?
A. MS. MEAD Nine acres from this farm on the north were sold off in the past that are actually within the border of Lambertville, which used to be known as Coryell's Crosssing, and condominiums have been built there. You can see them from the yard. On the other side, you can see the big estates marching up the road. A big corporate office center is going to be built nearby and the demand for housing is going to increase even more. If we don't save this and other places like it now, it will all be gone.
 Q. What does Greenways do?
A. MS. MEAD On this project we worked with the state's Green Acres program and with the Hunterdon Land Trust Alliance to put together money to buy the development rights from the Donderos, who donated part of the value of the land to conservation. The Donderos continue to own the land and they can leave it to their heirs or sell it to someone else, but it has to be preserved as it is forever.
In general, we work with property owners who are interested in preserving their land to work out the economics of it. There are a lot of ways this can be done and a lot of tax implications that have to be taken into consideration.
Q. As a property owner, why do you care what happens after you are gone?
A. MR. DONDERO The farm had already been cut up when we bought it and we did not want it to be cut up any further. We wanted to know that years from now this property would be the same. On my stewardship, the property was not going to be reduced further. People hike through the woods now without permission, and we don't really mind, but now there will be public access and hiking trails. We don't mind sharing the land. We have owls and turkeys in the woods. You'd be amazed at how remote it is.
 KAREN DeMASTERS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David and Peggy Donder and Linda J. Mead, right, at the Donders' farm in West Amwell Township. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HIKING (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); CHRISTMAS (55%); 

PERSON: LINDA J MEAD (78%); PEGGY DONDERO (68%); CORNELIUS CORYELL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



406 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
And More Cars Cross Bridges and Tunnels

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

 BODY:
Automobiles made a record number of crossings between New York and New Jersey in 1999, with a 2 percent increase driven mainly by economic growth, officials said last week. 
 A total of 123.6 million cars, trucks and buses made round trips through or over the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels and the George Washington, Bayonne, Goethals and Outerbridge Crossing bridges, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said. Much of the increase came from commercial traffic, particularly trucks headed to and from the Port Authority's Howland Hook Marine Terminal on Staten Island.
 STEVE STRUNSKY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); PORT AUTHORITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (86%); HARBORS & PORTS (86%); 

PERSON: LINCOLN TUNNELS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



407 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 12; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS;
Essex County Cuts Off Arts Center

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
The New Jersey Performing Arts Center can expect no contribution from Essex County this year, according to the county executive, James W. Treffinger.
In a statement released last week, Mr. Treffinger (below) said that while his administration "appreciates the importance of the arts and recreation to the quality of life of our citizens," the county could not spare any money for the center, which is in Newark. 
 Essex County sold $5 million worth of bonds to help finance the center in 1998, the year it opened.
Mr. Treffinger said the county was "committed to implementing welfare reform and to the construction of a new jail facility that will solve decades-old correctional problems."
Mayor Sharpe James of Newark, who has championed the arts as an essential component of his city's revitalization, expressed disappointment with the decision.
"We cannot say we want to have cultural facilities and not support them," Mr. James said. He added that he hopes the county will make in-kind donations to the center, as the city has done in providing a parking garage.
The state provided $100 million to build the center, and has continued to support it through the state arts council.
Lawrence P. Goldman, president of the arts center, said in a statement last week that while more than 90 percent of the money raised for the center comes from the private sector, he hoped that "the county executive and the freeholders would be open-minded about continuing the partnership."
Mr. Goldman also said that the arts center had stimulated the economy by increasing property values and investment in the county.
 LYDIA POLGREEN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BONDS (71%); PRISONS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%); 

PERSON: JAMES W TREFFINGER (91%); LAWRENCE P GOLDMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



408 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Answer to a Question About Transit Concierge

 BODY:

To the Editor:
We were pleased to read about the success of the concierge service at the Maplewood train station in your section ("Finding Themselves, And Their Niche, In the Marketplace," cover, Dec. 19.)
In response to the author, George James, wondering where the concierge concept originated: We came up with the idea when we were working with New Jersey Transit on their Station Renewal Program. The object was to rejuvenate transit stations and the public spaces around them as a catalyst for community revitalization. The concierge service resulted from the need to provide services for riders at stations with low use. It also provided an opportunity to involve and help build business while at the same time attracting ridership. It looks as though it worked. 
 The New Jersey Transit Station Renewal Program has grown into the New Jersey Transit Model Stations and Shelters Program, with more than 50 bus and train facilities targeted for development.
 
KATHLEEN MADDEN
New York, N.Y.
 
The writer is vice president of Project for Public Spaces. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT MODEL (90%); PROJECT FOR PUBLIC SPACES (55%); PROJECT FOR PUBLIC SPACES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROJECT FOR PUBLIC SPACES (55%); PROJECT FOR PUBLIC SPACES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); WRITERS (88%); TRAINS (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



409 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Quiz Shows Make Every Contestant A Video Gladiator

BYLINE: By JULIA CHAPLIN

 BODY:
WHEN David Karraker, a computer games fanatic who works for the Sega company in San Francisco, first tuned in to "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" and "Greed" last fall, what he noticed right away was how similar they were to some of his favorite video games.
"Millionaire," the blockbuster quiz show that revived ABC, had a circular glass stage raked by beams of light, while the host, Regis Philbin, perched face to face with a single contestant surrounded by a black void, like the gladiatorial arenas in games like Virtua Fighter. 
 "Greed," the me-too entry from Fox with a more sinister tone, featured a set painted to look like stone blocks, reminiscent of the torch-lighted medieval castles in games like Doom and Soul Calibur.
And when Mr. Philbin intoned his Yoda-like line, "Are you confident that's your final answer?" -- suggesting a warrior guru, a stock figure in fantasy games -- the case was sealed for Mr. Karraker.
"I was shocked," said Mr. Karraker, 31, whose Sega job is in public relations. "Here was this fluffy, friendly person like Regis hosting a show with extremely dark undercurrents that was very similar to the video games I play. I thought, 'This is stranger than anything I've seen on network TV before.' "
What he and other viewers who were raised on video games and science fiction movies are noticing is how much new television game show sets resemble computer games and special effects from films like "Star Wars" and "The Matrix" and futuristic music videos like TLC's "No Scrubs." The look of interactive computer games has come to that stodgiest of television formats, the quiz show, and with it has come an unexpected mirror of the anxiety felt by many Americans over computer technology.
As no television viewer can have escaped noticing (try though one might), the programming phenomenon of last fall, when "Millionaire" ran 18 consecutive nights, has spread to the other leading networks. Quiz shows consume more hours of weekly prime time -- six and a half -- than at any point since the 1950's. They have also spread to cable, where MTV's version, "webRIOT," allows viewers to participate via the Internet.
"Winning Lines," the latest network entry, which made its debut on CBS last weekend, has a look and format described by Ron Pearson, a comedian warming up the audience, as "the Jetsons on acid." Now, any game show with so much as a visible microphone seems as archaic as an eight-track cassette.
"Action films with special effects and home video games like Sony's Playstation have definitely influenced the look of these new game shows," said Michael Davies, the executive producer of "Millionaire," which now runs three nights a week. "Whole generations of people have grown up playing video games. The last thing you want on prime time is something that looks outdated."
Game show staples from the "Jeopardy!" era, like catchy theme songs and circus lights, are as passe as yesterday's fashions. The new game show staging calls for music throughout the show, beating like a heart when danger lurks and crescendoing for victory; black backgrounds that resemble a galactic void; graphics that lie atop one another as in a Windows computer program; and cockpitlike chairs in front of computer screens.
The ageless Dick Clark, who is now the host of "Winning Lines," which airs on Saturday nights, sounded amazed as he explored his latest domain. "Have you ever seen a set like that?" he asked the audience in a pilot episode of the show. "It's going to be launched into outer space later on."
The producers of "Winning Lines," a British import, like "Millionaire," aimed to recreate the feel of an arcade video game, particularly during the hectic final minutes, when a player must defeat the Wonderwall to win as much as $1 million. Sitting in a black seat modeled after a video arcade chair, the contestant holds a kind of joystick and maneuvers among three huge video screens, shouting out the answers to questions in a race against time.
Andy Walmsley, 33, the English set designer responsible for both "Millionaire" and "Winning Lines," said he was surprised when he took a tour of the sets of "Jeopardy!" and "Wheel of Fortune" while in Los Angeles recently, because they were so out of date. "They were still using video walls made out of plain glass TV screens, instead of the flat plasma screens," he said. "It was so 80's-looking."
Throughout their history, game shows have held up a mirror to the times. In the 50's, the set of "What's My Line" mimicked a cozy suburban parlor, complete with seating area and pleated drapes. Other shows spoke of the newness of television itself by mimicking radio conventions like "On the Air" signs and isolation booths. The most infamous of these shows, "Twenty-One," which precipitated a scandal over rigged questions, has just been revived by NBC. Many elements of its vintage set remain intact, including the isolation booths. (It is the only one of the new batch of prime-time game shows not notably influenced by video games.)
In the late 60's and early 70's, psychedelia arrived on the sets of shows like "The Dating Game," with its bubble-shape lettering and big plastic daisies. After the 70's, game-show ratings were poor, and the no-frills set of "Tic Tac Dough" reflected the lower budgets.
But then came "Millionaire," with its nerve-rattling music, eerie blue lighting and space age metallic set. "The set and format is a look toward the next platform of programming, which is a converged medium between the TV, telephone and the computer," Mr. Davies, its producer, said.
"Millionaire" embraces high-tech effects to heighten the drama, which the new shows have emphasized over the mere answering of questions. The show is shot almost entirely in close-ups. "When the contestants first walk out on the set, they're terrified about falling through the glass floor or making too much noise with their shoes on the metal," Mr. Davies said. "They never feel that comfortable, and here they are, ordinary people in a new city, across from Regis Philbin, having to make the most important decision of their lives."
Jimmy Cuomo, the designer of "Greed," noted that the overtones of science fiction incorporated in his set, which was inspired in part by the Starship Enterprise from "Star Trek" and by the castle settings familiar from video combat games, contribute to a sinister atmosphere.
"Computer technology does represent a level of anxiety to the middle generation," he said. "It's like, 'Do you really want your credit card number out there in this void where people can steal it?' There is a scary element. So computers and technology, or at least the symbolism of them, can heighten the tension that's part of the appeal."
By contrast, MTV's game, "webRIOT," which is pitched to a younger audience, 12- to 24-year-olds, imparts a different vision of technology. The colorful set was described by its producer, David Salles, as having the "user-friendly optimism of iMacs and VW Bugs, rather than the foreboding hacker look of 'Millionaire' and 'Greed.' "
"Our viewers don't have those same kinds of dark issues with computers," Mr. Salles said.
The four contestants on "WebRIOT," shown daily at 4:30 p.m., are suspended in cartoonishly round pods and are referred to by their screen names (as in, "Vid-kitten, what's the answer?"). The zany host, bullet-headed Ahmet Zappa, speaks remotely via a video screen, which enlarges his image to four times life size. The audience, projected onto multiple screens, is also virtual. The show goes further than any of the others in marrying life in front of a computer screen to a television game show.
"The concept for the show was that everyone lives in their own private suspended reality now," said Brian Graden, MTV's head of programming. "You don't have conversations with people in the same room. You communicate with people behind a screen via the Internet. Players of computer games like Quake and Doom relate to each other in an abstract space, and we want these kids to feel like MTV is an extension of their community, much like the game worlds."
Which vision of computer technology, sunny or dark, exerts the more powerful psychic hold on viewers just now? In a week in which America Online, Pac Manlike, swallowed Time Warner Mr. Karraker of Sega made a case for the grimmer version, a view of everyday life as mortal combat.
"We're in this booming economy right now, where everyone is reaching for that brass ring," he said. "People read these articles about kids making millions in I.P.O.'s. They're asking themselves, 'How do I get in on an Internet start-up?' There's a desperate need to catch up, to have millions, and it's made us more battle-oriented."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Greed," the new game show on Fox, has a set reminiscent of the torch-lighted medieval castles of some video games. (Larry Watson/Fox); In "webRIOT" on MTV, the sets strive for the user-friendly optimism of iMacs and VW Bugs. (Janet Van Ham/MTV); A contestant on "Winning Lines" on CBS maneuvers among video screens, shouting out answers in a race against time. (Cliff Lipson/CBS); A scene from Soul Caliber, one of the video games whose foreboding spirit pervades the new wave of television game shows. (Sega)(pg. 1); The pared-down set of "Tic Tac Dough," left from the dark night of quiz shows in the 80's. Below, "Jeopardy!" in 1964, with Art Fleming as host. (Fred Wostbrock "Jeopardy!" ; Photofest "Tic Tac Dough" ); The psychedelic set of "The Dating Game" in the pre-computer-game 60's, with Jim Lange, the host, at left. (Fred Wostbrock)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SEGA CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPUTER GAMES (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (72%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (69%); MUSIC (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



410 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
As the Good Times Roll, The Marxists Are Mellowing

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
IT is remarkable how a booming economy flattens ideology in this post-cold-war era. The good times in America have many economists rewriting their views, and none more so than those who see the world through Marxist eyes. Only the final outcome -- the Day of Reckoning -- sets the Marxists clearly apart from mainstream economics. And the Day of Reckoning has been postponed.
No one expected the current economic expansion, which started in 1991, to last so long. Certainly not the Marxists, who hold that too much of the national income has gone to corporate profits in the 1990's and not enough to labor, a painful imbalance that cannot be sustained indefinitely. Now that view is being edited. A rising tide that keeps on rising quiets a lot of people. 
 "If the expansion continues another three to five years," said Ismael Hossein-Zadeh, a Marxist economist at Drake University in Des Moines, "the trickle-down effect is bound to be seen increasingly in wages." That raises the possibility, he said, that the workers, instead of protesting, could get "sucked into" the good times.
Few mainstream economists -- or mainstream politicians -- would disagree. Democratic and Republican economic policies count on this happening. The Marxists differ mainly in degree. They do not believe that companies competing for labor in an expanding economy will raise incomes enough; they want government intervention to make income distribution more equal.
They mention measures like a higher minimum wage or laws that strengthen unions, policies that many non-Marxists also favor. But for the moment, government intervention gets soft-pedaled almost everywhere in economics.
HAVING been wrong so often about when the expansion would end, economists of all stripes are self-consciously covering all the bases. Plausibility seems to require no less when so many Americans respond to pollsters by saying that they see no setbacks coming. So Anthony Gabb, a Marxist economist at St. John's University in Queens, offers a forecast acceptable today even on Wall Street.
"If this expansion continues for 5 to 10 years, I would not be surprised one bit," he said. "But by the same token, if the economy went into recession soon, I would not be surprised either."
The long-running expansion came up often at the annual meetings here last weekend of the American Economic Association and various other social science groups. To most of the economists, the expansion reflects a well-functioning free market and some good luck. For the Marxists, the expansion is an anomaly requiring explanations. Their organization, the Union for Radical Political Economists, offered the only session devoted entirely to "The U.S. Expansion and What Comes Next."
Mainstream economists see the expansion as a phenomenon that can continue indefinitely, until some outside shock or policy mistake provokes a recession. A stock market sell-off could be such a shock, or a financial crisis that frightens lenders, who then stop lending; or the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates too far, or be too slow to lower them in a pinch. The Fed has been blamed for almost every recession since World War II.
The Marxists, in contrast, believe that the expansion contains the seeds of its own undoing. Their latest revisions try to explain why it is not yet undone. Some skate pretty close to mainstream economics.
The expansion, in the Marxist view, is a long upward wave that started in the 80's, when business got the upper hand over labor and profits rose. Stability, investment, technology, rising productivity, deregulation -- all have reinforced profits, the Marxists explain. And the brief 1990-91 recession did not stop the wave. These are observations heard from mainstream economists, too.
The New Economy enthusiasts, in particular, are finding kindred spirits in a strange place. Or as Mr. Gabb put it, "The system is more resilient than we may want it to be."
Still, the undoing will come in the struggle to consume all the output. Wages are rising, the Marxists acknowledge, but not fast enough. So people borrow, helped by the strong stock market, and credit flows in from abroad. Rising debt loads are part of any expansion, but this one is getting to the point that people are borrowing more just to make payments on existing debt. A shock to this fragile structure would bring it down.
That is farther than most mainstream economists will go. They, too, worry about debt, but without a Marxist's pessimism. The mainstreamers generally hold that policy can save the day. The Fed, for example, can defuse a debt crisis by quickly lowering rates, a move that would preserve the expansion and reassure workers.
Marxists doubt that it would be so easy. Much of labor's "passive acceptance," said Fred Moseley, a Marxist economist at Mount Holyoke College, in a recent paper, "has been based on the optimistic premise that the years of 'pain' will soon be over and the U.S. economy will soon return to the more prosperous conditions of the postwar period, with its steady and substantial increases in real wages. Continued stagnation, or worse, would invalidate this premise; perhaps then acceptance will turn into resistance."
Perhaps. But for now, wages are rising. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLD WAR (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY GABB (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



411 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3010 words

HEADLINE: Where the Solos Last Till Dawn;
With Endless Music and Open Jams, Smalls Stands Out Among Jazz Clubs Like a Blue Note in a Major Scale

BYLINE: By ARAM SINNREICH

 BODY:
IT'S 2:30 on a Monday morning, and things are just getting under way. A jazz quintet is playing up in front of the small subterranean room, which is filled nearly to capacity. Candlelight reflects from the decorations on the wall: dim photographs of jazz legends from days gone by, odd sections of brass instruments oxidized by years of smoky air. Seated around small round tables or on padded benches along the wall, people bob in time to the music, smiling and humming between sips of beer.
No clear line divides performance from audience. Instead of playing on a stage, the musicians squeeze into a tiny area cleared around the beat-up baby grand piano. Even the band has blurry boundaries; halfway through a song, the tenor sax player hands his instrument to a man sitting on the sidelines. The man takes a solo without leaving his seat, then hands the sax back to his friend, who finishes the song with a reprise of the melody. 
 This is the eighth consecutive hour of music, and the fourth band. When the final set ends around 3:30 a.m., the last barrier between band and audience will fall. There will be an open jam session, and all comers are welcome to test their jazz mettle in public. The jam will continue until the music peters out or until dawn, whichever comes first. When the session finally ends, 12 straight hours of music will come to a close.
It is a marathon at most clubs, but just another night at Smalls.
In an age and a city where jazz is increasingly considered the realm of the elite, a quaint relic of a bygone era best preserved in the rarefied air of Lincoln Center or near-museums like Birdland and played only by a handful of revered masters and their humble acolytes, Smalls stands out like a blue note in a major scale. Few famous names grace its roster, and most of the players are under 30. And in the wee hours of a weekday night, when the band is hot and the air is full of smoke and sweat, the atmosphere is anything but rarefied.
If Smalls sounds like a bit of an anachronism, it is alive and real for the musicians who play there. In the five years since the club opened on West 10th Street, a block away from the noise and traffic of Seventh Avenue South, Smalls has become something of an institution among young jazz players and a growing number of jazz fanatics. And although the quality of the music varies from night to night, the club is, in the words of Ehud Asherie, a 20-year-old pianist who is one of the club's denizens, "unique in the whole world."
"There's no other jazz club like it, really," adds Mr. Asherie, who got his start at Smalls as a high school sophomore.
It is paradoxical that a club like Smalls should be such a rarity. For more than half a century, New York was the crucible where jazz was forged. Like an alloy of the city's many cultures, jazz was continually remolded into something new, thrown back into the furnace before it got a chance to harden. Change was the only constant, and experimentation was the key to change. From Harlem down to Midtown Manhattan and the Village, in clubs like Minton's Playhouse and the Onyx, musicians poured in when their money gigs were over, and then the real music would begin.
Mainstream acceptance of jazz contributed to the decline of this tradition. As musicians flocked to university jazz programs and audiences to upscale venues, most jam sessions were relegated to the status of amateur night.
Smalls turns this equation on its head. While no other club in New York City today offers the sheer volume of scheduled music Smalls does, it also far exceeds other jazz clubs in the amount of time dedicated to jam sessions. The four or five hours of music available at the more famous jazz spots in the neighborhood, like Sweet Basil and the Village Vanguard, pale in comparison to Smalls' all-nighters. While more established clubs often charge upward of $25 for an hourlong set, Smalls charges a flat fee for a night of music: $10. And while weekly jam sessions are virtually a given at jazz clubs of any size, only Smalls allows its guests to bring their instruments and play seven nights a week.
THE scores of young jazz fans who line up around the block on a chilly Friday night to get into Smalls probably aren't thinking about a dying New York tradition. But they do sense an aura of history about the club that belies its tender age.
"It's like the musicians are still here in spirit," says Amelie Develay, a slight, waifish-looking brunette who moved to New York from France last spring, as she scans the images of jazz greats enshrined on the wall. For Ms. Develay, 24, a freelance journalist, it's her first visit to Smalls, and she's entranced by the dinginess. "It's nice because it's not a clean place," she says.
One table away, Phil Cappello, 22, a television reporter for RNN, a cable news network that serves the New York area, sits nursing a beer. "This place has a pretty rich history," says Mr. Cappello, who has been a regular at Smalls since the club opened on the site of Lenny's Hideaway, a legendary gay bar from the 50's. And there's something else he likes. "It doesn't seem to be gouging you at the door."
It isn't surprising that a venue devoted to experimentation should draw a young crowd. The low cover charge, relaxed atmosphere and late sets help as well. But its youth appeal might have a simpler reason: there's no age limit. While Smalls is equipped with a bar, the only beverages served are water, iced tea, lemonade and coffee. Guests may bring drinks of their own, and by the end of the night, beer bottles cover most of the horizontal surfaces.
Still, if the customers are younger than the demographic most jazz clubs try to court, that's only half the story. Smalls is also "really unique in that it caters to the young jazz musicians," says Neal Miner, 29, a tall bassist who has been leading a quartet at the club for more than a year.
"Smalls is definitely kind of a school," Mr. Miner says. At this school, aspiring musicians can take their first steps as public performers, band members and, ultimately, bandleaders. Mr. Miner, who gained most of his early experience before Smalls existed, no longer puts in the kind of time that the younger and less experienced players do. "I can't say I hang out there," he says, "like some of the people who live there, practically."
Ehud Asherie, 10 years younger than Mr. Miner and just beginning his career as a bandleader, is one of those who consider Smalls their home away from home. A quiet, confident young man with a handsome face and a keen stare, he still winces when discussing his first night playing piano at Smalls five years ago. The band was playing "Confirmation" by Charlie Parker. When the guitarist took his solo, Mr. Asherie continued to comp -- to play the chords of the song as an accompaniment -- as he had during the original statement of the melody. The guitarist, an older Smalls regular named Sol Rubin, got upset and started yelling at the uncomprehending Mr. Asherie to stroll, jazz jargon for "stop playing while I solo."
"Finally, I got it," Mr. Asherie says. "I was very embarrassed, but, you know, I learned from it. Besides learning the jazz vocabulary, I learned musical etiquette."
Smalls is not simply a kind of music school. It also has elements of a finishing school. It gives aspiring musicians a place to meet older and more experienced players, to absorb jazz culture and history as they work on their technique.
Mr. Miner says he has developed something of a mentor relationship with Mr. Asherie since the two met about 18 months ago on a Sunday night at Smalls.
"I taught him a lot of tunes," Mr. Miner says proudly. "He's very talented and works very hard."
This kind of camaraderie is the product of a deliberate effort by the club's owner, Mitch Borden. Despite the studied casual aura he and his club project, it is clear that he is fanatical about his vision of a musician-friendly jazz club, which he says is the key to keeping the music alive.
"There are not too many places like that you can go," he says, pausing as if to search for other examples. "In fact, I think there are none."
Mr. Borden, an impish, balding man of 42, had no experience as an impresario when he opened his club. His father, Herbert Gordon, was a painter who, coincidentally, had a studio on West Ninth Street, a quick stroll from what later became his son's club. Mr. Borden, who was born in Neptune, N.J., remembers family jam sessions with his parents; both father and son played the mandolin. Although the younger Mr. Borden initially worked as a nurse, opening Smalls was not so much a departure for him as a return to the musical foundations of his family. A cousin, Mark Sanders, played conga with Gato Barbieri and Nat Adderley, who died this month, and Mark's father, Morty Sanders, started the Latin jazz jams in Central Park.
Although Smalls was named after the legendary Small's Paradise in Harlem, Mr. Borden sees his club as more akin to the Village Gate, a longstanding jazz venue and late-night "hang" that closed its doors in 1994 after 36 years.
"There needs to be a Smalls," he says. "There was a Smalls. It was called the Village Gate."
By Mr. Borden's account, Smalls is more a pot of trouble than a pot of gold. Altogether, he says, his monthly expenses include $4,000 in rent, $1,300 in rental fees for a Steinway grand piano, $1,200 in utilities, $700 in sales tax on the door charge, $400 in insurance, $200 in music licensing fees and $1,300 in salary to himself, for a total of nearly $10,000. Until recently, he paid an average of $700 a night in musicians' fees, for a monthly total of $20,000; musicians who jam are not paid. Because of a legal problem involving the United States Department of Labor, to which Mr. Borden has paid $7,000 for failure to provide workers' compensation and unemployment insurance for his performers, he will not discuss any current arrangements with musicians.
Because Smalls doesn't sell food or drinks, Mr. Borden's sources of income are not as numerous as his expenses. The only revenue from customers is the $10 door charge, which he waives before 9 p.m. on weekends and is lax about enforcing in general. With a maximum legal capacity of only 48, he says, total income from the door amounts to about $25,000 a month.
Mr. Borden says he subsidized Smalls during its early years with money from a thrice-mortgaged house that he owns in Ocean Grove, N.J. (He lives on Carmine Street, with his wife, Sharon, and their two children, 12 and 15.) Now, he says, the place is picking up in popularity and beginning to pay for itself. The low overhead helps. There is no liquor license to renew and no staff to pay. Mr. Borden is bouncer and busboy, barker and barkeep.
"He's hung in there all the time," Mr. Miner says with a tinge of awe. "It's not like he has people doing all the stuff for him. He does it all himself."
Mr. Miner is not alone in his adulation. Most of the musicians who play at the club seem similarly awed by Mr. Borden. Mr. Asherie calls him "a saint" for his dedication to younger musicians. "He's the best thing that's happened to the jazz community," he says. "He started a scene."
Perhaps the only role Mr. Borden shirks is that of M.C., a task he leaves largely to the musicians themselves. Unlike more visible jazz club owners like the Knitting Factory's ubiquitous Michael Dorf, Mr. Borden seems to shrink from publicity. He is loath to talk about himself, and when pressed recently, he mumbled only that he was in no way special before walking away.
Running even a modest club like Smalls is hardly without its problems, and Mr. Borden has had more than his share.
In addition to being in trouble with the Department of Labor, he has run afoul of the city's Health Department. Last week, Mr. Borden appeared in court in connection with $2,000 in fines levied by the agency for infractions like smoking in the bathrooms. He is contesting the charges.
The city's Landmarks Preservation Commission has taken action against Mr. Borden repeatedly in connection with changes he made to his building, which is an official city landmark. He has already removed an advertising marquee from the facade, and the commission has said he will be fined if he fails to remove his awning and security gate.
There are also private lawsuits pending. Mr. Borden is facing lawsuits by customers who have fallen on the steep stairs of his basement club. He is seeking a more accessible space.
Mr. Borden has neither a lawyer nor an accountant to help him navigate these choppy waters ("Do you know how much lawyers cost?" he asks), but he says his troubles have been a learning experience.
"Some of my problems are from my own folly," he says. "If I had the chance to open up another club, I'd do things differently."
Some of the patrons at Smalls probably do not realize that the diminutive man with the shaved head and the fez clearing the bottles off their tables or taking their money at the door is the proprietor. Out in front of the club, far from the spotlights, such as they are, noodling on his violin and chatting with the regulars, he seems more like an adjunct to the scene, one of the eccentrics at the margins of the club rather than the force at its center.
Mr. Borden seems not only aware but also downright delighted by the dubious impression he often makes on his clientele. "They always think, 'Oh, no,' " he says with a chuckle, " 'I just gave $20 to some homeless guy.' "
THE quality of playing at Smalls, especially at the jam sessions, is hit or miss. Because all are welcome to play at the jams, there is no quality-control mechanism to ensure that a musician who takes the stage knows the first thing about jazz, or about playing an instrument. While the result can be interesting from an anthropological perspective, it's not always a pleasant musical experience for either the listeners or the more experienced musicians.
"I don't really play the jam anymore because it can be kind of a disaster," Mr. Miner says. "And it's a lot of work. The level of talent is a lot lower than playing a gig. You don't really enjoy it after a while."
The audience at Smalls usually responds to unskilled players politely, with a few seconds of encouraging applause. But the off-duty regular musicians, congregating at the bar or in the back between the entrance and the door to the kitchen, can be brutal.
One Saturday morning around 4:30, the jam is not jelling. Kenji Rabson, the house bassist, is manning the piano. Everyone else on stage is an unpaid musician. The band launches into a loose interpretation of the Herbie Hancock standard "Footprints," a jam session favorite because of its simple structure and malleable rhythm.
A young vocalist is rapping and scatting over the chord changes. The bass player is struggling to match his groove to the older and steadier drummer. The trumpet player clearly doesn't know the song very well, so the regular musicians at the back of the club start singing his part to him in mocking, nasal voices.
When the bass player takes his solo, the heckling intensifies, and he completely falls apart. "Why don't you footprints on out of here?" one musician shouts. The bassist panics, losing all semblance of rhythm. He seems to be forcing his fingers to move, playing any note he can until finally the solo section is over, and the reprise of the melody ends the song.
As soon as it's done, he gives the bass to another player and heads up the stairs onto the street, averting his eyes as he passes his tormenters. Outside, the sun is coming up. The bassist stands on the sidewalk, breathing deeply. His name is Richard Hill, he is 21, and he has just moved to the city from Philadelphia. He says he has been playing the bass professionally since he was 16 and has played with notable jazz bands, like the Sun Ra Arkestra. But he admits that sometimes he has a hard time at jam sessions.
"I've had cats come to me after like, 'Do you know the tune?' " he says. "I'm still working. I'm still developing."
The vocalist from "Footprints" emerges from the club and approaches him. "You sound good, man," he says. "Don't kill yourself too much." He gives Mr. Hill his number and asks him when he's free to play some gigs. "Call me, man," he says. "I'm serious. I need some bass players."
The bassist smiles. "All right," he replies. "I will."
SUCH experiences are common at Smalls' jam sessions. "Because it's an open forum, musically sometimes it can just be a complete disaster," says Karl Welz, the tenor sax player in Mr. Asherie's band. "People will just make fun of whoever is out there. But the regular musicians are there all the time, so it's just like someone going into your house and doing something. I think it's always been that way. It can either make them quit or try to change and get better."
Mr. Welz says he feels uncomfortable judging other musicians' techniques. "If they're young and seem nice, I wouldn't do that," he says. "But if you're going to get up and play in front of people, you have to be ready for the response."
For those, like Mr. Asherie, who manage to live through their baby steps at Smalls' jam sessions, the club can take them giant steps closer to a career in jazz. Mr. Borden gives promising young players the chance to headline, an opportunity reserved for established recording artists at most clubs.
But it takes time and dedication. According to Mr. Welz, Mr. Asherie's devotion to music has made him "a zombie," with such persistence that failure is not an option.
"He's there every night," Mr. Welz says. "And he finally convinced Mitch to give him Sunday late night" to lead his own ensemble about a year ago.
From Mr. Asherie's perspective, the opportunity to headline at a jazz club at the age of 20 is the result of providence, not persistence. After all, where would he be if it weren't for Smalls?
"I have no idea," he says with a shrug. "Thank God for Mitchell Borden."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mitch Borden is fanatical about his vision of a musician-friendly club. A photo of a young Louis Armstrong is at rear. The Village Vanguard: Ralph LaLama on alto sax with the Vanguard's house band. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "CHORD PROGRESSIONS -- From Cotton Club to Knitting Factory"
If New Orleans was the birthplace of jazz, New York is where the music matured. From the Jazz Age to the present, no other city has offered such a large or varied roster of venues or matched its reputation as a font of musical innovation. Here are a few standouts among the hundreds of the city's clubs.
 
The Cotton Club
 
The Cotton Club was home to big bands such as Duke Ellington's and Cab Calloway's during Harlem's halcyon days. When Harlem started to decline in the mid-30's, the Cotton Club relocated to midtown, where it finally closed in 1940.
 
Dan Wall's Chili House
 
It was at a jam session in this otherwise unremarkable Harlem eatery in 1939 that, Charlie Parker later claimed, he first conceived of be-bop harmony. His musical companion was a guitarist named Biddy Fleet, and the song was Cherokee, a tune by Ray Noble which became a staple of Parker's repertoire and a symbol of the be-bop revolution.
 
Minton's Playhouse
 
Perhaps the most famous jam session spot in New York history, Minton's was a Harlem club where serious jazz musicians would come to play and innovate after their money gigs. The house band included such luminaries as Thelonius Monk and Kenny Clarke.
 
The Onyx Club
 
A midtown speakeasy which became one of the top jazz clubs on 52nd Street in its heyday. During Prohibition, the password was "I'm from 802," a reference to the local chapter of the musicians' union. When Harlem musicians started bringing be-bop to a larger audience, the Onyx was one of the first clubs to embrace it.
 
The Savoy Ballroom
 
A major Harlem institution for big band jazz music during the swing era. Due to its nationally syndicated radio broadcasts and large, upscale audiences, the Savoy was known as more than just a club; it was a steppingstone to fame.
 
The Royal Roost
 
A former chicken restaurant on Broadway in the theater district, the Royal Roost began presenting jazz in 1948. The impresario Symphony Sid would broadcast from the club on Tuesday nights, giving musicians like Miles Davis, Charlie Parker and Dexter Gordon national exposure. The Royal Roost also had a non-drinking section for younger audiences.
 
Birdland
 
Originally a midtown jazz club named the Clique, Birdland was reopened and renamed in honor of Charlie "Bird" Parker in 1949. Sadly, before Parker died in 1955, his heroin addiction and consequently erratic behavior would cause him to be banned from the club. Birdland still exists, though it has relocated twice in the intervening years -- first up to 106th Street, then back to midtown.%%Peter: parker's wife is very sick or may have died last week and i think she owned the club. can you check? c%%
 
Studio Rivbea
 
Founded by the reed player Sam Rivers, Studio Rivbea on Bond Street was one of the main sites of the "jazz loft" era. During the 60's and 70's, some of New York's most prominent jazz musicians would open their own venues (sometimes their own apartments) for performances so that music could be free of commercial pressures.
 
The Village Vanguard
 
When the Village Vanguard opened in 1935, it was the first integrated club below 14th Street. Since then, it has played host to an extraordinary number of jazz legends and been the site of over a hundred live recordings by artists such as John Coltrane, Bill Evans and Wynton Marsalis. The club is still run by Lorraine Gordon, the widow of the founder Max Gordon, who died in 1989.
 
The Village Gate
 
During its 36 years on the corner of Bleecker and Thompson Streets, the Village Gate was a cultural landmark, featuring both new and established acts from the worlds of jazz and folk. In 1994, financial troubles forced the owner, Art D'Lugoff, to close up shop and move to midtown, where his club flickered and died after less than a year.
 
The Blue Note
 
Opened in 1981, the Blue Note is the epitome of the modern, upscale jazz club. This Greenwich Village institution generally features only big-name artists and has become a jazz marketing powerhouse to boot, with franchises around the globe. The Blue Note does host jam sessions, however, on Friday and Saturday nights from the end of the last set until 4 a.m.
 
The Knitting Factory
 
Founded in 1987 as an alternative to New York's more mainstream jazz venues, the Knitting Factory has paradoxically become one of the strongest forces in determining the course of new music in the city. In 1994 the club moved from its humble beginnings on Houston Street to a larger, more commodious location on Leonard Street in TriBeCa. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JAZZ & BLUES (93%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



412 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
Trade Shows Without Borders

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month.
E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TO Peter Nathan, the word "no" is merely a request for more information. In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Nathan, a trade show impresario, arm-wrestled Soviet and Chinese apparatchiks into allowing him past their frontiers to produce a variety of Western industry shows. This week, he will preside over the five-day U.S. Healthcare Exhibition -- the first American trade expo in Cuba in more than 40 years.
Undaunted by the trade embargo against Cuba (which does not include medical supplies) and the tug-of-war over Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old survivor of a shipwreck, Mr. Nathan is convinced that now is the time to open up the Cuban market. 
 Still, producing a trade show in such an environment requires someone special, said Steven Hacker, president of the International Association for Exposition Management in Dallas, who called Mr. Nathan "the Green Beret of international exhibitors."
As such, Mr. Nathan, 66, demonstrates that the advantages, and the risks, of being an early mover extend far beyond the technology world. With his forays into untested markets, Mr. Nathan is trying to go where even major multinationals often stumble.
Is the payoff worth it?
"Definitely," he said. "The authorities from those countries are pleased when someone takes an interest in their country, and so, going forward, you have the ear of the right people."
With Cuba, he figured that the humanitarian benefits of medical equipment and pharmaceuticals would make the trade fair an easier sell to both governments. While it took three years to get Washington's approval, said John S. Kavulich II, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council in New York, Havana approved in 10 days.
"It's absolutely incredible what he's accomplished," Mr. Kavulich said. "Anyone else would have given up after getting turned down so many times."
Last year, Mr. Kavulich told Mr. Nathan that he should consider his show a success if only 10 exhibitors showed up. As of last week, Mr. Nathan's company, PWN Exhibicon International L.L.C. of Westport, Conn., had signed more than 100. The principal sponsor is Archer Daniels Midland; other exhibitors include Eli Lilly, Medtronic, Hewlett-Packard and Eastman Kodak.
Mr. Nathan relishes breaking into new territory. In 1971, long before glasnost, he organized the first American industrial machinery show in Russia, overcoming currency and language barriers, shipping catastrophes and "unfathomable amounts of red tape." But dealing with Moscow became much easier, and other successful shows followed.
To make it in the business, "you have to be a professional, round-the-clock problem solver," he said. He has seen many such problems -- waking up to blizzards and an exhibit hall fire, and giving up many a night's sleep in union confrontations.
WHY put on shows in markets like Cuba? "The short answer is the Mount Everest one," Mr. Nathan said. "It's the challenge."
Fortunately, his wife of 45 years, Sandy, enjoys the challenge, too. She will be working as an on-site administrator in Havana.
Mr. Nathan arrived on these shores in 1937 as a 4-year old German-Jewish immigrant; his family had fled the Nazis. He received a bachelor's degree in life sciences from the University of Connecticut in 1954. While waiting to start at the Marine Corps officers school, Mr. Nathan took a temporary job as an office boy at Clapp & Poliak, an exhibition company based in New York.
After two years in the Marines during the Korean War, he returned to the firm, eventually rising to partner. (He stayed with the company until it was sold in 1982.)
In the early 1970's, the federal government hired Clapp & Poliak to organize an air and transportation show at Dulles International Airport outside Washington. That was the start of a long relationship. Two years later, the government persuaded him to run Expo 74, the world's fair in Spokane, Wash., for six months.
President Richard M. Nixon, who was increasingly enmeshed in the Watergate scandal, flew out to open the fair. While being escorted around, Nixon pointed to the walkie-talkie in Mr. Nathan's hand and asked, " 'What's that?' " Mr. Nathan recalled. "I explained it was a two-way radio. Mr. Nixon replied, 'It's not a tape recorder is it? Because I don't like those things.' "
In 1980, Mr. Nathan put on the first two American electronics exhibitions in China. At the first, in Beijing, the booths were overrun by 20,000 Chinese consumers, leading panicky officials to call in security. It wasn't needed. The friendly stampede was simply the result of tremendous interest in American products. As with the first show in Russia, many more exhibitions followed.
Mr. Nathan expects his Cuban odyssey to have a similarly happy ending. The licenses and approvals that he sought for so many years were eventually granted. And the federal departments that stymied Mr. Nathan for three years -- State, Commerce and Treasury -- are now sharing a big booth at the show to encourage future trade.
"We're very enthusiastic about the expo," said Charles S. Shapiro, the director for Cuban Affairs at the State Department. He attributes the turnaround in large part to President Clinton's call last year for more people-to-people contacts with Cuba.
Perhaps the Hollywood version should be called "Mr. Nathan Goes to Havana."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Nathan marked a map for the first American trade show in Cuba in four decades. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (63%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (63%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (63%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (63%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (63%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (63%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (63%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (63%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE TRADE SHOWS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: NATHAN, PETER JOSEPH C PAPA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



413 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
At Graduate Schools, a Great Divide Over E-Business Studies

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
ASK deans and professors at America's leading business schools to weigh in on what has become the hottest controversy in management education, and some decidedly unacademic epithets start flying.
Silly. Crazy. Dishonest. Stupid. 
 At issue is whether the online selling, buying, marketing and distribution of products -- known collectively as e-business -- should be taught as a separate academic subject or as an inseparable part of a general business curriculum? Money, prestige and the ability to attract the most desirable students hang in the balance.
Some deans have chosen separation, creating new majors that have rapidly become among the most popular on campus. Other deans are rolling their eyes at what they see as an empty gimmick and are moving instead to weave e-business into existing majors and courses.
"You're missing the point if you set up a separate program," said Edward A. Snyder, the dean of the University of Virginia's Darden School.
"It seems silly to ghetto-ize it into a course or a string of courses," said Eric J. Johnson, a professor at Columbia Business School.
"It's almost like making it the flavor of the month," added Robert S. Hamada, the dean of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
What do advocates of a separate major make of such attacks?
"Crazy," said Donald Jacobs, the dean of Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management. "It is crazy not to do it separately." Success on the Internet calls for a very different way of thinking than managers in traditional businesses are trained for, he said.
The alternative approach is too slow, said Patrick T. Harker, interim dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Integrating e-business throughout a curriculum "doesn't happen overnight," he said, "and anybody who says it does is not telling the truth."
Is that all, gentlemen? Not quite yet.
"It does happen overnight," responded Professor Johnson, who taught at Wharton with Professor Harker until this fall. "It has happened overnight in the real world. Business schools are trying to catch up."
INDEED, all the schools are devoting vast resources to writing new case studies about the Internet, overhauling existing courses to reflect the changes it has caused, and using online material to supplement lectures. Deans of schools on both sides of the divide say corporate recruiters will snap up M.B.A.'s who seem to understand how the World Wide Web is changing the economy. And prospective students will shun any school they see as lagging behind the Internet revolution.
But the deans part company on how best to stay abreast. "They are very different paths that the schools have taken," said Cathy Baker, the vice president in charge of recruiting at Mercer Management Consulting, which hires about 90 M.B.A.'s a year.
The debate mirrors one raging in the bricks-and-mortar economy. Some companies, like General Electric, have directed managers in every department to rethink their business with the Internet in mind, while others have set up separate Web divisions meant to stay free of corporate bureaucracy.
At separate-major schools like Wharton, Northwestern, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and New York University, professors say they are able to study e-business intensively and to spread its lessons to other departments.
Northwestern is typical. Last spring, a committee appointed by the dean found that its proliferating e-business offerings were too haphazard and were leaving some gaps. So the school brought the faculty together to fill out its course roster, eliminate overlap and inaugurate a major in technology and e-commerce last fall.
After a first year of core subjects, students in the program take a survey course, then choose 3 of 16 electives ranging from data mining, a new class taught by an engineering professor, to the evolution of Silicon Valley, a class that includes a 10-day California trip to meet with dozens of chief executives.
At Cornell University, business school students are given the option of spending one semester studying nothing but e-commerce.
Several schools have set up research centers along with new majors, including M.I.T., whose Center for eBusiness draws faculty from the business school and from media and computer science laboratories.
Carrie Oliver, 28, is in her second year at Vanderbilt University's business school, which in 1995 became the first major school to offer such an e-business program. After working for Sanford C. Bernstein, an investment firm in New York, she wanted to concentrate on studying Internet commerce and applied only to Vanderbilt, she said. About 90 percent of her elective courses have been inside the major.
"Recruiters can't get enough of us," she said of her class of e-business majors. She credits the e-business label and the specialized course work with helping her land job offers from Deloitte & Touche, Nortel Networks and a small Internet start-up.
FACULTY members at other leading schools, like those at Chicago, Columbia and Dartmouth, are skeptical. Often, they say, the creation of an e-business major is little more than a marketing exercise, rearranging existing classes under a new heading.
"It's easy to raise money" for programs labeled "e-business," Prof. Hamada of Chicago said, noting that dot-com millionaire alumni are often willing to donate to them.
The skeptical schools are using other strategies to make their programs Internet-aware. The University of Virginia's Charlottesville campus was host to 1,000 PricewaterhouseCoopers partners for three-day sessions last summer and fall to discuss and study the Internet. The school then rewrote parts of its first-year M.B.A. curriculum to reflect what it learned from the consultants, Mr. Snyder said.
Columbia, which recruited Prof. Johnson from Wharton last year, has revamped syllabuses for 30 courses and created seven new ones with heavy Internet emphasis in marketing, finance and other departments.
These schools also know they must work harder to broadcast the weight they give the Internet. Dr. Hamada says he has instructed his recruiting director to tell prospective M.B.A.'s at admissions conferences that e-business is no less important at Chicago than it is at schools with separate majors.
Their job may be easier among corporate recruiters, many of whom put more stock in candidates' intelligence than in course work. "What we're looking for is talent, and not a specific major," Ms. Baker of Mercer said. She said she found the most Internet-oriented M.B.A.'s at Harvard and Stanford, where students do not specialize..
The two sides of the argument agree that the Internet is crucial to the future of business schools, and there is a consensus that the schism will narrow in time, as it did in a similar debate in the 1980's over the wisdom of separate international management concentrations. With globalization now an important theme in most courses, the international majors that still exist are dwindling in popularity.
"In the long run," said Professor Harker, Wharton's interim dean, "it makes no sense to have a separate major" about e-business. "The question is how you get from here to there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert S. Hamada, talking to students at the University of Chicago, left (Jonathan Kirn for The New York Times), opposes offering a separate e-business major. Patrick T. Harker, right, of the Wharton School, favors it. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: OLIVER WYMAN GROUP (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CURRICULA (89%); MANAGER TRAINING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); CASE STUDIES (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



414 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
At the AOL-Time Warner Wedding, Visions of Better and Worse

 BODY:
WHEN the Godzilla of the Internet decides to wed the King Kong of content, it is a natural time for the other denizens of the jungle to wonder what the future will hold for the colossal couple and the world they inhabit.
The question of what America Online and Time Warner see in each other is inseparable from the question of what the Internet landscape will look like in a few years. Will cyberspace be mainly a source of information and entertainment, or an interactive communications medium? Will the crucial asset be a subscriber base, a broadband electronic pipeline or a server full of movies, music and news? Will the primary entrance point be a computer, a television a cellular phone or perhaps a Webcam? 
 Verne G. Kopytoff and Julie Flaherty were assigned by Money & Business to ask Internet seers in business and academia how they saw the online experience evolving over the next five years, and whether last week's announced merger of tree-snapping behemoths advances, retards or misreads those trends. Here are their replies.
 
WILLIAM H. DUTTON -- Professor of communications at the University of Southern California and author of "Society on the Line" (Oxford University Press).
Internet providers don't want to be limited to people who have computers. But to date, efforts to introduce interactive television and other interactive services like video text and video services have all failed.
You have to be skeptical about to how well the Internet model translates to the television set. They're totally different. People who watch television generally are passive and don't interact with it and don't want to. So changing their viewing habits is going to be difficult.
Clearly the Web has been a trigger service that has caused more people to get computers and get online. But there are also other trigger services, like word processing and spreadsheets.
People who see big synergies in the AOL-Time Warner merger are ignoring the fact that electronic mail and communicating with others is why most people use the Internet. Access to information, including entertainment, is not the major reason why people go online.
People will still watch television on television, which will be much like it is today, though in a few years it will have many more links and ties and references to the Internet.
 
GORDON M. TUCKER -- Chief executive of Egreetings Network, an online digital greeting and gift company based in San Francisco.
I believe that the desktop computer will remain the anchor point for people going online. I don't believe that people who are information-centric organize their lives around television.
Television doesn't handle the variety of needs. You want to reduce the number of communications options you are forced to deal with. The problem is that more and more people are getting frustrated with the number of devices they have to manage. Wireless phones and laptops will be there, but as a supplement to computers.
It's all about making it easier and easier for people, and faster and faster. Obviously people today want instant gratification, and mergers like AOL and Time Warner are just going to accelerate the achievement of that goal. In a few years the Internet will be a lot more dynamic, and you'll have the ability to personalize a Web site you visit: it will be possible to present a fundamentally different Web site for you versus everyone else.
In online retailing, global commercial access transforms companies and the way they sell products. Right now it is difficult to sell products internationally, but as the barriers to international trade come down and Web sites address the need of international consumers, you'll have access to anyone in the world.
 
MARIO GERLA -- Professor of computer science at U.C.L.A., now working on developing Internet 2, a high-speed successor to today's Internet.
I see a lot of changes happening. One is wireless access to the Internet. Nowadays, we connect mainly from the home or the office, but we already see a trend of access to the Web from cell phones. Soon a commuter riding to work in a van will be able to video-conference or take a class on a laptop. We will be able to stand in the aisle of one store and see what others are charging. There is definitely the need to access the Internet from anywhere.
All of this raises the question of cost. You may pay a provider for access, but no one is charged for actually using the network, regardless of the traffic. That's all right for now when there isn't that much traffic. But in the future, if everyone is building bigger conferencing and video on demand, you'll just exceed the bandwidth available. That will be resolved by charging people, or by giving free access but having advertising subsidizing the network as an indirect charge.
This is especially true for wireless access. If I'm in the middle of Central Park, I'm sharing the spectrum with a large number of people, so pricing will be the controlling factor.
The other complementary act is that we will have the so-called smart office, and the smart network to appliances in the home, and video cameras in every room that can be accessed from the Internet. You will be able to see what your kids are doing -- that's an extension to the concept of the Web.
As for the AOL-Time Warner merger and the proliferation of entertainment on the Internet, there is a limit to what you can sell. We are already flooded. I don't have any time for that; maybe kids do.
 
MICHAEL L. DERTOUZOS -- Director of the Laboratory for Computer Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of "What Will Be" (HarperBusiness).
I am not surprised by the merger, for it confirms the industrial world's progress toward a powerful information marketplace.
I am surprised, however, by the hyperventilation over "content." Even with interactivity, such uses will only be roughly as big a part of the overall economy as entertainment and news are today -- less than 5 percent. But office work, at 50 percent of the industrial economy, could reach $4 trillion a year online worldwide.
Within five years, 50 million Indians, who read and write English and have office skills, will be ready to sell their information work to us at bargain prices. Interconnected computers will further automate many of the things we now do with our eyes and brains. People will collaborate over time and space wherever they may be. They will be able to retrieve the information they want, rather than infojunk; control their physical environment; and customize goods and services to individual needs.
And, we hope, more people than the privileged 2 percent of the world who are interconnected today will join in. Much more than interactive "content" lies ahead.
 
BOB METCALFE -- Founder of the 3Com Corporation; now a commentator on technology and vice president of the International Data Group, a large publisher of computer-related books, newspapers and magazines, in Boston.
In five years, most Americans will be enjoying broadband Internet from home, maybe 100 times as fast as dial-up modems and always on -- no more waiting for personal computers to power on, boot up, launch browsers, accept dial tone and then dial their screeching modems only to get busy signals from, well, America Offline.
What we'll attach to the always-on, high-speed Internet will be mostly devices other than personal computers. What comes and goes over the broadband Internet will be much less like clicking a computer than like talking on the telephone. And it will be less like talking on the telephone than like watching CNN, reading Time magazine, laughing through Looney Tunes at the movies, hip-hopping with Rampage on Elektra records and exercising with Jane Fonda.
All we have to worry about on the broadband Internet is preserving freedom of choice among competing alternatives. Worry about Big Business taking over the Internet if you want -- AOL Time Warner, Microsoft and the telephone monopolies, for example -- but be sure to keep an eye on Big Government.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael L. Dertouzos of M.I.T. is surprised by the deal's focus on "content."; Bob Metcalfe, 3Com founder, says users will be online all the time, at top speed.; Prof. Mario Gerla sees a wireless age of Sundays in the park -- with the Internet.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL); TIME WARNER INC (TWX) OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%); AOL INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL); TIME WARNER INC (TWX) UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); BROADBAND (77%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); MERGERS (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (69%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



415 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
First Jolts of the Internet Shakeout

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
FOR months, if not years, the virtual has trounced the real in the stock market. Valuations of Internet concerns vastly exceeded the values that investors assigned to companies unlucky enough to own tangible assets. Companies with profit were bounced for those with "eyeballs."
Last week, on the strength of several significant announcements, the tables turned. The real world is back in the ascendant, and investors are about to experience the Great Internet Shakeout. 
 A big indication that the tectonic plates of the virtual world were shifting was the bid of the highflying America Online to acquire the landlocked Time Warner. Then the Charles Schwab Corporation, online broker to the world, said it would acquire U.S. Trust, an investment firm known for asset management services it provides its decidedly blueblood clientele. Schwab appeared to be protecting itself should the online trading boom evaporate.
Another straw in the wind: Wal-Mart Stores announced on Jan. 7 that it was spinning off its Web operations into a dot-com. Wal-Mart is expected to show that brick-and-mortar retailers can beat e-tailers at their own game.
So, even as Alan Greenspan rhapsodized in New York on Thursday about the joys and gains relating to the Internet, that world was starting to undergo wrenching change.
"This week is a bit of a watershed, in which the highflying world of the Internet meets the concrete test of the marketplace," said Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist at the Paribas Corporation, an investment firm in New York. AOL and Schwab were the first. "For the rest of the unreal world, the acid test is to come," he said.
Nevertheless, investors remain extremely optimistic about Internet stocks. The Interactive Week Internet index of 30 stocks closed at 555.27, just 7.7 percent below its record high reached on Jan. 3.
"My general concern is investors are feeling too complacent over the extraordinary gains they got in Internet stocks in 1999," said David Readerman, director of Internet strategy at Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco. "It's not going to be that easy this year. There are going to be some colossal failures."
Jim Breyer, managing partner at Accel Partners, a venture capital firm that is a partner with Wal-Mart.com, believes last week's shift was epic in its significance. "The reckoning is coming soon," he said, adding that second- and third-tier Internet companies are highly vulnerable. Equally threatened are old-economy companies that do not get Web strategies off the ground now.
Investors in the stock market have been very forgiving of Internet companies with big plans but little in financial results. "Public investors have played the role of venture capitalists in these companies," Mr. Breyer said. Now, venture capitalists are getting tough with Internet companies trying to raise money, and individual investors ought to do the same.
Mr. Readerman suspects that the shakeout has begun, noting that in the first half of January, as Wall Street firms held Internet investing conferences, Internet stocks did not perform that well. "If calendar 1999 was one of discovery of the Internet, 2000 is going to be characterized by much more rigorous scrutiny of the business models," he said. "You don't want to be completely out of these stocks, but I'm not averse to taking some profits."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Apogee?" shows the Interactive Week Internet Index, daily closes since Aug. 3, 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (71%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (84%); AOL INC (71%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (52%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); VIRTUAL REALITY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAILERS (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



416 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Lost in Cyberspace;
Whistling Past the New Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa

 BODY:
WHEN America Online and Time Warner announced the biggest merger in history last week, it set off a furious, if predictable, debate that swept through the airwaves, chat rooms and hyperactive financial markets, which couldn't decide if it was a brilliant idea or a marriage made in cyberhell.
Is it good for the country, many asked, for a single media conglomerate that already bestrides the print and cable world to also control America's most popular entrance ramp to the Internet? 
 Will it further widen the technological gap between rich and poor?
What does it mean for America's relations with its allies, who are increasingly uneasy with the nation's dominance of the Net?
And are these matters Washington should wade into, as it did in the Microsoft case, or should they be left to the invisible electronic hand?
All interesting questions -- except out here on the campaign trail. America may be plunging into a new global economy at warp speed, but the major presidential candidates would rather talk about ethanol subsidies than the future of the Internet.
For Republicans and Democrats alike it's Old Economy 101, perhaps because times are so good, perhaps because the politics of the New Economy are far too complex for a slogan, perhaps because even Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, admits events are moving so fast that nobody can truly understand what they mean.
"People don't ask about it much because we've filled up all that empty office space downtown," said Midge Leiter, a 47-year-old Democrat who came to a Rotary meeting in Portsmouth, N.H., on Thursday to hear Gov. George W. Bush. "Health care is the big issue," she said.
It's true that the candidates get a bigger earful on managed care and access to medical insurance than on any other subject. But it's also remarkable how little is said about the huge range of potential political issues raised by the explosion of the digital economy since the last presidential election.
Log on, and you are barraged with arguments about the privacy of electronic records, the wisdom of keeping the Internet tax free, the national security implications of super-encrypted messaging that can protect your credit card data or be exploited by international terrorists. And then there is the thorny issue of whether the government should play a role in making sure technology does not further widen the divide between the wealthy Net-savvy of the world and the digitally deprived.
IT'S not just the dizzying changes in the electronic economy that leave the candidates mute. Many of the biggest foreign policy crises that Washington has faced in the past decade have been rooted in the turmoil that can roil the global markets, from Russia's economic implosion to the financial meltdowns that struck Mexico and Asia.
But the protests six weeks ago at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle had the chief effect of underscoring to politicians how potent the issues raised by economic globalization have become, both in America and abroad. And the politicians' response has largely been to drive around the whole thing as if it were a bad neighborhood.
Among the candidates, for example, only Gary L. Bauer has raised questions about China's imminent entry into the World Trade Organization.
Mr. Bush's foreign policy speeches have dealt at length with the traditional issues of the 1980's and early 90's -- national missile defense, Iran and Iraq, peacekeeping -- but when he got a question from a voter in New Hampshire last week about how he would have handled the near-collapse of a huge hedge fund 16 months ago, he stumbled, then erroneously said that the Treasury had bailed out the wealthy investors. (He quickly corrected himself after questions from two reporters, acknowledging that private investors, not the taxpayers, had bailed out the fund.)
Vice President Al Gore may be more comfortable dealing with questions about the global economy: after all, he participated in all the administration's midnight meetings about how much to aid Russia, whether to rescue the Mexican peso and how to keep the Asian upheaval from spreading to American shores. But as one top economic aide says, he is "scared to death to open his mouth" on these issues.
Who can blame him?
The administration's all-out push to get China into the W.T.O. has angered labor unions at the very moment Mr. Gore most needs their support. Trade agreements that fail to require other countries to enact environmental protections have driven a wedge between Mr. Gore and his favorite constituency. His foray into government regulation of the export of encryption software put him at odds with Silicon Valley -- at least until last week, when the administration backed down and dropped virtually all controls on such exports.
And just the mention of Russia, Mr. Gore knows, invites the Republicans to ask uncomfortable questions about what happened to America's multibillion-dollar "investment" in converting Russia to capitalism with taxpayer-financed "enterprise funds," which Mr. Gore once proudly hailed. Actually, it's no wonder he'd rather talk about managed care and saving Social Security.
"What's changed in eight years is that globalization is a reality, and it's a very controversial reality," said Mickey Kantor, President Clinton's former trade representative and commerce secretary. "Economic change has run way, way ahead of the politicians, and they don't know how to get a handle on it."
It's hardly the first time.
Back in the presidential election of 1908, when steel and railroad trusts were a national preoccupation and J. P. Morgan played the role of Bill Gates, everyone ran on a don't-mess-with-a-good-economy platform. Then one day William Jennings Bryan argued that "public ownership is necessary where competition is impossible." He quickly backpedaled, but Wall Street and the business community decided he was unfit to run the American economy.
SO it's not too surprising that no one in this year's race dares to wander far from the siren song of the markets.
They are all free traders, promising to destroy trade barriers overseas, but mindful of Mr. Greenspan's message that surging imports keep inflation in check. (In Congressional races, however, where workers at a local factory can form a large and angry voting bloc, trade is often still hotly debated.)
Similarly, everyone is foursquare in favor of letting entrepreneurship flourish. But does the AOL-Time Warner deal encourage innovation and easy access to the Internet for all, or squash it?
"I think it's too early to judge," Mr. Bush said carefully when asked -- for this article -- on Friday. "It's important for people in public positions to be mindful of what could happen in access to the Internet."
Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Gore -- nor the other candidates, for that matter -- have ventured far into the murky waters of the Microsoft case, and have taken particular care not to address the question of whether the company should be broken up, much as Standard Oil was a century ago, or AT&T in the 1980's.
"The market is changing too rapidly," said Mr. Bush, who added, "I haven't paid that much attention about the details."
The candidates are probably wise to be cautious. While the tycoons owned the trusts, lots of steelworkers and secretaries have Microsoft in their 401(k) plans. Worse, the terrain keeps changing. A week ago Microsoft was the biggest gorilla on the block. Now, assuming the AOL-Time deal comes together, there will be two gorillas battling for content and distribution, meaning the market may set up a better competitive fight than the courts ever could. The fact is, no one knows.
But it might be refreshing to determine if Democrats and Republicans had a different approach to ensuring the privacy of computerized records, an issue the Supreme Court touched on last week when it barred states from selling data on drivers' licenses.
And it would be interesting to hear competing plans for bridging the digital divide. Years ago, when utilities stayed neatly within state and national boundaries, the government made sure that basic telephone service reached even the more remote and impoverished outposts. Does a similar plan make sense for the Internet? And who should pay to wire up villages in India and ghettos in Brazil -- their own governments? American foreign aid? The World Bank? AOL-Time Warner?
RIGHT now, the candidates wooing Silicon Valley for cash are steering clear of such discussions. Instead, they talk about keeping the Internet tax free, at least for a while, even though it is not entirely clear why a sale that takes place over the Net should be treated differently from one that takes place over the phone.
"The Valley's attitude is that they just want government as far away from the Internet as possible," an adviser to Mr. Gore said the other day.
So for the next few months at least, it's back to the Farm Bureau.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Railing against globalization in Seattle. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEW ECONOMY (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CHAT ROOMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); ALCOHOLS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); TERRORISM (61%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (52%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



417 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Dot-coms in an Alien Universe

BYLINE: By Ron Chernow; Ron Chernow is the author, most recently, of "Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller Sr."

 BODY:
On Monday morning, Wall Street awoke to the sound of shattered glass.
For several years, the stock market has been divided by a glass partition. On one side, gleeful investors on Prozac have sacrificed current performance for future profits, bidding up Internet and other high-tech shares to giddy levels tethered to no tangible reality. Meanwhile, on the bricks-and-mortar side, stocks have often been penalized for earning real money and paying decent dividends -- embarrassing proof, in the current climate, of a lack of corporate imagination. 
 Then, with the stunning news that America Online would absorb Time Warner, the delirious dot-com universe suddenly collided with the old-fashioned economy of companies that must earn money to survive.
In many ways, AOL has been a traitor in an industry notoriously bereft of profits. Its earnings this past year of nearly $900 million far outstripped those of Time Warner. Yet the stock market has magnified AOL's ample girth to gargantuan proportions. With 12,000 employees and less than $5 billion in annual revenues, the online company has swallowed a media behemoth with 70,000 employees and nearly $27 billion in revenues. This anomaly occurred because euphoric stock investors assigned America Online a valuation as high as $200 billion before the merger, while Time Warner stock languished in the vicinity of $100 billion.
Before this week, virtual companies exchanged their highly inflated shares to take over other companies on the same side of the glass divide. These swaps of Monopoly money didn't threaten traditional corporations and unfolded in a separate, slightly lunatic, realm. Now that Time Warner has accepted AOL's shares as legitimate money, the barrier between the real and virtual economy has been punctured irrevocably, and many dot-com companies will be tempted to rush through the breach. Since these deals will be executed in stock, not cash, the exorbitant price of digital companies will make them natural predators, eyeing traditional companies for dinner.
Yet it's not clear that Internet companies will maintain their heady valuations. After Monday's announced merger, AOL's shares skidded nearly 20 percent before rebounding modestly later in the week. This precipitous slide may foreshadow a distinct aversion of Internet investors to the whole idea of blending the old and new economies.
These traders will sorely miss the glass barrier that kept them sequestered in a financial Brigadoon of fantasy prices and cloudless skies. They've had the luxury of operating in a market of "pure plays" -- that is, companies tied exclusively to the cybereconomy. Now fast-growing Internet companies will be swapping their stock for companies growing far more sluggishly, intermingling the two worlds. The resulting hybrid companies will flush Internet investors from their enchanted kingdom into an alien world where real earnings count.
Investors in the old economy may be no more enamored of these unions. As they receive their AOL stock, will conservative Time Warner investors accept the new math of Internet valuation? Or will they introduce conventional yardsticks of value into a sector that has enjoyed a reprieve from reality?
America Online's bumpy experience last week suggests that high-tech executives wishing to capitalize on inflated shares to shop for real assets may be trapped in a paradox. On the one hand, their current power resides in their elevated stock prices. Yet once they try to exercise that power in the conventional economy, their stocks may plunge, dispelling that very power.
The AOL-Time Warner deal was initially trumpeted as a vindication of cyberpower. As AOL stock subsequently plummeted, however, it underscored instead the perils of Internet companies venturing into the real economy. Should this trigger an exodus of investors from such high-flying companies, it will have profound repercussions, for the stock market has played a critical role in high-tech business strategies.
Once upon a time, fledgling companies relied upon bankers for start-up loans until they had booked enough earnings to justify stock listings. Now, in a superheated investment environment, companies can bypass the banking system altogether, advancing swiftly from conception to a billion-dollar initial public offering in less than a year. These companies then exploit their wildly appreciating shares as currency to take over other companies. At the same time, by dangling stock options, they can lure talented managers from the old economy without paying hefty salaries.
Tumbling share prices in the virtual world would hamper the ability of high-tech companies to hire, expand and innovate, and America might lose some technological sparkle in the process. Yet the bursting bubble would have collateral advantages. Fresh capital would be more equitably distributed across the economy instead of being concentrated in just one sector. The willingness of investors to bankroll every dot-com venture has often appeared indiscriminate, creating expectations among investors that may never be fulfilled, and a measured decline in Internet stocks might mitigate the damage from these excesses.
Whatever the problems along the way, the stock market's glass barrier will disappear. Over the next few years, the technological marvels of cyberspace will so permeate the economy that most companies will represent some blending of old and new. And that will mean a gradual convergence of two sides of a stock market that has suffered from a unique split personality. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MERGERS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



418 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Correspondence/Jail-House Translator;
Seeking Asylum, Some Immigrants Find A Fate Worse Than Criminal

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
I WAS, frankly, unprepared for jail in this country.
While living in Asia, I often encountered people -- particularly Chinese -- who had endured Kafkaesque months or years in prison without ever committing a crime. Their futures were decided not by legal principle but by luck, and American presidential candidates this election season have denounced the arbitrary and often brutal nature of the Chinese system. 
 After my years abroad, I returned to the United States and spent the last few months of 1999 writing a book in my hometown in Yamhill County, Ore., a place as bedrock America as can be, a place that I revere as God's Country and that is the antipodes of China. Except, it turns out, for the jails that house immigrants.
I was pressed into service by county officials as an interpreter for a half-dozen Chinese immigrants who were languishing in jail, awaiting the outcome of their asylum applications. They are among the 17,000 foreigners held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in prisons and jails around the country.
A couple of days later I walked through a series of clanging steel doors into the women's section of the Yamhill County jail. Among the mostly American prisoners, five Chinese women stood out as they walked in a circle around the room, trying to get some exercise.
For months -- in some cases nearly a year -- they had been stuck in jail, not knowing the status of their cases or what would happen to them, not able to ask questions or seek help. According to inmates and jail officials, when two of the Chinese women were ordered to switch bunks and did not understand, guards knocked them to the ground and handcuffed them, bloodying one. Those two women's fear, humiliation and wretchedness increased when they were placed on a punishment regimen for the next four weeks, effectively penalizing them for not understanding English.
When the women heard me speak their language, when they were finally able to explain their nightmare, they began to cry. They told how they had come from various villages in Fujian Province, the area on the coast that is home to many of the Chinese who come to America. Two were teenage sisters, and the rest were in their 20's. They were smart, enterprising and brave, as one would expect of young people who had mortgaged their possessions and taken considerable risks to forge a new life in a land whose language and customs they could not understand.
All had arrived at Portland International Airport and requested asylum. Instead of finding freedom, they were hustled into different jails. Although they had broken no law, they were often treated worse than criminals, who were at least allowed the use of the exercise yard each day. The Chinese were never allowed outside. Supporters in groups like Amnesty International initially were not permitted to give them materials in Chinese, although that was reversed after a county commissioner intervened.
The only stroke of luck these women had was that Jim Bunn, a Republican, lost his re-election bid for Congress and ended up working as a humble jail guard. He took an interest in them, bought Chinese-English dictionaries so that they could communicate and became their guardian angel. "I just kept thinking, 'What if I were in China and in jail?' " he said. "So I wanted to see if I could make things a bit easier for them."
The I.N.S. is often criticized for the way it treats foreigners, sometimes denying them the dignity and safeguards Americans demand when they are jailed overseas. But while the Chinese women had terrible things to say about the I.N.S., they said they were also mistreated by the guards, who looked down on them because they were foreigners and could not communicate.
Still, the women's fundamental concern was not so much their daily treatment as the way they had been locked up without the right to make their case effectively or without any knowledge of what was happening to them.
The well-meaning jail officials for whom I was interpreting asked specific questions about what the Chinese wanted, such as their preferred meal for Christmas. The women shrugged, conferred and decided. "We'd like rice," they said.
What these women cared about most was not better food, outside exercise or even English lessons, they said, but some insight into how their fate would be resolved. "We can get by whatever you feed us," one woman said fervently. "Just tell us, does anybody know about us? Or have we been forgotten?"
Because the women had met only briefly with interpreters, poor ones at that, they said they felt they had been unable to recount their histories thoroughly. Most of them believed they had been lost in a bureaucratic I.N.S. limbo rather like the Chinese criminal justice system.
And maybe they are right.
Under the immigration agency's rules, some of them will be granted asylum and end up American citizens, and the others will spend a year or more in jail and be deported. The children of the former may end up American Ph.D.'s, and the children of the latter will probably end up as Chinese factory workers. The difference between the two groups is largely whim and luck.
It is clear to anyone who talks to Chinese peasants in places like Fujian why they come to America: for the same reason my ancestors did, to live a better life. Most Chinese, however, are smart enough to insist that they are fleeing China's restrictive birth policy. A Congressionally mandated law provides that as many as 1,000 people yearly can gain asylum to avoid persecution on that basis. Some of the refugees may be telling the truth when they say they have violated the policy and face forced sterilization or fines, but there is no way of verifying their stories. The upshot is that immigration judges tend to reward the best-coached, smoothest liars rather than the most deserving applicants.
I put the women in touch with people at Linfield College in nearby McMinnville, and the few Chinese living in the area. Life began to look up for them as they got English lessons, Chinese Bibles and magazines, as well as arrangements to call relatives in China. Then last month, the I.N.S. abruptly took the women away in the middle of the night to other jails, scattering them and telling no one where they had been taken.
One of the women wrote her English teacher, saying her new jailers in The Dalles, Ore., had taken away her Chinese-English Bible, which also helped in her study of English. She also said she is given two envelopes each week, each with 33 cents postage, but could not combine them to get a single envelope with the 60-cents postage needed to write her family in China. "This is not good place to been," she wrote in her newly acquired English. "I'm sad and scared and broken heart. Why they did it for me?"
SOME who made friends with these women thought immigration officials deliberately moved them so they would no longer have any local supporters to monitor their treatment. If that were true, then it mimicked the times in China when I tried to help people and ended up getting them in trouble with their government.
I asked Bill Strassberger, an amiable I.N.S. spokesman, about all this, and he said that the agency would not have moved them to isolate them. The agency tried to remind local jails that these immigrants are not criminals and should be treated with dignity. "I'll be honest with you," he said. "We haven't been totally successful in that."
Now I have moved on, to New York, and I doubt I will see any of these women again. Those who are released and become Americans will eventually see a warmer side of America, but I wonder about those who are sent back to China. What will they say about human rights in this country?
I realize that these women and others like them are fundamentally economic immigrants who in most cases have lied about the reasons they came. Perhaps they should be sent back. Yet I have hectored so many Chinese officials about the importance of a justice system that treats people with compassion that I still feel deeply let down by the fate of these women, especially in a place in the heartland whose essential goodness I cannot question. It would have been nice if Americans could have adhered to the standards to which they hold China.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (79%); OREGON, USA (77%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (73%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); OREGON, USA (77%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMMIGRATION (92%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); WOMEN (87%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



419 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Debating Retirement's New Lines

 BODY:

"On the Retirement Road, 65 Is Still Their Limit" (Seniority, Jan. 2), by Fred Brock, suggested that raising the retirement age to 70 would be difficult for Americans whose jobs required hard physical labor -- construction workers, for example. The column drew varied responses from readers.
To the Editor:
 I think your conclusion is correct that the people making the rules (a small minority) don't need to retire on Social Security as early as possible. They are in high-paying jobs that allow them to carry on with a minimum of pain and strain. That is not so with the vast majority of people. 
 I happen to be in another well-hidden class of people. I hold a Ph.D. in chemistry and was forced to retire at the age of 53. Because of my age and the fact that I have 25-plus years of experience I am virtually unemployable. A company can hire a person straight out of graduate school for half what it would cost for a person with my experience. I have offered to work for the reduced amount, but it does no good since they feel that I will keep looking for another job and leave at the first opportunity.
I receive about $14,000 in pension benefits from my old company. The bottom line is simple. I can't support my wife and 17-year-old daughter on my current income.
I think there are a lot of people in the same position. I paid the maximum into Social Security for the first 25 years of my working life, because I was making a high salary. Now that I'm making much less money, my contribution is far lower. I wonder if I will ever get anything out.
 
ROBERT F. ARMBRUSTER, Ph.D.
Harveys Lake, Pa., Jan. 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DEBATING RETIREMENT'S NEW LINES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS RETIREMENT AGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); 

PERSON: FRED BROCK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



420 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JANUARY 10-14;
In a Whirlwind, Investors Hold On to Hats

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
Investors held their ground last week, even as announcements from some of the country's biggest companies swirled around them like debris in a windstorm.
 America Online's deal on Monday to acquire Time Warner would have been enough for investors to get their arms around, but there was much more: Microsoft named a new chief executive; Charles Schwab decided to buy U.S. Trust; Warner-Lambert and Pfizer were talking the merger talk, and a speech by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, suggested that the Fed would raise interest rates only slightly in early February. 
 The market raced in high gear on Monday, down-shifting on Tuesday and Wednesday, before ending the week in cruise control. For the week, the Nasdaq composite rose 4.7 percent; the Dow Jones industrials climbed 1.7 percent to a record, 11,722.98, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.6 percent.
 The market gyrations are keeping investors off balance, said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Company. Nonetheless, as averages move to new highs, investors who vowed to remain risk-averse are relatively risk-ready. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
America Online
nyse: aol
America Online agreed to buy Time Warner for $165 billion on Monday. Prices of both companies slid the next two days before rebounding. Time Warner ended the week up 26.64 points, to $82.
 
Friday's Close: $63.125
Week'S Change: -14.24%
EST. '00 P/E: 195.22
 
Etec Systems
nnm: etec
Applied Materials agreed to buy the maker of tools used to transfer chip patterns onto photomasks for about $1.78 billion in stock. Applied's shares fell after it said the deal would cut per-share earnings by 2 percent.
 
Friday's Close: $83.0625
Week'S Change: +94.30%
EST. '00 P/E: 111.64
 
UAL
nyse: ual
The parent company of United Airlines said its 2000 earnings were likely to be as much as 28 percent below expectations. It cited rising labor and fuel costs, troubles common to the industry.
 
Friday's Close: $65.125
Week'S Change: -11.40%
EST. '00 P/E: 6.54
 
U.S. Trust
nyse: utc
Charles Schwab, the discount brokerage firm, agreed to buy U.S. Trust, a money manager that caters to wealthy Americans, for $2.73 billion in stock.
 
Friday's Close: $136.375
Week'S Change: +74.84%
EST. '00 P/E: 32.75
 
Rawlings Sporting
Goods
nnm: rawl
The maker of Major League baseballs confirmed it ended talks with Bull Run, which had offered to buy it for $10 to $13.25 a share.
 
Friday's Close: $5.4375
Week'S Change: -28.10%
EST. '00 P/E: 9.38
 
Hughes Electronics
nyse: gmh
Boeing said it would buy the space and communications business of General Motors's Hughes Electronics unit for $3.75 billion. Boeing is also buying two other Hughes businesses.
 
Friday's Close: $119.625
Week'S Change: +22.07%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
Drugstore.com
nnm: dscm
The Internet company, which markets health, beauty and wellness products, agreed to buy the closely held Beauty.com, an online retailer of cosmetics, for about $42.3 million.
 
Friday's Close: $29.00
Week'S Change: -13.76%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
Bell & Howell
nyse: bhw
The database and information-services provider said it planned to split into two companies; one focusing on information and publishing, the other on imaging and mail- services operations.
 
Friday's Close: $37.75
Week'S Change: +26.10%
EST. '00 P/E: 18.74

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (90%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AOL INC (58%); PFIZER INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (92%); BONDS (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MERGERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



421 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: France Presses the U.N. to Help Poor Nations Get AIDS Drugs

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 14

 BODY:
As more international attention focuses on an AIDS epidemic spreading out of control, France is prodding the United Nations to find ways to make cheaper drugs available to poor countries, where treatment is beyond the means of most people who need it.
The Clinton administration also supports the cause championed by France. But officials and AIDS experts contend that drug companies have been resistant to pleas that they alter their pricing policies or donate medicines to poor countries. 
 Alain Dejammet, France's representative at the United Nations, proposed during an all-day Security Council meeting on the AIDS crisis in Africa last Monday that a three-way conference be convened to bring together rich nations, their pharmaceutical companies and representatives of poorer countries in desperate need of affordable medicines.
Mr. Dejammet said the interests of pharmaceutical companies, which fear the erosion of their patents on drugs developed at enormous costs in research and testing, would have to be taken into account.
He said that for this reason, France was proposing that the companies and countries involved in both buying and selling drugs get together to discuss how to avoid more confrontations over intellectual property rights.
He said in an interview Thursday that given the huge numbers of AIDS cases in the developing world, treatment should not be forgotten in the rush to support prevention efforts -- many of them more educational than medical -- and the development of an AIDS vaccine. The 21 countries with the world's highest H.I.V. infection rates are all in Africa, and these nations are also among the world's poorest.
Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the same council session on Monday, also raised the question of how to make medicines more readily available, an issue President Clinton had addressed at the contentious World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in December.
"We are also committed to helping poor countries gain access to affordable medicines, including those for H.I.V./AIDS," Mr. Gore told the Security Council. "Last month, the president announced a new approach to ensure that we take public health crises into account when applying U.S. trade policy. We will cooperate with our trading partners to assure that U.S. trade policies do not hinder the efforts to respond to health crises."
Mr. Gore said the United States would add $150 million to next year's budget for fighting AIDS. A third of that amount would go to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations, which sponsors medical research and works on the distribution of drugs to the third world. In total, the Clinton administration is seeking to make $325 million available for the American contribution to the worldwide campaign against AIDS.
Mr. Gore learned last year how complicated efforts to aid poorer nations can be when negotiations with pharmaceutical companies are involved. He drew protesters to his campaign rallies after he presented the position of American drug companies in talks with South Africa.
The talks concerned a 1997 South African law that allowed imports of cheaper, but unlicensed, copies of American drugs for AIDS and opened the way for South African manufacturers to produce generic versions of their own.
Forty pharmaceutical companies responded by first lobbying the South Africans and then filing a lawsuit. The suit was suspended in September when South Africa said that the law would be re-examined. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (91%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIDS & HIV (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (73%); VACCINES (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PATENTS (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (64%); BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



422 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Price of Joining Old and New Was Core Issue in AOL Deal

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
The journey to last week's announcement that America Online would buy Time Warner in history's largest merger began last fall and included secret meetings in New York and Boston and a key dinner on Jan. 6 at the home of Stephen M. Case, the chairman of America Online.
But the turning point for the deal came not at a dinner or a power breakfast, but over the New Year's holiday in the solitude of the small library of the Vermont vacation home of Gerald M. Levin, the chairman of Time Warner. It was there, where Mr. Levin says he does his best thinking, that the chairman of the world's largest media company finally decided he would accept less than half ownership of the combined company. 
 Time Warner, to be sure, would contribute about 80 percent of the revenues of the new company, thanks to the cash-producing might of a media empire that spans Time and Sports Illustrated, Warner Brothers and CNN. But it was America Online, with its Internet flash, that was the hot stock on Wall Street, and thus worth far more than Time Warner.
So Mr. Levin accepted that the price of leaping into the Internet era with America Online would be a high one. But there were limits, too. In Vermont, he came up with the make-or-break offer he would propose at dinner later that week at Mr. Case's home in suburban northern Virginia: Time Warner shareholders would agree to own only 45 percent of the new company, while America Online shareholders would get 55 percent.
"I decided then that if AOL would go along with that, we had a deal," Mr. Levin recalled last Friday. "If not, we were going to have to go our separate ways."
The story of how the America Online-Time Warner deal was put together is the step-by-step account of two major companies -- a front-runner in the New Economy and a leader of the Old Economy -- grappling with those issues of business strategy and pricing.
In industry after industry, executives are being forced to confront the same issue that Mr. Levin faced: At what pace and at what price to enter the Internet economy? And for their part, as the Internet moves into the mainstream, other Internet executives face the core issue that Mr. Case did in this deal: Does it make sense to buy into established industries even if it means slower growth and a lower stock price?
At times, America Online and Time Warner seemed far apart, almost to the point of parting ways. But "we kept on dribbling the ball, even when it seemed that there was no air in it," observed Kenneth Novack, America Online's chief negotiator on the deal.
Eventually, the executive teams of both companies decided that heading as one into uncharted territory was a gamble worth taking.
"If they are right," said James L. Barksdale, an America Online board member, "this could be an awesome company, and one that delivers long-term value for shareholders."
If they are right.
Mr. Case took the first step in October with a telephone call to Mr. Levin. The two men had spent time together the previous month at executive gatherings -- first the Global Business Dialogue on E-Commerce in Paris and then the Fortune Global Forum in Shanghai, sponsored by Time Warner.
What made Mr. Levin most interesting to Mr. Case was the strategic research that the senior management team had been conducting at America Online's headquarters in Dulles, Va.
With their company's stock price rising sharply last year, the America Online management team looked anew at the possibilities for those increasingly valuable shares -- a currency for forging alliances and making acquisitions.
According to one team member, they focused on three types of companies: cable television or telephone companies that might give America Online assured access to powerful, high-speed communications networks; Internet companies they might acquire; and media concerns that they might team up with or buy outright.
Time Warner loomed in two of those fields, as a huge media company and as the nation's second-largest cable network operator. And Mr. Case got along well with Mr. Levin in Paris and Shanghai. So he called Mr. Levin to describe a future in which the media and Internet seem increasingly likely to converge -- as the personal computer, the television and the telephone become parallel digital pathways to new types of information and entertainment services.
"My motivation is to position this company to capitalize on the era of convergence," Mr. Case explained in an interview. "Time Warner has powerful media brands, and I think people underestimate the power of established media brands and the customer relationships that those brands represent."
Mr. Case called Mr. Levin in October not simply to spin visions, but also to float a specific proposal. He said he was thinking of a 50-50 "merger of equals" in which Mr. Levin would be the chief executive officer, running the company, and Mr. Case would be chairman. Intrigued, Mr. Levin suggested that the two meet soon.
On Nov. 1, they dined at the Rihga Royal Hotel in Manhattan in a private room, "so no one would see us," Mr. Levin recalled. As they sat down, Mr. Levin told Mr. Case he did not want to discuss the subject of price just yet, but instead wanted to focus on what he called the "social issues" -- whether the two shared similar perspectives on management and whether Mr. Case understood the need to avoid allowing business considerations crimp the independence of Time Warner's thousands of magazine and broadcast journalists.
Both men came away from that dinner satisfied that they should take things to the next level. And so a pair of skilled corporate sherpas -- one representing each side -- started gearing up for the climb to the summit.
For America Online, the key negotiator was Mr. Novack, the 58-year-old vice chairman, a Boston lawyer who for years has been a trusted elder adviser to Mr. Case, who is 41. On major matters, as one senior manager put it, "Ken Novack is the last guy Steve talks to before he pulls the trigger."
Time Warner's chief negotiator was Richard J. Bressler, 42, who joined the company in 1988 from Ernst & Young, where he had become one of the youngest partners in the history of the accounting and management consulting firm. He quickly rose up the ranks to become chief financial officer and, last summer, chairman of Time Warner Digital Media -- a priority for Mr. Levin, 60, who in a recent company memo described Mr. Bressler's mandate as the "digital makeover of all Time Warner."
At noon on Nov. 16, Mr. Novack and a colleague, Miles Gilburne, met with Mr. Bressler in his 28th-floor Rockefeller Center office, a view of ice-skaters in the rink below. They wanted to explore what new services might be feasible if the two companies merged.
They discussed how people receive information and entertainment, or "content," today (through magazines, television and Internet-connected PC's) and how they might receive it in a couple of years (digital cell phones, wireless hand-held devices).
Mr. Gilburne, a senior strategist at America Online, usually explains his ideas while scribbling on a huge whiteboard at his office in Virginia. Because Mr. Bressler's office had no such amenity, Mr. Gilburne asked for an easel with a large pad of paper attached. Soon sheets of Mr. Gilburne's diagrams and notes covered Mr. Bressler's gray walls.
When the three-hour meeting ended, Mr. Bressler recalled, "We walked out of there really juiced about what we could do."
But even as the business logic of a merger looked more and more appealing, the pricing issue was becoming increasingly difficult. That became apparent the next morning, Nov. 17, when Mr. Case and Mr. Levin met for breakfast at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan.
America Online's stock had been rising steeply. For Mr. Case, that made his original notion of a 50-50 ownership deal no longer practical. The currency of the deal, after all, was America Online stock. "I was prepared to pay a premium," Mr. Case recalled, "but there was only so far I could go."
By then, according to people close to the talks, Mr. Case was pushing for 60 percent to 65 percent ownership of the combined company. Although the two men decline to disclose what ownership percentages were discussed over breakfast, Mr. Levin recalled: "It was clear that we weren't together. I said, 'I don't see how we're going to bridge that gap.' "
Hoping to narrow the gap, the two sides held a pair of meetings in December, one in New York, the other in Boston, accompanied by senior investment bankers: Eduardo Mestre, a vice chairman of Salomon Smith Barney, representing America Online, and Paul Taubman, a managing director at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who helped advise Viacom on its merger with CBS, representing Time Warner.
The parties agreed that the companies would have the same number of directors on the board. But the ownership ratio remained the big question.
Over the holidays, Mr. Levin and Mr. Bressler talked frequently by phone. Mr. Levin had decided the options were a merger with America Online or a primarily go-it-alone digital strategy for Time Warner.
"I had essentially eliminated in my mind any other merger," Mr. Levin recalled.
Returning from his New Year's holiday in Vermont, Mr. Levin instructed Mr. Bressler to call America Online and set up a meeting with Mr. Case. A dinner was arranged for the following evening at Mr. Case's house in McLean, Va.
On Jan. 6, Mr. Levin and Mr. Bressler, who had flown down from New York on a Time Warner corporate jet, arrived at Mr. Case's house at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Levin noticed that two decorative Christmas reindeer on Mr. Case's lawn had fallen down. Perhaps an omen, Mr. Levin recalled thinking, that "we weren't going to do this deal."
Over wine in the living room, the four men talked about their companies, but other things as well, including sports and Time Warner's HBO hit series "The Sopranos," which Mr. Novack sheepishly confessed he had not seen. The discussion in the living room lasted "about a bottle and a half," or 90 minutes, before they began dinner, Mr. Novack recalled.
Finally, Mr. Levin steered the conversation to the one issue not yet discussed: ownership. He revealed that he was willing to settle for 45 percent ownership of the merged company for Time Warner shareholders. That would mean 1.5 shares in AOL Time Warner, as the merged company would be named, for each share of Time Warner stock -- but not a fraction less.
Mr. Case, who had long been pushing for a 60-40 split, called for a bottle of 1990 Chateau Leoville-Las-Cases from the wine cellar. The deal, in essence, was done.
Still, there was "no clinking of glasses or high fives," Mr. Novack recalled. When the chocolate mousse was cleared at midnight, both sides agreed to go off and sleep on their decision.
Back in New York the following morning, Mr. Levin said, "I got up and felt comfortable that it was the right thing to do."
He asked Mr. Bressler to call America Online. At 9:15 a.m., Mr. Bressler called Mr. Novack. "Is there anything that has changed since we talked last night?" Mr. Bressler asked.
"No," Mr. Novack replied. "Nothing at all."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen M. Case, left, America Online chairman, and Gerald M. Levin, chairman of Time Warner, laid the groundwork for the two companies' deal. Ted Turner, right, Time Warner's vice chairman, supported it. (Associated Press)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (90%); OLD ECONOMY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLD ECONOMY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MERGERS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); 

PERSON: STEVE CASE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



423 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Custody Case Is Overshadowing Shift Among Cuban Immigrants

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Wiry, wearing a red St. Louis Cardinals baseball cap, Carlos Rodriguez, 18, speaks in the vernacular of American youth. Just finishing high school, Mr. Rodriguez has lived in Miami for the 10 years since he and his parents fled Cuba, where he said his father was a political prisoner.
At lunch in the heart of Little Havana this week, Mr. Rodriguez was speaking about the one subject that has held Miami and some of the nation spellbound this month: the political custody fight over the 6-year-old Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez. Mr. Rodriguez acknowledged that he shared the contempt for Fidel Castro that many Cuban-Americans here feel. But he did not share the view that Elian, whose mother drowned fleeing Cuba with him in November, should be given to the relatives who are holding him here. 
 The strident Miami voices -- the P. T. Barnums of media manipulation, the high-powered lawyers, the organizers of demonstrations -- have been filling the nation's airwaves and front pages, celebrating what they see as the martyrdom of a mother for her child's freedom.
But tune out the racket and what emerges from the feud over Elian is a split over American trade and immigration policies; fatigue with both the old guard's myths of the pre-revolutionary Cuba and its plots to rout Mr. Castro.
Mr. Rodriguez is among those who have adopted a mellower view. Like most Cuban-Americans, he has relatives in Cuba who want to emigrate. "I have a sister waiting to come over," he said. If Elian is not returned to his father, who remains in Cuba, President Castro might retaliate by prohibiting the legal emigration of the 20,000 Cubans whom the United States agrees to admit each year. "I'd rather sacrifice one boy for 1,000 people," Mr. Rodriguez said.
Others agree, if for different reasons. Small dissident groups have formed to challenge the Cuban American National Foundation, which has long been controlled by hard-line exiles of a generation ago. Two groups, Cambio Cubano and the Cuban Committee for Democracy, would scrap the punitive measures against Cuba, like the longstanding United States embargo, and move toward normal diplomatic relations.
But in interviews this week across the city, Miami's 700,000 Cuban-Americans seem to remain united in opposition to Mr. Castro. A poll by WLTV-Channel 23 here found that 88 percent of Cuban-Americans also oppose the Immigration and Naturalization Service's ruling this month that Elian be returned to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.
For the larger Cuban-American community here, most differences with the old guard lie more in emphasis and priorities than in the substance of policy. "It's not so much a difference of opinion as a difference in agenda," said Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuba Research Institute at Florida International University.
Max Castro, a sociologist at the University of Miami, said: "These are people who do not participate in hard-line political organizations. They have been able to transcend the hard-line groups. They have overcome the hyperhatred of Castro; not that they support Castro."
The softer views do not align neatly along the class and generational fault lines that mark the assimilation of many other immigrant groups. Much of Little Havana, though mixed today with other Latino immigrant groups, remains emphatically Cuban. Cigar rolling thrives, third-generation children speak Spanish at home, quinceaneras -- 15-year-old girls -- still mark their transition to adulthood in lacy white dresses at big parties.
Nowhere is the contrast between the threats and official pronouncements and the daily life of Little Havana starker than at the white stucco matchbox of a house where Elian has settled with his great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, who has petitioned the court for his custody.
All day Thursday, as every day, television networks' big white vans muscle against the house's chain-link fence with satellite antennas on their roofs and 20-foot microphone booms hovering over the small yard. Just home from school, Elian rolled out from the backyard, chewing blue gum, wearing a new wristwatch and driving a new battery-powered toy stock car.
Four men -- Mr. Gonzalez and relatives -- seated themselves on metal kitchen chairs at one side of the yard. Around and around Elian drove, , neither sad nor happy, tracing the same loop. He did not nod or wave to the relatives keeping an eye on him, and though occasionally he is playful with the media, he was not on this day.
The house in Little Havana has become a sanctuary of anti-Castro sentiment, where a few women stand vigil at the fence every day to defend the interests of Elian's mother.
"He should stay," one woman said. "This was the decision of his mother. He loved his mother."
"His mother died in the sea," said Marta Santana, who immigrated here 40 years ago. "He's living. She sacrificed herself to come."
Beyond the house, however, views are more diverse.
"I think it's all a political thing," said Mike Freire, 45, who came to Miami at age 6 and sells cigars made in the Dominican Republic throughout the United States. "They're just using the kid as a basketball." He wants the child returned to Cuba.
"My concern is the psychological effect," Mr. Freire said. "It's horrible, what we are doing to him. The politicians are wrong." This is not a view that Mr. Freire is comfortable expressing. "You have to watch what you say. You might be accused of being a communist."
Elizabeth Rojas, 36, who works for an advertising agency and has three daughters, age 11, 10 and 4, clings to her Cuban culture, requiring Spanish spoken at home and preparing Cuban cuisine.
In many ways, Ms. Rojas, whose parents fled Cuba in 1958 and whose husband is a police officer, is a hard-liner. She would keep Elian here and topple Mr. Castro. But she draws the line on the American embargo against trade with Cuba because, she said, it has worsened the lives of Cubans. "A lot of people are starving," she said.
Efrain Quevedo, 37, a sales manager for a food company, and his wife, Terry, an investigator for the City of Miami, take issue with the Cuban-American leadership's efforts to steer American policy toward ending the Castro regime. "Unless the people there do something," Mr. Quevedo said, "I don't think the United States is going to be able to do anything."
Ms. Quevedo takes issue with demonstrations that disrupt the lives of others, like the traffic-stopping protests last week in Miami against Elian's repatriation. "It's all right as long as it's peaceful," she said.
But the prevailing concern for newer immigrants of the 1980's and 1990's is not so much Mr. Castro and communism as economic opportunity. "For me, Castro is nothing," said Luis Fernandez, a manager of the Versailles Restaurant in Little Havana.
Managing restaurants "is my profession," he said. He left Cuba for Chile four years ago and moved to Miami only two months ago. "Here, when you work more hours, you get paid for more hours." Someday, he said, he will start a business. "I've promised myself that if the government changes, I'd still never go back. This is my thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elian Gonzalez playfully sprayed a group of photographers with a can of plastic string on Friday outside his relatives' home in Miami. (Laura Kleinhenz/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BASEBALL (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



424 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
DECISIVE ROLE SEEN FOR BLACK VOTERS IN LATER CONTESTS

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 15

 BODY:
When the Democratic presidential candidates finally withdraw from Iowa and New Hampshire, where the electorate is predominantly white, they will move quickly into Southern states where black voters often play a decisive role.
And at the moment, at least, Vice President Al Gore seems to enjoy a commanding advantage with African-American voters, despite former Senator Bill Bradley's passionate commitment to the cause of improving race relations.
Public opinion polls, lists of endorsements and interviews with dozens of Democratic strategists and black political leaders all suggest that Mr. Gore holds a distinct early lead over Mr. Bradley among black voters in states like Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. 
 Those states all vote in the first two weeks of March, shortly after the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 24 and the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 1. And in each of those places, political history suggests that black voters could make up a significant share of the electorate, particularly in states where competitive Republican primaries may drain white voters from the Democratic contests.
Mr. Gore, who will deliver remarks at the annual Martin Luther King Jr. holiday commemoration at the Ebenezer Baptist Church here on Monday, is counting on black voters in the South to provide a firewall of protection against the possibility of an early loss in New Hampshire, where some recent polls show Mr. Bradley with a narrow lead.
Black voters will also be important in the New York primary on March 7 and, to a somewhat lesser extent, in the California voting the same day. Those two primaries award the most Democratic delegates, and Mr. Bradley may prove more competitive with black voters in those states, where he is better known and will have an enormous incentive to spend time and resources, Democratic strategists say.
Both Democratic candidates have strong -- and largely similar -- positions on issues that tend to appeal to black voters, whether generic concerns like education, health care, crime and economic growth, or narrower topics like affirmative action and racial profiling. And both use deeply personal anecdotes to connect with black voters, with Mr. Bradley describing the discrimination he witnessed against black teammates with the New York Knicks and with Mr. Gore recalling how his father took him to see slave rings in the basement of a mansion in their Tennessee town.
If anything, Mr. Bradley has been more direct than Mr. Gore in using his candidacy to call for a war on poverty, which disproportionately afflicts black Americans, and to appeal for racial harmony.
"If I'm president, I want one thing to be known," Mr. Bradley said in a poignant speech about race delivered in New York last April. "If you want to please the boss, one of the things you'd better show is how in your department or agency you've furthered tolerance and racial understanding."
But in the pursuit of black votes, Mr. Gore holds a card that seems to trump Mr. Bradley's oratorical outreach: the vice presidency. If Mr. Gore's ties to President Clinton have hurt him with some voters, they are an enormous asset among blacks. For seven years, Mr. Gore has played loyal lieutenant to a president who remains immensely popular with black Americans, and he has used his office to champion causes, bestow access, deliver federal aid and raise political funds for black officials across the country.
Those leaders are now rewarding Mr. Gore's efforts, often emphasizing that they hold nothing against Mr. Bradley but have little reason to look beyond the vice president. In interview after interview this week, black political leaders explained their support for Mr. Gore by citing the Clinton administration's appointment of black officials, its economic successes and its support for cities and affirmative action. A CBS News poll taken last month showed that 88 percent of African-Americans approved of Mr. Clinton, compared with 51 percent of whites.
"Look, Bill Bradley is a fine fellow and he has a good record," said Bill Campbell, the two-term mayor of Atlanta, who is black and a longtime backer of Mr. Gore. "But I don't understand how anyone would imagine that black voters would desert a vice president who has been so remarkably supportive of the African-American community. When a constituency is appreciated and respected and assisted on critical issues, that ought to count for something, and it does."
Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a black Democrat who supports Mr. Gore, echoed Mr. Campbell's remarks. "There's a loyalty to Gore that Senator Bradley cannot shake," Mr. Lewis said. "It's just impossible. There's a hold there and he cannot pull it away."
Mr. Lewis and Mr. Campbell are far from alone. Mr. Gore has been endorsed by 29 of the 38 black Democrats in Congress, while Mr. Bradley has yet to be endorsed by any. In addition to Mr. Campbell, Mr. Gore has the backing of the black mayors of Cleveland; Houston; Jackson, Miss.; Macon, Ga.; Memphis; Minneapolis; Newark; New Orleans; Savannah, Ga.; St. Louis, and Washington, as well as of a number of influential black state legislators.
Because presidential primaries typically draw a low turnout, and are usually dominated by party activists, such endorsements can be critical if elected officials mobilize their political machinery on behalf of a candidate. Some Gore organizers in the South, and even some unaligned party leaders, predict that blacks could make up 35 percent to 40 percent of the Democratic primary electorate in states like Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina. Mr. Gore, himself a Southerner, should win the overwhelming majority of those votes, they say.
"I'd say if the election were held today, clearly Gore would get 80 percent" of the black vote in Louisiana, said Ben Jeffers, an African-American who is that state's Democratic chairman.
In 1992, Bill Clinton captured huge majorities of the black vote in Democratic primaries in key states, winning at least 70 percent in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Texas, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
"That was key in terms of Clinton's strategy, and it's one of the reasons why I really don't think, unless Gore has some kind of meltdown, that Bill Bradley has any chance of beating Al Gore," said David A. Bositis, an expert on black voting trends with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. Three recent national polls all showed that blacks favored Mr. Gore over Mr. Bradley by margins of between two and three to one.
Mr. Bradley's list of notable African-American supporters features only a smattering of local elected officials, including three state assemblymen from New York City and the minority leader of the Ohio State Senate. The most prominent names belong to Mr. Bradley's former colleagues in the National Basketball Association, like Julius Erving and Willis Reed, and entertainment figures like the film director Spike Lee and the actor Lawrence Fishburne, and academics like Prof. Cornel West of Harvard and the historian Roger Wilkins of George Mason University, who is misidentified in a Bradley campaign release as a law professor at George Washington University. They are men with fans, but not with political organizations.
The Bradley campaign has made it transparent that its insurgent strategy depends on breakthrough victories in northeastern states like New Hampshire and New York that aides believe will catapult him with tornadic velocity into a newly reordered political universe. Under those circumstances, the campaign reasons, black voters, like all voters, will be compelled to give Mr. Bradley a fresh look. Bradley aides acknowledge that the task will not be easy, and that they will have little time to gain traction.
"The black community votes in such a unified fashion that it has become a tradition that we stick together," said Jacques A. DeGraff, a black Baptist minister who serves as senior adviser to the Bradley campaign. "Traditionally, we deliver 80 percent to the candidates we get behind. So it takes a great deal of activity to begin the shift. At first it will be imperceptible. Then it will be a trickle. And then I believe it will be a flood."
Similarly, Sheriff Nat Glover of Duval County, Fla., a black Bradley supporter, said that Mr. Bradley would be able to sell himself to black voters once he had a chance to make contact. Mr. Glover, who only met Mr. Bradley four months ago, said he was impressed at how Mr. Bradley's experience as a teammate and roommate of black basketball players seemed to have shaped his racial sensibilities.
But Mr. Glover also said he knew of no other black elected officials in Florida who were supporting Mr. Bradley. "I've been in the company of individuals who are certainly considering supporting Bill," said Mr. Glover, whose county includes Jacksonville. "I haven't noticed a ground swell, but I have noticed quite a bit of interest."
As the race has tightened, Mr. Gore has found countless ways to send messages to black voters. He campaigned in November at the Memphis church where Dr. King spoke the night before he was killed. Last month, he staged an "African-Americans for Gore" rally in Atlanta, declaring that "anyone who says affirmative action is no longer needed because we've reached the promised land has confused wilderness with Canaan." He regularly recalls the civil rights legacy of his father, Senator Al Gore Sr., while neglecting to mention that the elder Gore voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964, a year when he faced re-election in Tennessee.
The vice president hired a black woman, Donna Brazile, as his campaign manager, and when Ms. Brazile suggested in a recent interview that the Republican Party used black partisans like Gen. Colin Powell and Representative J. C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma as window dressing, Mr. Gore soothed Mr. Powell with a phone call. But he was careful to neither criticize his aide nor dispute her point.
Ron Lester, a Democratic pollster who is not working for either candidate, said polls he had conducted in Chicago, Miami, Atlanta and North Carolina showed that Mr. Bradley had picked up support among white Democrats but had not gained on Mr. Gore with black voters.
"In order for blacks to take a second look at Bradley, not only would he have to have momentum but he would have to blow Gore out in the early states," Mr. Lester said. "As long as Gore is standing, I don't see any compelling evidence that black voters will leave him." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (97%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



425 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Sisterhood Recruits for a Next Generation

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: HARTSDALE, N.Y., Jan. 15

 BODY:
For young women in a culture saturated with alluring images of riches and sensuality, it is an unlikely advertising come-on. Turn your back on money and men and spend your life helping people who are sick, poor and uneducated.
It's the ultimate tough sell, but the message is: Forget Madonna. Become a nun. 
 These days the Sisters of Mercy of the Americas, one of the nation's largest orders of Roman Catholic nuns, are making the pitch with a vengeance, and they are using all the tools of the modern age: test markets, target audiences, catchy graphics and, new this month, a Web site. One recruitment poster that was sent this week to college campuses shows a close-up of God's hand reaching out to Adam's from Michelangelo's "Creation of Adam." Adam is holding a cellular phone, and the text reads: "Do you have a call waiting?"
The nuns have no choice. For more than three decades the number of Catholic nuns in the United States has fallen, to about 83,000 last year from about 180,000 in 1965. Compounding the decline is the aging of their population; the median age of American nuns is 68. The result has been a draining of resources from the many charities and institutions the nuns helped create.
"It is a personnel crisis," said Scott Appleby, director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at the University of Notre Dame. "Sisters really did build the American Catholic Church through their teaching in the parochial school system and their staffing of Catholic hospitals. They have been the backbone of the church in this century, and it's absolutely critical to address the question of the next generation and who will succeed them."
In the recruitment campaign, the New York, New Jersey and Brooklyn chapters, or communities, of the Sisters of Mercy teamed up to create the posters and brochures, which are aimed at women 21 to 35. "If you appear old and nonvibrant, that becomes an obstacle to anyone wanting to enter religious life," said Sister Patricia Wolf, president of the New York community, adding that the images showed a "connection to the world and also to humor."
Scholars and the nuns themselves point to a number of factors responsible for the dwindling population of nuns, a decline far more precipitous than the corresponding drop in the number of Roman Catholic priests.
The women's movement and cultural revolution of the 1960's opened up a world of new opportunities for women, from careers in law to stints in the Peace Corps. Moreover, where it was not uncommon in the 1950's and 1960's for Catholic women to join the ranks of nuns if they were not yet engaged to be married by their college graduation, in the 1970's and beyond it became more acceptable for women to marry later in life. And given the booming economy of recent years and a return to family values, taking vows of poverty and chastity is, in some sense, a countercultural, even radical, move.
As laypeople steadily replace nuns on the staffs of Catholic schools and social service agencies, young women are losing their exposure to nuns and the more modern ways in which they live today -- wearing street clothes, often residing in apartments and holding down demanding jobs.
"The conundrum," said Professor Appleby, "is that as the number of sisters falls and the ones who remain are drawn into leadership positions, there is less opportunity for that personal contact that was so effective earlier in the century."
Other religious orders now are trying to turn the tide by injecting some of that face-to-face contact. The Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary, an order with 1,100 members worldwide, is taking advantage of its Hamptons real estate by holding "Come and See" weekends several times a year at its retreat house in Sag Harbor in eastern Long Island.
"It's a chance to come and get to know us in an informal setting," said Sister Mary Alice Young, director of development for the order on the East Coast, based in Tarrytown, N.Y. "The sisters talk about their own experience, and people can ask questions without being embarrassed."
Like the Sisters of Mercy, the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary last year created a Web site, and for the last two years the community has run advertisements in Catholic newspapers. "One of the things you're constantly hearing is that the baby boomers and generation X are totally separate entities, and you have to learn to reach the generations differently," Sister Mary Alice said. "It's speaking to a whole different world than the one I grew up in."
Across the country, there are similar efforts. In Indiana, the Sisters of Benedict assembled a lay committee of professionals with experience in marketing and communications. The order now has a toll-free number, a Web site and advertising. One ad beckons with the cheeky line: "You don't have to be perfect to be a nun. God knows we're not."
And in California, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles has made the recruitment of nuns and priests a high priority. Later this month, the archdiocese will invite 150 to 250 people to its annual "7 to 11 Day." Starting at 7 a.m., the men and women trail the priests and nuns as they go about their day. Later they are treated to dinner with Cardinal Roger M. Mahony and a talent show. Past acts have included comedy and line dancing.
There is hope among nuns that they can tap into this millennial moment, when gift shops sell nothing but angels, and best-selling books, rock songs and television shows unabashedly deal with issues relating to religion, the soul and the afterlife.
"I think that probably more than at any recent time, there is a real quest today for spirituality," said Sister Patricia of the Sisters of Mercy. "The media gives evidence of that. You have something like 'Touched by an Angel' on television and other shows. So an attraction to religious life is perhaps even more possible than it has been at other times."
A sampling of reactions on two traditionally Catholic campuses in Westchester County, however, found that for most students, the idea of becoming a nun was just short of unthinkable. Jessica Hogan, a senior at Iona College in New Rochelle, said: "I never considered it. It seems outdated and old-fashioned."
But Mary Delia, a 29-year-old graduate student at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, who is from a "very strong Catholic family," and attended Catholic schools, said she had considered the profession as a girl. Ms. Delia's mother was a nun for seven years before leaving, and both her aunt and cousin are nuns. "I've grown up around nuns, so I have a different outlook than a lot of people," Ms. Delia said. "You can be part of a religious order and still be a human being."
Ultimately, she decided the religious life was not for her. The recruitment posters might help, Ms. Delia said, but she believes that the reason young women have shunned the sisterhood is the diminishing power of the Catholic Church over their lives. "The problem is young people don't stay in the church," she said. "You have to have that belief."
Becoming a nun is a lengthy affair. At the Sisters of Mercy, an international order with 5,700 members in 12 countries, first there are periodic discussions between a prospective nun and a vocation director for six months to a year. A formal application is then made to the leadership team.
If accepted, the candidate lives with other nuns for two years but retains her outside job and assets. For the next two years she is a "novice," giving up her job and pursuing spiritual development. Then, just before taking her first vows, she disposes of her assets and begins a ministry in keeping with the order's mission. Three to five years later, she takes her final vows.
"It's a long process because it's a big step," said Sister Theresa Condon, who works with new members for the Sisters of Mercy. "What we're looking for, basically, is: Are they happy, and will there be a good fit?"
The New York, New Jersey and Brooklyn regional communities of the Sisters of Mercy are also determined to increase the minority representation among their members, who are overwhelmingly white. One of the posters shows an African-American woman in prayer.
"We don't reflect as a community the ethnic background of New York City," Sister Patricia said in her spacious office on a former estate here. "Just walk around. We have a significant amount of work to do."
Sister Barbara Ann Catherine Gourdine, 40, is a relatively new -- and young -- member, having made her temporary vows two years ago. She is also African-American, one of only two in the New York community, which has 187 members. She actually joined the order at 21 but left in 1988. "In leaving it gave me a chance to grow and find out who I was as a person," she said.
She has had to adjust to living with three women in a house after years of living alone in an apartment, and she recently took a job teaching in a Catholic school after 10 years in a public school. "It's not what I expected," she said, "but I am happy."
With members from Staten Island to the Adirondacks, as well as the Worcester, Mass., area (the result of a merger), the New York community of the Sisters of Mercy is spread thin. The order sponsors two high schools, three health-care centers and three social-service agencies. There are pastoral duties and community outreach as well, but half the members are retired.
Sister Patricia frequently finds herself saying no to people who call to inquire whether a nun might be available to fill a teaching position, say, or simply to lead a retreat day. "There are days when I say, 'How can we do that?' " she said. "You would die to have someone for that."
Yet nuns resist the idea that they face extinction, and they look to their history for solace. "In some ways, you could say, 'Well, it's dying out and the last person should turn out the lights,' " Sister Mary Alice said. "But we were founded by only six sisters 150 years ago. So what you need are committed women."
And, she said, there will always be those.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Partly out of desperation, nuns are making their appeals snappier. (pg. 1); The Sisters of Mercy of the Americas has sent its recruitment posters to college campuses.; Sister Patricia Wolf, left, president of the Sisters of Mercy's New York community, says the order needs to appear vibrant to attract new members. Sister Barbara Ann Catherine Gourdine joined the order at 21, went away and then recently rejoined. She now teaches at a Catholic school. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 34)
 
Graph "Fewer Nuns" shows the drop in nun numbers nationwide from 1965-99. (Source: Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); WOMEN (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); TEST MARKETING (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

PERSON: MARY ALICE YOUNG (64%); MADONNA (57%); SCOTT APPLEBY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



426 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Golan Heights Facing An Uncertain Future
The revival of the Israeli-Syrian peace effort after a nearly four-year stalemate has put the Golan Heights in a state of flux. Some Israeli settlers are digging in their heels, while others have started to think about what it would it take to dismantle three decades of Israeli life in the Golan Heights. 1
 
War Crimes Suspect Murdered
Zeljko Raznatovic, known as Arkan, a Serbian paramilitary leader wanted on war crimes charges in the Bosnian and Croatian wars, was shot and killed in the lobby of the Intercontinental Hotel in Belgrade. 1 

Chechnya Arms Charges
Georgian officials said that Russian troops have sold arms on the black market from one of their bases in neighboring Georgia and some of the weapons are being smuggled to rebels fighting in Chechnya. 12
 
Campaigning for Centrist Chile
The two candidates in Chile's presidential election on Sunday represent starkly opposite philosophies on paper. But on the campaign trail, they are both campaigning toward the middle to try to appeal to a new apolitical generation and to voters who reject political extremes. 6
 
France Pushes for AIDS Drugs
France is prodding the United Nations to find ways to make cheaper AIDS drugs available to poor countries, where treatment is beyond the means of most people who need it. 11
 
German Lassa Fever Death
A 23-year-old German woman whose infection with tropical Lassa fever has touched off a virus scare died at a hospital in Germany. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 16-27
 
As Primaries Move South, Black Votes May Help Gore
When the Democratic Presidential candidates finally withdraw from Iowa and New Hampshire, where the electorate is predominantly white, they will move quickly into Southern states There, Vice President Al Gore seems to enjoy a commanding advantage among black voters, who often play a decisive role. 1
 
In Miami, a Divide Exposed
Tune out the racket in Miami over the fate of the 6-year-old Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez and what emerges is a split among Cuban-Americans over trade and immigration policies, and fatigue with nostalgiafor pre-Castro Cuba and plots to reclaim the island from communism. 1
 
Gore Turns On Charm in Iowa
The ordinary Iowans who turn up to see Vice President Al Gore have often been startled by the candidate they encounter. Instead of finding a man as wooden as a giant Sequoia and about as capable of an engaging speech, they have often been surprised to find themselves wowed by Mr. Gore in his stump speeches. 22
 
Republicans Debate
Only nine days before the Iowa caucuses, Gov. George W. Bush's rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, led by Senator John McCain, attacked his credentials as a tax cutter and ridiculed his centerpiece plan to pare taxes by $483 billion. 18
 
New Police Chief Thrives
Up from Dublin by way of a street beat in the South Bronx and a prodigious rise to the No. 2 spot in the New York Police Department, John Timoney is obviously in control as he completes his second year as Philadelphia's police commissioner. 16
 
NEW YORK/REGION 29-35
 
Nuns Use Ad Pitch To Swell Their Ranks
One of the nation's largest orders of Roman Catholic nuns is using all the tools of the modern age to overcome a precipitous drop in the number of nuns in the United States. 1
 
One of Crack's Legacies
The sight of young men in wheelchairs has become part of the urban landscape. They are among the legacies of New York's crack epidemic a decade ago, and include the wholly innocent as well as the wholly criminal. 29
 
More Police Commanders Retiring
There was a surge in retirements by high-ranking officers in the Police Department last year that union officials say is threatening to deplete the force of many of its most skilled and experienced supervisors. 29
 
NEEDIEST CASES 30
 
OBITUARIES 36-37
 
Anne Devenney
The community organizer who helped keep the tidy, solid neighborhoods of the northwest Bronx from turning into another burned-out urban slum, she was 79. 37
 
Chess 35
 
Weather 35 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHILE (92%); SYRIA (91%); GEORGIA (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHILE (92%); SYRIA (91%); GEORGIA (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); IOWA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ARMS TRADE (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); POLITICS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (72%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MURDER (56%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



427 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Chechnya Arms Smuggling
The country that borders Chechnya says that Russian troops fighting in that secessionist region sold some of their weapons on the black market, and the arms are being smuggled back to Chechen rebels. PAGE 12
 
Croatia Resists Refugees
Almost five years after Croatia promised to allow refugees from the Yugoslav wars to return home, those who want to come back still face endless obstacles. PAGE 4 

Jaguars and Bucs Gain
Jacksonville overwhelmed the Miami Dolphins, 62-7, and Tampa Bay rallied to defeat the Washington Redskins, 14-13, in the National Football League playoffs. SPORTSSUNDAY
 
Radio on the Web
Radio is moving from the airwaves to the Internet -- and where that will lead it is anyone's guess. Plus, the spring film preview, three months of guilty pleasures. ARTS & LEISURE
 
Time With the Sioux
In "On the Rez," Ian Frazier observantly hangs out at the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota and returns with an enlarged vision of humanity; reviewed by Tracy Kidder. BOOK REVIEW
 
Schools Are Not the Answer
Education is being touted by politicians as the cure-all for poverty, but children are in school only so many hours of the day. MAGAZINE
 
Blue Skies, Sunshine States
Who says Southern California is all paved over? Dolphins and whales thrill Malibu campers, mountain lions prowl Orange County parkland, and sybarites loll about in the hills near San Diego. In Florida, Miami dining gets another makeover and Palm Beach is forever young, tan and blond. TRAVEL
 
Balance of Terror
Relations between India and Pakistan are near a low point. This time, both are nuclear powers. Wasn't mutual deterrence supposed to make things safer? WEEK IN REVIEW 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); 

COUNTRY: CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (57%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (83%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (83%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (83%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (83%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SMUGGLING (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CHILDREN (76%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); WILD CATS (56%); BOOK REVIEWS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



428 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Courting India in Hope Of Restarting Trade Talks

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Despite nuclear tensions and diplomatic false starts that have dogged United States relations with India in recent years, the Clinton administration plans to court India as an ally in trying to restart global trade talks that collapsed in Seattle last month.
The hope is that closer cooperation might help defuse disputes between rich and poor countries that undermined the Seattle meeting. 
 Few expect the United States and India, the world's two largest democracies, to forge a close friendship overnight, but administration officials hope that coming high-level visits can send the message that the rift between developing and developed countries was confined to the chaotic Seattle meeting and did not reflect a broader breakdown in globalization.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers will visit India next week for talks with senior Indian leaders on a range of international economic and financial issues, including the best way to restore confidence in the World Trade Organization. Mr. Summers will also pave the way for a visit to India by President Clinton, now tentatively scheduled for March, administration officials said. It will be the first time a sitting American president has visited India since Jimmy Carter made the trip in 1979.
"After Seattle, there's definitely an economic challenge in managing the integration between industrial and developing countries," Mr. Summers said before leaving for India today. "India has had a major voice from the developing country perspective. It's natural that the two largest democracies should consider ways in which integration can be managed."
Though the administration is playing down the possibility of tangible progress during Mr. Summers's trip, officials talk privately of hopes that they are laying the groundwork for a "quantum leap" in relations, forging a third-world/first-world democratic alliance that could potentially prove warmer and more stable than American ties with China and Russia.
Ideally, these officials say, diplomats from the two sides would jointly find ways to move globalization forward, a strategic dialogue that would go beyond the often testy bilateral talks on regional stability and nuclear proliferation in South Asia.
"We feel that if we can find a meeting of the minds with Delhi, that's a strong place to work the third world," an administration official said.
India, though also eager for better ties with the United States, seems less optimistic about a breakthrough in the short term. Some Indian officials are still smarting from what they characterized as American pressure tactics at the Seattle talks.
"Both sides agree that the time is ripe to create a more positive atmosphere," said Naresh Chandra, India's ambassador in Washington. "But I think the U.S. will find that things move much faster when we're not pushed."
The difficulty of working out a new relationship with India was on full display in Seattle. Apparently convinced that India might back the United States trade agenda and help break an impasse with other third world countries, the administration put on a full-court press.
Mr. Clinton, who visited the World Trade Organization negotiating session to give a lift to the talks, seated himself next to Murasoli Maran, India's commerce minister, at a business lunch. Mr. Clinton also phoned Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee during the negotiations, and Mr. Summers cajoled his Indian counterpart.
In the end, India stood four-square against the American negotiating position, deeply disappointing some American officials. India was among the developing countries that cried foul when the administration pushed hard to link new trade talks with labor rights, a position many developing countries viewed as a disguised effort to protect workers in wealthy countries from competition. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); DELHI, INDIA (58%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); WASHINGTON, USA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); DELHI, INDIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



429 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Push for Powerball: High Odds, but Don't Count It Out

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Would anyone turn down a lottery jackpot worth $124 million a year? Certainly not all those frenzied New Yorkers who flock to Connecticut for a shot at a bank-busting payout from the Powerball lottery.
And not Governor George E. Pataki either, even though by most accounts, he is not a betting man himself. 
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican, lobbied again this week to bring Powerball to New York even though a similar effort last year failed to win support in either the Republican Senate or the Democratic-led Assembly. His proposed budget counts on $124 million in revenue from ticket sales in a multistate lottery game that would, at least on paper, support education initiatives.
But so far, the Legislature has resisted buying into multistate lotteries, putting New York at odds with its neighbors, Connecticut and New Jersey, and a growing number of places across the country where sky-high jackpots generate revenue for everything from new schools to highways. Indeed, in recent years, lawmakers have repeatedly rebuffed Mr. Pataki's overtures to expand gambling in the state.
Mr. Pataki's proposal for a multistate lottery is part of a running budgetary numbers game in the back rooms of the Capitol, where lawmakers hold out for their pet programs and then shuffle around millions -- even billions -- of dollars to pay for everything. During the 1995 budget crisis, for instance, Mr. Pataki won approval for a Quick Draw lottery game from reluctant legislators with the promise of new revenue. In the last four years, Quick Draw, a keno-style game that is played on video monitors in bars and delis, has generated more than $470 million for the state.
But last year, the law creating Quick Draw got caught up in a budget battle and expired on March 31. Although lawmakers eventually resurrected it, they passed on his request to expand Quick Draw into more bars and delis. And in 1997, they turned down a constitutional amendment that Mr. Pataki backed to allow casino gambling in the state.
Mr. Pataki's odds at getting Powerball this year may not have improved much as a resilient economy pumps dollars into the state's coffers and lawmakers are loath to alienate the powerful base of conservative and religious voters fiercely opposed to gambling.
Still, no one is counting Mr. Pataki out just yet.
A multistate lottery would provide an influx of new money for education programs, which are the cornerstone of the governor's proposed budget and potentially the most divisive issue between Republicans and Democrats this year.
"I'm not going to discount anything," declared the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the powerful Republican from the Albany area, when asked whether he would support the governor's proposal.
Although New York has the highest lottery sales in the nation, those sales have flagged in recent years, in large part because of fierce competition from multistate lotteries and casinos. For example, tickets sales for the 34-year-old New York lottery declined 7.5 percent to $3.69 billion in the 1999 fiscal year from $3.99 billion in 1997.
Every year, countless New Yorkers jettison state loyalty and take their dollars to Connecticut in search of $1 Powerball tickets. Powerball, which is sponsored by 20 states and the District of Columbia, has become wildly popular since it began eight years ago, and its huge jackpots can make a million-dollar payoff seems downright paltry. The Powerball jackpot starts at $10 million and climbed as high as $296 million in August 1998.
But critics say the high stakes are addictive and cause people to waste money on something they have little chance of winning. "People have only so much money," said Senator Frank Padavan, a Republican from Queens who opposes expansion of the lottery. "When people gamble, they're not spending their money on goods and services which create jobs and income for the local government."
Just what are the odds of hitting the Powerball jackpot, anyway? Try 1 in 80 million (compared with, say, 1 in 18 million for the New York State Lottery). George Wandrak, who oversees lottery operations in Connecticut, said the long odds don't drive away the players -- in fact, quite the opposite. His state added Powerball in 1995 after years of waning lottery ticket sales. Last year, Powerball tickets raked in $124.5 million in sales in Connecticut, or 14.3 percent of the state's total revenue from gambling, including casinos and dog tracks.
"As with any product, there are choices -- you have Coke, classic Coke, diet Coke, caffeine-free Coke, caffeine-free diet Coke," Mr. Wandrak said. "The lottery gets a bit stale, so we try to freshen up the game and give them what they want -- higher jackpots."
Connecticut has sold three winning tickets in the Powerball jackpot -- including the $10.3 million windfall that went to Sergio and Elena Martini, of Brewster, N.Y., in January 1997. Mr. Wandrak estimated that 10 to 15 percent of his state's Powerball tickets are bought by New Yorkers and other out-of-staters.
Since multistate lotteries were introduced in the mid-1980's, state officials have come to depend on the high-profile games to plug holes in their budgets. They typically share operating and advertising costs for the lottery, and then keep a part of the proceeds from ticket sales. In Powerball, for instance, the state keeps half and the rest goes back for prizes.
Thirty-one states currently take part in one of three multistate lotteries, said David Gale, executive director of the North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries. Last year, these games helped propel ticket sales for all lotteries nationwide to a record $36.5 billion.
New Jersey, for instance, joined its first multistate lottery in May after a slump in its Pick 6 Lotto sales. Since then, lottery players have spent more than $126 million for a crack at the Big Game, which is also sponsored by Michigan, Maryland, Massachusetts, Virginia, Illinois and Georgia.
Powerball remains the undisputed king of lotteries with average ticket sales of $1.2 billion a year, said Charles Strutt, executive director of the Multi-State Lottery Association, which oversees the game for the sponsoring states. Mr. Strutt predicted that New York, with its 18 million residents, would fatten the jackpots even more.
"That would be very good for the game," said Mr. Strutt, who has already been in touch with New York lottery officials. "It would increase sales in every state."
But no bets yet, please. Almost as soon as Mr. Pataki revived his proposal for the multistate lottery last week, his opponents were loudly protesting what they described as a major expansion of gambling.
Thomas Grey, a United Methodist minister and executive director of the National Coalition Against Gambling Expansion, said he was surprised and disappointed that Governor Pataki had again raised the issue.
"In good economic times, with no one clamoring for it, this seems to go against what other politicians are doing," he said. "In an election year, to vote to expand gambling will only cost you voters."
And Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the influential Democrat from Lower Manhattan, could barely wait to express his disapproval.
"I'm once again troubled by the re-emergence of the Powerball lottery," he said at a news conference in the Capitol building after the governor unveiled his budget.
Even Senator Bruno, Mr. Pataki's staunchest ally in the Legislature, said that he was not optimistic about its chances.
Without endorsing the governor's proposal, Mr. Bruno pointed out only that another source of money would have to be found if the multistate lottery were scratched.
"You either cut something or do something to replace the revenue," he said.
But other lawmakers were not swayed by that argument.
"That's always a straw man," Senator Padavan said. "We're talking about a $77 billion budget -- this amount is infinitesimal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers outside a store in Greenwich, Conn., in July 1998, when the Powerball lottery reached a record jackpot. Many cross state lines to play the game, which Gov. George E. Pataki hopes to bring to New York. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN SENATE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LOTTERIES (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GAMING (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); APPROVALS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); CASINOS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



430 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 27;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: F.A.A. Reviews Differing Rules for Business Aviation

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
The runway is 4,300 feet long, and the pilot's manual says the corporate jet needs 4,000 feet. Can it land there?
That depends on how the plane is owned, and even federal regulators say the rules governing questions like these no longer make sense because of widespread changes in the financial arrangements that people make when they fly in business jets.
Under a decades-old rule, charter operators follow one set of guidelines, and corporate jets follow another. But a new class of owners has suddenly blossomed that does not fit either category, and that is causing an uproar in aviation safety circles. 
 Charter flights -- air taxis, in effect -- must operate under strict, airline-style rules. Charter clients are not expected to know enough to make their own decisions about runway lengths, weather or how tired a pilot might be. And the plane must be able to land without using more than 60 percent of the runway's length.
The company plane that ferries executives, on the other hand, has looser rules; the owner is supposed to know more about safety, and to take on more responsibility.
But in the last few years, 1,600 companies or individuals have bought "fractional shares" in business jets, an ownership arrangement akin to buying a week at a time-share condominium. And no one is sure what rules should apply to them.
The Federal Aviation Administration, scrambling to keep up, has set up an industry advisory panel to draft new rules by the end of the month. Agency officials are determined to change the safety rules for business jets now, and to stay on top of the new economic arrangements, before a high-profile crash forces them to act.
People in the industry say that the crash of such a plane would hurt business aviation, even planes operated as charters.
Shared operations now rival airlines, in the number of planes and pilots. Some say they adhere to airline-style rules, but they do not get airline-style oversight from the Federal Aviation Administration, and critics say that some operators, especially smaller ones, may take advantage of looser rules. Those rules include these:
*Charter and airline pilots may work 14 hours a day, including no more than 10 hours at the controls; corporate pilots have no limits.
*Charter pilots must have a weather report from the ground before they may begin an approach; corporate pilots may begin the approach, take a look and make their own judgment. Corporate pilots also have looser limits on weather acceptable for takeoffs.
*Charter operators must have a maintenance plan approved by the F.A.A., with work done by mechanics screened for drugs; corporate pilots may use any licensed mechanic.
To some, the new type of ownership has meant more flexibility in flying. Mark Fruchter, an air charter operator in Reading, Pa., had two clients who wanted to charter his Beechjet to Hilton Head, S.C., which has a 4,000-foot runway. He flies that plane there with his family, but his customers were stymied by the rule about runway length. Now they are fractional owners of an eight-passenger corporate jet offered by one of Mr. Fruchter's competitors, and make the flight routinely.
To others, the looser rules may have brought too much freedom. A fractionally owned Learjet 60, operated by Bombardier Aerospace on a flight from Dulles International Airport outside Washington, had brake trouble while landing at Hyannis, Mass., and ran off the runway, destroying the plane. No one was hurt.
The crash is still under investigation, but an F.A.A. official studying safety issues for corporate aviation pointed out that if the flight had been a charter, it would never have been allowed to land at Hyannis, because the runway is shorter than the length called for under charter rules.
To charter a plane, said Jack Olcott, the president of the National Business Aviation Association, all you need is "a credit card and a Yellow Pages." Such people should be protected from risk, Mr. Olcott said. People or corporations who own their own planes are much more sophisticated, and have earned the right to decide what is an acceptable level of safety, he added.
"Your lawyers get very deeply involved," he said. "As an owner, you're liable for that airplane even though you're not in it. Nobody goes into fractional ownership with the same degree of naivete that they book a charter flight."
But others in the industry say that people who used to charter planes but now own fractional shares to fly 100 or 200 hours a year probably know little about the details of operating the aircraft. In fact, Bombardier, which sells fractional shares under a program called Flexjet, advertises to potential customers, "Leave the details to us."
Corporate-type aviation, whether by charter or under fractional ownership, is extremely safe. No passengers have died in fractionals in seven years, and other than the Payne Stewart crash last year, no deaths have occurred on charter trips in the period.
And the web of rules about safety, financing and ownership can have perverse complications. A company bringing Mr. Stewart to Dallas said it would pay for his flight. Even though he was a fractional owner of a Learjet, he could not use it for hire -- it would then have to meet the stricter rules for charter operations. So Mr. Stewart chartered a different plane, which crashed.
The advisory group's meetings have been bitter at times, participants say, with huge financial stakes apparent to all sides. Charter operators contend that management companies for fractional owners have prospered under looser regulations. Fractional advocates say they actually operate at a high level of safety, with potential purchasers often sending in auditors to evaluate safety programs that are in many ways stricter than those used by corporate flight departments or airlines.
Some participants say that the panel is developing a hybrid rule, borrowing some sections from the rule on charters and airlines, and some from the section on private planes. Whether this will pass muster with the F.A.A. remains to be seen; some officials there have said they would be uneasy about adopting the lowest common denominator.
But all sides agree that the way the rules are finally written and put into effect will be an important test for the industry and the regulators, who often find themselves racing to catch up with new economic models for aviation that have an unexpected impact on safety.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about safety rules for business aviation misstated the damage sustained by a Learjet 60 when it went off the runway while landing at Hyannis, Mass. The plane was extensively damaged, not destroyed.


GRAPHIC: Graph: "DETAILS -- One Plane, Many Owners" shows the number of companies or individuals owning "fractional shares" of corporate airplanes from 1987 to 1999. (Source: National Business Aviation Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: READING, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BUSINESS AVIATION ASSOCIATION (56%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); READING, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); WEATHER (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



431 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7456 words

HEADLINE: What No School Can Do

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. His study of schoolwide reform, "Better by Design," was published last month by the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation.

 BODY:
Last fall, the New York State Education Department released the results of a fourth-grade math test and eighth-grade math and language tests. It will come as no surprise to hear that the numbers for students in New York City were dreadful. About two-thirds of city eighth graders failed the English language arts test, and about three-quarters failed in math; half the fourth graders failed the math test. The results provided fuel for those who felt that New York City schools are underfinanced, that the city uses too many uncertified teachers, that academic standards are low, that junior high schools are neglected and that the tests themselves are unfair. There's some merit in all these notions. What was not said, however, was the obvious: that the city districts that performed poorly, like those that performed well, scored almost exactly as the socioeconomic status of the children in them would have predicted. You could have predicted the fourth-grade test scores of all but one of the city's 32 districts merely by knowing the percentage of students in a given district who qualified for a free lunch. Only a few dozen of the city's 675 elementary schools scored well despite high poverty rates. In other words, good schools aren't doing that much good, and bad schools aren't doing that much harm.
This is the case in virtually every big city in the country. Though over the past 35 years we have poured billions of dollars into inner-city schools, and though we have fiddled with practically everything you could think to fiddle with, we have done almost nothing to raise the trajectory of ghetto children. This is a fact, but it is one of those painful facts that it seems better to ignore. Why say anything that could discourage the children, parents and teachers who so desperately need encouragement? Why give aid and comfort to the opponents of high standards? After all, we know that some schools succeed where others fail. We know that some reforms work better than others. In a recently published book, "Choosing Equality," Joseph P. Viteritti, a professor of public policy at New York University, describes the failure of one innovation after another before embarking on a defense of the one reform he believes in, school choice. Or perhaps, if the answer isn't choice, it's something else. Surely there must be some way of making a difference in the lives of poor children. 
 Indeed, you can't spend much time in the schools and not believe in the efficacy of reform. In the past few years, I have visited dozens of schools, almost all of them serving inner-city children and most of them exemplary in one way or another. I have been to charter schools where concerned parents and educators have wrested control of the classrooms from ineffective bureaucracies, and also to schools with effective leaders and schools with traditional curricula and schools with "less is more" curricula and schools with "multiple intelligences" teaching styles. The good news is that we know more about what works than we did even a decade ago; should what is left of the ideological fog surrounding education evaporate, we might even agree on a better mousetrap.
But how much better? How powerful can this one institution be in the face of the kind of disadvantages that so many ghetto children bring with them to the schoolhouse door, and return to at home? In "An American Imperative," a minutely detailed study of educational inequality published in 1995, Scott Miller, a scholar now affiliated with the College Board, wrote that while "some strategies for investing resources in disadvantaged children are substantially more productive than others . . . there is little evidence that any existing strategy can close more than a fraction of the overall achievement gap" separating children with low socioeconomic status from their wealthier, largely suburban counterparts.
The idea that school, by itself, cannot cure poverty is hardly astonishing, but it is amazing how much of our political discourse is implicitly predicated on the notion that it can. The national debate over entrenched poverty virtually ended with welfare reform. We now speak of the inner-city poor as if they were a remote tribe that has not yet been exposed to the miracle of the marketplace. In November, President Clinton was able to announce his antipoverty initiative jointly with Speaker Dennis Hastert because the plan was so vague and modest -- it came down to encouraging private investment in the inner cities -- that the G.O.P. was happy to sign off on it. But the same Congressional Republicans who oppose on principal virtually all federal programs focused on the urban poor also voted to add $2 billion to President Clinton's request for Title I, the main source of federal funds for schools in high-poverty areas. George W. Bush has come out in favor of increased spending by the federal Department of Education. In recent years conservatives have come to play a critical role in the debate over inner-city schools; indeed, school reform is the one type of social engineering with which conservatives feel comfortable.
Although education is fundamentally a local issue, and national politicians can do very little about it, we will probably hear a great deal more about the schools as we enter the primary season and the presidential campaign. Bush is running as a "compassionate conservative," which is to say that he cares about the poor and will not simply consign them to the whim of the marketplace. What this means in practice, however, is that he believes in school reform. Last fall, Bush seemed to be visiting an inner-city school every week; in his speeches he returns constantly to the virtues of market-driven school reforms like vouchers and charter schools, as well as to the need for rigorous academic standards for high-poverty schools.
Al Gore takes a very different view of the matter -- although he, like Bush, thinks education is the main answer to poverty. Gore is in favor of high standards -- if any national figure isn't, he hasn't stuck his head up yet -- but he also wants to spend more money to fix crumbling school buildings and to hire more teachers to decrease class size. The Democrats say that the current system can be made to work with the right incentives, while Republicans think the system has to be forced to change through competition. Though largely agreeing with Gore, Bill Bradley has at least begun to create a platform that places school reform within the context of broader antipoverty policies. But no candidate can, it appears, afford to reckon with the seemingly intractable nature of inner-city poverty.
It is hard to think of a more satisfying solution to poverty than education. School reform involves relatively little money and no large-scale initiatives, asks practically nothing of the nonpoor and is accompanied by the ennobling sensation that comes from expressing faith in the capacity of the poor to overcome disadvantage by themselves. Conversely, the idea that schools by themselves can't cure poverty not only sounds like an un-American vote of no confidence in our capacity for self-transformation but also seems to flirt with the racialist theories expressed by Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein, who argued in "The Bell Curve" that educational inequality is rooted in biological inequality.
An alternative explanation, of course, is that educational inequality is rooted in economic problems and social pathologies too deep to be overcome by school alone. And if that's true, of course, then there's every reason to think about the limits of school, and to think about the other institutions we might have to mobilize to solve the problem. We might even ask ourselves whether there isn't something disingenuous and self-serving in our professed faith in the omnipotence of school.
The idea that bad schools perpetuate poverty, and that good schools can go a long way toward curing it, is quite new and, like most current ideas about entrenched poverty, dates to the civil rights era. One provision of the 1964 Civil Rights Act mandated the publication of a survey "concerning the lack of availability of educational opportunities for individuals by reason of race, color, religion or national origin in public educational institutions."
The sociologist James Coleman was asked to head up the survey project. The implicit assumption behind the survey, an assumption that Coleman said at the time he shared, was that black children were failing because the segregated schools they attended were grossly underfinanced. Coleman found that black students were, in fact, highly segregated, but he also concluded that resources like school libraries and laboratories were distributed more equally than was widely believed and, far more startling, that "differences in school facilities and curriculum, which are the major variables by which attempts are made to improve schools, are so little related to achievement levels of students that, with few exceptions, their effect fails to appear even in a survey of this magnitude." Coleman found that everything schools did accounted for only 5 to 35 percent of the variation in students' academic performances, though he did find that the figures for disadvantaged students were at the higher end of the scale. He concluded that "the inequalities imposed on children by their home, neighborhood and peer environment are carried along to become the inequalities with which they confront adult life at the end of school."
This was, if true, astonishing and deeply unsettling news. Nobody believes in school the way Americans do, and no one is more tantalized by its transformative powers. School is central to the American myth of self-transcendence, whether it's Thomas Jefferson's seedbed of the republican spirit, or the one-room schoolhouse that propelled Abe Lincoln out of frontier backwardness, or those teeming junior high schools in Brooklyn that served as the melting pot for three generations of children from Russia and Italy and Ireland. In the national myth -- and of course not only in myth -- school has the miraculous power of leveling inequalities even as it lifts everyone. And by the time Coleman came along we had come to expect far more of school than we ever had before, because we were firmly entrenched in a meritocratic culture in which the most important rewards were decided by school success. Coleman's argument that schools essentially passed along inequality was simply unacceptable, and largely ignored.
In the 1960's, the nation embarked upon a vast and utterly unprecedented national experiment in the use of schooling to alleviate poverty. Of all Washington's undertakings, the most popular, and the most romantic, was the Head Start program for impoverished preschool-age children, which continues to this day to be thought of as the one Great Society program that really worked. Head Start began in 1965, and President Johnson immediately fell in love with the imagery of little children playing with scissors and glue; he ramped the program up within the first year from $18 million to $50 million to $150 million, and he bragged that Head Start was raising children's I.Q. scores 10 points. Researchers have known from the virtual outset of the program that Head Start had no effect at all on I.Q. scores. And although beneficiaries were somewhat less likely than nonbeneficiaries to be left back, or placed in special-education classes, whatever gains children made on test scores faded out within a year or two. A 1985 study by the Department of Health and Human Services concluded that "in the long run, cognitive and socioemotional test scores of former Head Start students do not remain superior to those of disadvantaged students who did not attend Head Start." A 1995 study found no difference between siblings who did and did not attend Head Start.
It was also in 1965 that Congress passed Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which provided federal funds to local school districts with high concentrations of impoverished students. Title I now reaches 10 million children, including one in every five first graders. Over the years about $100 billion has been dispensed through the program; the annual budget is now $7.7 billion, though Congress just voted to increase the amount to $9.9 billion. Until the law was amended in 1994, most school districts used their Title I money to offer additional instruction, mostly in reading, to students who were falling behind; in effect, students took an extra half-hour class in reading every day, generally using the same methods that had already failed. The Title I results are even more unequivocal than those for Head Start. A 1997 study conducted for the Department of Education concluded that "there were no differences in growth" between students who did and did not receive Title I assistance.
Finally, it was in the late 1960's and early 70's that desegregation moved decisively from the courts to the schools. Throughout the South, where Jim Crow had reigned, desegregation was a matter of simple justice. But in the North and Midwest, where whites as well as blacks had to be bused, and often a very long way, it was critical to demonstrate a significant benefit to black students to justify the disruption and discontent. The Supreme Court had been persuaded by the views of the psychologist Kenneth Clark that desegregation could help black children overcome the stigma of inferiority conferred by segregation. James Coleman had, in fact, found an "integration effect," which he explained by suggesting that black students in largely white schools experienced "a greater sense of control" over their own destinies than students in segregated schools. But most subsequent studies found that the effect was only a modest one. A 1975 survey of the best-designed studies of integration's effects found that more than half disclosed "no significant difference" between segregated and nonsegregated black students. The Harvard sociologist Christopher Jencks concluded in his 1972 book, "Inequality," that desegregation could close the academic gap by no more than 10 to 20 percent -- which struck him as too small an effect to trump the issue of parental preference. Desegregation has faded as a remedy in part because many parents, including black parents, do not feel that the disruption is worth the gain.
Head Start, Title I and a host of other programs have gone a long way toward proving one of Coleman's central claims, which is that money does not buy educational equality. Although the premise of many a crusading volume, including Jonathan Kozol's "Savage Inequalities," is that ghetto schools have been allowed to rot, many of the most catastrophically failing school districts, like Newark's, spend far more money per student than do middle-class communities nearby. Labor economists have had a field day proving that school spending is not correlated with school achievement. And that desegregation never had nearly the academic effect its advocates hoped for shows that equality of educational opportunity is much more elusive than it once seemed to be.
Of course, we are talking about an enormous social experiment that is quite new; it is scarcely surprising that the first round of educational reforms didn't work very well. Thus, 35 years ago, when he compiled "Equality of Educational Opportunity," Coleman naturally measured the resources that were easy to measure and that were commonly assumed to matter -- physics labs, academic curricula, teacher qualifications and so forth. It turns out, however, that some of the resources that he didn't measure, and perhaps couldn't have measured, are the ones that do make a difference. In 1981, Coleman and two colleagues published a study titled "Public and Private Schools," in which they argued that private and parochial schools do a better job than the public schools do, especially with impoverished students. They attributed the difference to higher expectations and a better disciplinary environment. In the mid-70's, an education scholar named Ronald Edmonds looked for the common elements among inner-city schools that exceeded expectations. The "effective schools" movement, which sprang from Edmonds's research, emphasized the importance of strong leadership and an unambiguous focus on academic achievement -- findings that were not, at bottom, incompatible with Coleman's.
The schools that Coleman studied in the mid-60's differed from one another very little; now, by contrast, we live in an era of rampant educational experimentation. There is hardly anything more powerful in the literature of social policy than accounts of individual schools or school districts or pedagogical systems that defy the odds in the worst neighborhoods. The titles alone convey their inspirational quality: "Miracle in East Harlem," "The Power of Their Ideas," "Every Child Every School." School reform suffers, even more than other forms of social intervention, from the problem of the ideal case. It turns out that almost anything can work when instituted by a dedicated principal supported by committed teachers. Jaime Escalante, the teacher celebrated in the movie "Stand and Deliver," prodded his impoverished Chicano students to extraordinary achievements on their Advanced Placement math tests, but any method that depends on a Jaime Escalante is no method at all.
There is an overwhelming tendency in the public schools toward regression to the mean, and not only because charismatic leaders are in short supply. Thus, "Miracle in East Harlem" presents the moving story of administrators who, beginning in the mid-70's, produced an "overwhelming transformation" in America's most famously blighted neighborhood by freeing schools from bureaucracy and forcing them to compete for students, creating "schools and a school system that put children first." The authors conclude that "the revolution of District Four can become the path of the future for our nation's schools." Certainly public-school choice is a good idea, but since District Four finished 24th out of 32 New York City districts last year on the state's fourth-grade reading test -- slightly worse than its poverty ranking would have predicted -- either the approach itself or its application is less than revolutionary.
It is true that we know far more than we used to about what does and doesn't work. But we are only beginning to figure out how to make something work on a meaningful scale. The most intriguing development in recent years is the rise of "comprehensive," or "schoolwide," reform, terms that refer to models for change that incorporate a coherent and self-consistent vision of pedagogy, curriculum and structure -- a replicable, purpose-built school. There are now two dozen such models, many of which stake their reputations on their abilities to improve the performance of inner-city children drastically. More than 9,000 schools have adopted one of the designs. The most popular model among inner-city schools, and the most successful, is a reading program called Success for All, which has expanded into a whole-school reform known as Roots and Wings. The premise of Success for All is that reading is the key to success in school, and that the best way to teach reading, or any other basic skill, is to focus relentlessly on "prevention and early intervention" rather than on remediation. I recently spent a day at P.S. 159, a Success for All school in the supremely devastated neighborhood of East New York, in Brooklyn.
The day began with a minutely choreographed 90-minute reading class. The combined first- and second-grade "Roots" class is the heart of the design; these children are expected to gain proficiency in decoding skills by the end of the year. Carolyn Skolnick's class was reading a "shared book" about skating. This is a specially designed text that has the full narrative for the teacher and a separate, phonetically controlled text for the students; over time, the teacher's "scaffolding" drops away, and the children read all of the text. Skolnick read a line, and the children repeated it. Teacher and students read several pages in this fashion. Next the class practiced sounds -- phonics, to use the term of abuse. Then the children shifted to vocabulary words designed to reinforce one particular sound -- dived," "beside," "ride," "time." Skolnick pointed, and her students recited. The class practiced letter recognition. Then the children paired off and took turns reading the story, the listener helping the reader over rough patches. Virtually all of the children could read the story. Skolnick handed out clipboards, and the children wrote down the names of the characters and described the setting, the "problem" and the "solution" of the story. Almost all of the children were at least minimally competent at this, too.
Success for All is about as close as schooling has gotten to the level of medicine -- to matching a treatment to an affliction. But it is a treatment, not a cure. Five years ago, 39 percent of the children at P.S. 159 were reading at grade level; after four years of Success for All, the figure has risen to 47 percent. Fifty-four percent of the kids failed the fourth-grade reading test last year. That was better than the district average, at 66 percent, but worse than the statewide average. Studies of Success for All show "strong evidence of positive effect on student achievement," according to a recent report, but it's important to keep in mind the size of those effects. Other types of comprehensive reform have shown slighter effects, or none at all.
Since we don't know how much school can be made to matter, we should work to reform schools as if there were no limit to their powers to compensate for disadvantage. But we also have to reckon with how modest the accomplishments of reform have been, especially with regard to the gap between white students and poor (though not necessarily poor) black students. Although black students now earn high-school diplomas at virtually the same rate as whites -- an extraordinary achievement in itself -- they are enrolling in, and graduating from, college at a much lower rate. Despite significant gains, blacks are still scoring about 200 points below whites on College Boards. And despite improvements in reading scores, the average black 17-year-old is reading at a 13-year-old level. According to one study, the racial gap in language scores approximately doubles between the time a black student enters school and the time she leaves.
There is reason to believe that schools can make some kind of difference, but right now they are not making nearly enough.
The failure of school reform to make a significant dent in educational inequality tells us something about the nature of school, and something about the circumstances that produce the inequality in the first place. School, at least as we understand it now, is not as powerful an institution as it seems. Most children do not encounter school until age 5, unless they happen to be in an unusually rigorous preschool program. Anyone who has ever reared a child knows how immense, and lasting, are the effects of those first five years. Nor is school quite as all-encompassing as it seems: academic work typically takes up only about half the time that children spend in school. And whom you hang out with, both during and after school, can matter more than what happens in the classroom. One reason so many apparently effective school interventions fade over time, according to Kenneth Wong, a professor of education policy at the University of Chicago, is that while small children are responsive to adult authority figures, adolescents pay more attention to peers.
The question of exactly what it is that inner-city culture does to children is painful and immensely contentious. The success of those Russian and Italian and Irish immigrants three-quarters of a century ago, and of many Asian and Hispanic immigrants today, makes it plain that the issue has less to do with poverty as such than with culture -- with conscious values as well as unconscious behaviors. It was Kenneth Clark, who is black, who first popularized the phrase "the pathology of the ghetto," in "Dark Ghetto," published in 1965. Clark wrote bluntly about how "the stigma of racial inferiority" leads to self-destructive behavior, including violence, alcohol and drug abuse, family breakdown -- every social pathology save suicide. But Clark understood this damage as emotional and psychological, not cognitive. Thus, he said that desegregation, by removing the stigma, could lead to a huge improvement in black academic performance. And he railed against what he called the "cultural deprivation" argument, insisting that there was no reason "a low economic status or absence of books in the home or 'cognitive deficit"' should "interfere with the ability of a child to learn to read."
Clark did not reckon with the cognitive harm done to children who grow up in a world without books or even stimulating games, whose natural curiosity is regularly squashed, who are isolated from the world beyond their neighborhood. A study carried out in the early 80's at the University of Kansas reached the almost unfathomable conclusion that 3-year-olds in families with professional parents used more-extensive vocabularies in daily interactions than did mothers on welfare -- not to mention the children of those mothers. Here is a gap far greater than even the gulf in income that separates the middle class from the poor; it is scarcely surprising that Coleman found that the effects of home and community blotted out almost all those of school.
Social scientists use the expressions "human capital" and "social capital" to describe and quantify these effects. "Human capital" was invented by the economist Theodore Schultz in 1960 to refer to all those human capacities, developed by education, that can be used productively -- the capacity to deal in abstractions, to recognize and adhere to rules, to use language at a high level. Human capital, like other forms of capital, accumulates over generations; it is a thing that parents "give" to their children through their upbringing, and that children then successfully deploy in school, allowing them to bequeath more human capital to their own children.
"Social capital" refers to the benefits of strong social bonds. Coleman defined the term to take in "the norms, the social networks, the relationships between adults and children that are of value for the children's growing up." The support of a strong community helps the child accumulate social capital in myriad ways; in the inner city, where institutions have disintegrated, and mothers often keep children locked inside out of fear for their safety, social capital hardly exists. Coleman consistently pointed out that we now expect the school to provide all the child's human and social capital -- an impossibility.
A great deal of social science has recently gone into explaining how differences in human and social capital account for the gap that exists before children even arrive in school. In a finding published in 1998 in "The Black-White Test Score Gap," edited by Christopher Jencks and a colleague, Meredith Phillips, a group of five researchers examined the 17-point difference between black and white 5- and 6-year-olds on something called the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test. Equalizing black and white parental income, they concluded, would account for only about one point of the difference, since black children scored far lower than whites from a comparable economic background. Equalizing parents' years of schooling would add only another point or two (though equalizing "quality" of schooling would add a bit more). Between half and two-thirds of the gap, however, could be erased if you could address a wide array of socioeconomic factors that accumulate over generations -- the size of the household the child's mother grew up in, the mother's sense of control over her life, the child's birth weight. The single largest chunk, accounting for 3.5 points, is "middle-class parenting practices" -- reading to your children, taking them on trips, using reason rather than the flat edict.
I recently asked Edmund W. Gordon, the first research director of Head Start and perhaps the foremost black psychologist of his generation, what he concluded about the 35-year effort to conquer poverty through the schools. Gordon, a diminutive, bearded man of painstaking precision, said: "Back in the 60's, there was desegregation, there was the War on Poverty, there was Head Start -- and most of us really thought that we were going to do it. I must say that I no longer believe that. I think that schools can be much more powerful, but I don't think they can reverse all the ill effects of a starkly disadvantaged status in society. If you go back and look at Coleman's stuff, and Bourdieu's" -- Pierre Bourdieu, the French social theorist -- they're talking about human and cultural capital development. It seems to me that the logic of that argument is that schools work for people who have those varieties of capital to invest in it. And if they don't, then schooling is going to be greatly handicapped."
In recent years, Gordon has become preoccupied with the "academic underproductivity" of middle-class black students, which he attributes largely to the difference in child-rearing habits and peer culture between the black and white middle classes. These are forms of private behavior that are both overwhelmingly important and extremely difficult to reach through conscious acts of intervention. Gordon is working with black organizations "to make it the thing to do in the black community that you spend your time reading to your kids, that you take your kids to visit colleges, that you go to the library." He recognizes that the same problems apply, with vastly greater intensity, to impoverished black families, but he doesn't think exhortations will do any good. Moreover, he said: "I'm 78 years old. I want to do something where I can have some chance of success in the next 10 years. I don't know if we can do anything in that time frame at the lower economic levels."
Nowadays we read the Coleman report as a "conservative" document, dashing cold water on the faith that we can diminish inequality through conscious effort, and thus end the isolation of inner-city children. But Coleman was suggesting not that we should learn to live with inequality but that we will have to look to institutions other than schools to provide human and social capital. In their review of Coleman's findings, Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Frederick Mosteller, then both professors at Harvard, made this point explicitly. They cited the psychologist Jerome Kagan to the effect that "the differences in language and number competence between lower- and middle-class children" is "awesome" by first grade; the critical task is thus to change "the ecology of the lower-class child in order to increase the probability that he will be more successful in attaining normative skills."
How do you alter that ecology? Perhaps, they suggested, you could do more by raising families' occupational levels or wage rates than by direct spending on school. Christopher Jencks, in "Inequality," adopted the more radical position that if school was only passing on and legitimizing inequality, the only solution was a socialist-style redistribution of income.
A great deal has, of course, changed since then. For one thing, at the time, Jencks argued that raising blacks' test-score performance wouldn't make much of a difference because the labor markets were so biased against blacks that academic success hardly paid off. By 1998, in "The Black-White Test Score Gap," Jencks stated that for blacks, as for whites, cognitive achievement largely determines professional success; eliminating the gap would in fact solve the problem of persistent black poverty. And Jencks now says, as he did not before, that some things schools do can effect educational inequality -- but only just so far. And so, like Moynihan and Mosteller, he turns his attention to the child's ecology, though he no longer holds out much hope for large-scale social change. "Broadly speaking," Jencks and Meredith Phillips wrote in "The Black-White Test Score Gap," "there are two ways of improving 3- and 4-year-olds' cognitive skills: we can change their preschool experiences and we can change their home experiences. Changing preschools is less important but easier than changing homes."
Preschool is a device for extending the reach of school downward toward the time when the cognitive gaps are beginning to form -- a means of distributing human capital to children who grow up with little to none. That few Head Start programs have actually done this may say more about the design of Head Start than about the inherent limitations of preschool. In fact, several studies of "model" programs -- which typically start from birth, last all day, hire professional teachers and offer a wide range of services -- show large and lasting effects, drastically reducing placement in special education and being held back and boosting academic achievement. And a long-term study of the Abecedarian Project in North Carolina, a preschool program financed largely by the federal government, shows that children who received just such early preparation were far more likely than a control group to graduate from high school and attend college and got higher grades and better scores on cognitive tests.
Last fall, I spent a day at a preschool program in Vineland, a small town in southern New Jersey, where the population is for the most part Hispanic and black. Impact, which is largely state financed, has several advantages that would be hard to reproduce in East New York. The school sits among a series of low brick buildings in the middle of a campus setting; everything is clean and fresh. What's more, only a little more than half of the 239 students are poor enough to qualify for a free lunch, because working-class and some middle-class parents are delighted to have their kids spend the day in such a salubrious setting. Nevertheless, what's really striking about Impact, at least if you have been to a typical Head Start program, is how appealing the preschool classes look: the teachers are well-spoken professionals, the classes are small and richly stocked with books and art materials and computers and the kids move purposefully among activities. These were classrooms, not nursery schools. Even in the child-care center, each group of children has a teacher who is certified in early-childhood education.
Impact is not so much a preschool as a multipurpose social-service agency, offering year-round, all-day child care from birth, adult literacy programs, episodic health care, including mental health, and education and counseling for pregnant teenagers. It absorbs a larger portion of a child's life than a school does, and it makes a far more ambitious attempt to offer itself as a kind of alternative community. Impact has contracted with the Vineland public schools to take teenagers in the early stage of pregnancy and give them one year of schooling in small classes as well as intensive instruction in child-rearing, nutrition and health care. The girls I met represent the middle stage of the typical downward spiral of disadvantage: themselves often born to teenage mothers, they had already been left back once or twice, and some were on their second child, by a different boyfriend from the first.
Paula Bender, who runs Impact, says: "We're in the business of trying to break cycles. A teen mother comes in. If she had stayed in her old school, she probably would have dropped out. Her child might have had a low birth weight. She can come here and get nutrition, prenatal care and education. Then we're going to take care of her baby, and make sure that any developmental lags are diagnosed and treated. The mothers are going on to high school, and we have the children from birth."
Programs like Impact are very expensive: Bender says she is spending $8,000 to $10,000 a child, which is at least double the cost of the Head Start program down the road. Al Gore has proposed spending $50 billion a year to make Head Start-type programs available to all 4-year-olds, whether poor or not. Steven Barnett, a professor of economics at Rutgers, has estimated that it would cost $25 billion to $30 billion to offer an enriched preschool program to every poverty-level child in the country -- about triple the current cost of Head Start -- and that making such a system universally available would run into the hundreds of billions. Perhaps we should keep our expectations modest, but it's worth bearing in mind that the French have created, in the form of the ecole maternelle, an extraordinarily effective and widely admired form of preschool that reaches 85 percent of 3- to 5-year-olds. For the French, universal public education effectively starts at 3. Can we think of a good reason it shouldn't here?
An all-day, year-round child-care and preschool program -- and especially one intended specifically for the poor -- smacks of a kind of Progressive Era paternalism in which mothers are expected to yield up their children to wise professionals. Back when he was just a congressman with strange ideas, Newt Gingrich once suggested that inner-city children be shipped en masse to the equivalent of Boys Town, a proposal that makes poverty sound like a crime punishable by loss of offspring. But Gingrich understood something important: ghetto children need an enveloping environment that is secure and nourishing, as the streets and often the home itself are not. And school is not enveloping enough. You can't take children away from their mothers, but you can place them in an alternative environment for much of the day (which the end of welfare, in any case, has now made indispensable). There's a strong argument for universally available after-school activities. No less important would be the restoration of the web of church, community and police-sponsored programs that once flourished in big cities. The breakdown of families means that we have to ask more of social institutions -- and not just schools -- than we used to.
Of course we also have to ask more of the families themselves. In Jim Sleeper's "Liberal Racism," the black economist Glenn Loury recalls vexing a symposium on race by saying: "Let's talk about who's going to read to these kids. . . . How come these public libraries at the corners of housing projects aren't overflowing?" The language of personal responsibility makes many liberals flinch, and Edmund Gordon, Head Start's first research director, is almost certainly right in thinking that middle-class parents are a lot more likely to respond to advice about child-rearing than are single mothers struggling to keep their heads above water. But if the cognitive gap between black and white 5-year-olds has to do with the human and social capital children do or do not acquire at home and in the community -- and not, or at least not principally, with racism or unfair tests or different "cognitive styles" -- then we can't do without the explicit language of values and behavior. We have to unambiguously embrace the virtues of a "middle-class parenting style." And prominent black figures have to weigh in against the antiacademic and even "oppositional" peer culture that Gordon and others say is retarding black progress.
It's not impossible to imagine a bargain in which conservatives agree to pay for comprehensive institutions like Impact or for after-school activities and liberals agree to embrace the language of personal responsibility, but we would still be asking ghetto children to thrive in an incredibly adverse environment. The idea of directly addressing that environment through jobs programs, housing, health care or the adoption of "a living wage" survives only in the fringes of political discourse. But you cannot disentangle the objective conditions of a place like East New York from the habits and values of the people who live there. The most effective solution -- and the most unlikely one of all -- is to move families out of the ghetto environment altogether. As Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist, puts it, "You can't change the parents, but you can change the neighborhood." Katz points to the famous Gautreaux experiment in Chicago, in which families were given subsidies to move from high-poverty neighborhoods to the suburbs; studies have found that children in these families were far more successful academically than would have otherwise been predicted. Katz is now in the midst of a long-term study of families involved in Moving to Opportunity, a five-year-old program sponsored by the Department of Housing and Urban Development that allowed a small number of families in five cities to leave the ghetto for working-class neighborhoods. Though it is too early to look at academic results, Katz's early study found very large drops in incidents of misbehavior and sizable improvements both in children's physical health and in mothers' mental health.
A few years ago, I spent several days at the McDonough School, an elementary school in Hartford. Despite its reputation for corporate wealth, Hartford is one of the poorest cities in the country; it was there that President Clinton recently announced his extremely modest new antipoverty initiative. McDonough's population was almost 100 percent Hispanic and black and 100 percent poor. The school was decrepit, but clean and orderly, cheerful and safe -- an oasis of purposefulness in a neighborhood so chaotic that a few months earlier a janitor was chased off a snowblower and shot outside the school's annex. The principal, Donald Carso, was the kind of irrepressible enthusiast who made a point of greeting parents out in front of the school every morning, even in the dead of winter -- a figure straight out of the "effective schools" literature. But McDonough was a failing school: three-quarters of the graduating sixth graders had scored at the remedial level on the state reading test. Carso said he had reached the limit of his powers. "In this world," he told me, making a little globe with his fingertips, "we're very successful. But we can't control all the stuff on the outside."
At bottom, the reason the kids at McDonough and practically every other elementary school in Hartford were failing, while the kids in the wealthy suburbs that began just on the other side of West Hartford were thriving, was not that the schools in Hartford were bad and the schools in the suburbs were good, but that each set of children was repeating patterns, and following trajectories, established before they arrived at school. McDonough's children lived in a world bounded and defined by poverty. One teacher told me that when she talked to her sixth graders about college, they'd say: "What's college? I don't know anyone who's been to college." They didn't know anyone who had succeeded in school, landed a good job, made it to the suburbs.
I met Carso because he had decided to testify for the plaintiff in a well-known desegregation case, Sheff v. O'Neill. He said something had to be done to spring the children free from the isolation of urban poverty; he played with the idea that the Hartford schools should simply be shut down, and the children dispersed into the surrounding suburbs. Carso said he never thought the litigation would solve the problem (it hasn't), but he hoped that it would at least force people to pay attention. "We are," he said to me almost pleadingly, "saying to our neighbors, 'Take ownership of our problem."'
That is the issue: are we going to take ownership of the problem? The gulf between the poor and the well-off is much wider than it used to be, not only financially but also psychically. The memory of the Depression, with its "there but for the grace of God" reflex, has passed out of American politics and culture. Once it was the rich who seemed to live on an island of their own; now it's the poor. Their isolation makes them gratifyingly invisible. The drop in crime even makes the poor seem like less of a threat to the prosperous; it frees us to contemplate, along with George W. Bush, the spiritual hollowness of plenty. But here's a thought: maybe our prosperity will continue to seem hollow as long as so many 3-year-old black girls face such grim prospects.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ghetto Blaster? Education may not be able to conquer the disadvantages impoverished children bring with them to school and return to at home.; Reading Is Fundamental Nobody believes in the transformative power of schools the way Americans do. A "Roots" class in East New York (above) is the heart of a design for education that may one day turn out students who will expect and be prepared for more than the inner city can offer.; Minding the Gap Money spent on schools, it seems, cannot bridge the abyss between the children of middle-class and poor parents; for poor children grow up in a world without books and stimulating games and where their natural curiosity is regularly squashed and they are isolated from life beyond their neighborhoods. (Photographs by Erin Patrice O'Brien)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: READING IS FUNDAMENTAL (59%); READING IS FUNDAMENTAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: READING IS FUNDAMENTAL (59%); READING IS FUNDAMENTAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SCHOOL CHOICE (75%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



432 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2402 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Doubts Raised About Source in Bank of New York Inquiry

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
In the months since news broke that billions of dollars in suspect Russian money had flowed through the Bank of New York, an obscure, emigre lawyer has done as much as anyone to keep the story alive and build pressure on the bank.
Emanuel E. Zeltser, a classically trained pianist who passed the New York bar exam without any formal legal training in the United States, has positioned himself as the kind of savvy, inside source that journalists and investigators covet. 
 Material circulated by Mr. Zeltser and his associates has figured prominently in articles in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and the financial wire service Bridge News. Mr. Zeltser portrays himself as an anticorruption crusader, committed to exposing the truth about Russian improprieties.
But a look at his business dealings and his past, based on interviews and court records, raises questions about whether reporters and others have been too willing to accept help from a person whose ethics and credibility are in dispute.
In court papers and sworn testimony, former business associates have accused Mr. Zeltser of faking financial and legal documents. An administrator of the Moldovan law school from which he purportedly graduated has signed an affidavit asserting that his law diploma is a "fabrication" -- a significant charge because it was his Soviet-era law degree that allowed him to take the bar exam in this country. State and federal authorities are currently examining Mr. Zeltser's license to practice law in New York.
The federal investigation of the Bank of New York continues and the bank has acknowledged that it failed to supervise its Russian accounts properly. The bank has not been charged with wrongdoing.
The sprawling investigation has generated enormous coverage by the news media. But some of the flourishes that Mr. Zeltser has managed to add to the story, while not undermining the importance of the investigation, are in question.
Doubts have emerged about the authenticity of at least one document distributed to reporters by Mr. Zeltser and his associates -- an internal World Bank memo that suggested that an official at the bank was conspiring with a Bank of New York client to trade illegally on inside information.
Mr. Zeltser denied circulating forged documents and insisted in interviews that the accusations against him in court cases are attempts by Russian organized crime to silence him.
"Players on the Russian side are very dangerous and very brutal," Mr. Zeltser noted in a letter to The Times. "I and others allied with me who sought to expose their criminal operations in the U.S. were subjected to vicious harassment, death threats and actual physical retaliations."
Mr. Zeltser himself is not above threatening retribution. When The Times informed Mr. Zeltser that it intended to investigate his past, he promised to "retaliate."
Within days, he and his associates unleashed accusations, some posted on his Web site, that this New York Times reporter was in league with the Russian mob, intimidated witnesses in a federal court case, sexually harassed one of Mr. Zeltser's female associates, conspired with the Bank of New of York and, ultimately, developed a romantic interest in Mr. Zeltser himself.
Mr. Zeltser's interest in the Bank of New York inquiry is not selfless. Days after the story erupted, he laid the groundwork for a $2 billion lawsuit against the bank. He later joined forces with Milberg, Weiss, a New York law firm that is bringing its own suit against the Bank of New York. Milberg declined to comment on the record about its dealings with Mr. Zeltser.
Mr. Zeltser emigrated from the Soviet Union in 1974. Settling in Richardson, Tex., he cleaned tables at a Burger King and played piano in a local strip joint before moving to New York a year later to study music at the Juilliard School.
But he left Juilliard before completing his degree and by the early 1980's had undergone the first in a series of transformations, emerging as an entrepreneur engaged in a broad range of business activities.
Mr. Zeltser's associates, who have requested anonymity because they say they fear reprisals, have said his ventures netted substantial sums. Those ventures also produced several lawsuits.
One case arose over a small New Jersey medical clinic called American Urgy. Mr. Zeltser began working as an adviser to the clinic in late 1987. Not long after, according to a civil lawsuit filed against him and others in New Jersey Superior Court in 1988 by one of the clinic's founders, Mr. Zeltser helped hatch an illegal takeover of the clinic that allowed him to divert its assets for his "own use."
During the trial, one of American Urgy's doctors, Vivian Bethala, testified that financial records Mr. Zeltser tried to introduce in court proceedings had been falsified.
Mr. Zeltser disputed all the accusations against him in that case, but was found liable and eventually assessed about $2 million in damages -- damages that remain unpaid.
In a 1989 deposition taken for the case, Mr. Zeltser described himself as a "nonlawyer." The next year, however, his status changed.
In 1990, Mr. Zeltser took advantage of rules that allowed immigrants holding overseas law degrees to take the New York bar exam. He passed the bar exam on his first try.
He told New York legal authorities that he had received a law degree in 1974 from Kishinev State University in his native Moldova. Kishinev has no record of Mr. Zeltser's attendance; most of the classes he claims to have taken were not part of the school's curriculum. He does not appear in the class photo and his diploma is conspicuously different from those of other students.
Mr. Zeltser acknowledged the inconsistencies. But he contended that the reason there was no record in Moldova of his attendance at Kishinev and the reason his course work and diploma were so singular, was because he was enrolled in a top-secret program in international law that few people knew about. He also asserted that his original law school records were destroyed during the collapse of the Soviet Union.
An affidavit submitted in a lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan by Mr. Zeltser against Inkombank, once one of Russia's largest banks, contradicts this scenario. In the affidavit, George S. Zhitar, personnel director at Moldovan State University, the successor school to Kishinev, described Mr. Zeltser's diploma as a "fabrication." Mr. Zhitar said the records of every law student who attended the school between 1959 and 1997 were intact and on file.
Mr. Zeltser's nascent legal career got its biggest boost in 1993 when he began working for Inkombank.
Inkombank, which collapsed in 1998, is today seen as one of Russia's most disreputable banks, suspected of pilfering the deposits of thousands of average Russians.
The bank first retained Mr. Zeltser to handle lease disputes in New York. But Mr. Zeltser graduated to bigger things when he and an urbane Shearson Smith Barney stock broker named Donald Redfern linked up several years ago.
The duo helped Inkombank establish a number of offshore accounts into which the Russian bank transferred about $30 million, according to court documents. Mr. Redfern, who now works for Bear, Stearns & Company, declined repeated requests for interviews.
In short order, Mr. Zeltser moved several million dollars out of the accounts by doctoring forms and forging signatures, according to associates and to documents in a lawsuit Mr. Zeltser filed against Inkombank in federal court in Manhattan.
About $2 million of those funds, according to the court papers and Mr. Zeltser's associates, was funneled into bank accounts controlled by a law partnership headed by Mr. Zeltser's ex-wife, Anna Reid, and a longtime business associate of Mr. Zeltser, Alexander Fishkin.
Ms. Reid did not respond to repeated requests for interviews, choosing instead to file police complaints asserting that this reporter was harassing her. Mr. Fishkin also did not respond to numerous requests for an interview.
Mr. Zeltser disputed in court and in interviews that he had stolen any money from Inkombank. But he acknowledged in an interview that about $2 million had moved into the Fishkin-Reid accounts from offshore entities. He contended that none of the money came from Inkombank. Although he said he could provide documentation for the actual sources of those funds, he never did.
Inkombank fired Mr. Zeltser in 1994 and he sued the bank the following year in federal court in Manhattan, saying that the bank owed him legal fees and that it had stolen money from shareholders and depositors.
That case foundered in 1998 when Inkombank became insolvent. Mr. Zeltser's legal maneuverings against the bank appeared stalled until the news broke last August that federal investigators were looking into possible money laundering at the Bank of New York.
On Aug. 19, the day that The Times first wrote about the Bank of New York inquiry, a Russian journalist, Victor Smolny, who described himself as a friend of Mr. Zeltser, called this reporter to arrange a meeting with Mr. Zeltser.
Although Mr. Zeltser has since boasted that he was the source for The Times's first article, The Times had no contact with Mr. Zeltser before Aug. 19 -- a fact that Mr. Zeltser acknowledged in a tape-recorded interview.
On Aug. 20, The Times published an article that examined the activities of Natasha Gurfinkel Kagalovsky, a former Bank of New York executive. Ms. Kagalovsky has not been charged with wrongdoing but remains a focus of the federal investigation.
In its Aug. 20 article, The Times used memos provided by Mr. Zeltser -- and independently verified before publication -- one of which indicated that Ms. Kagalovsky had lobbied the Bank of New York's chairman, Thomas Renyi, on Inkombank's behalf. Mr. Zeltser was quoted in the article, and he was cited as the source for the memos. Other than the Aug. 20 article, Mr. Zeltser has not been a source for any other articles in the newspaper.
After being quoted in The Times, Mr. Zeltser became a primary source for others in the news media. He also has boasted that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is dependent on his expertise. The F.B.I. declined to confirm or deny a relationship with Mr. Zeltser.
Mr. Zeltser's documents led to a number of different stories, many of which were tangential to the investigation at the Bank of New York but which advanced the notion of Inkombank as a rogue operation.
On Oct. 22, The Wall Street Journal reported that the World Bank was investigating whether a former Russian representative to the bank, Leonid Grigoriev, had provided inside information to Inkombank. Among the documents used by The Journal was a memo purportedly written by Mr. Grigoriev to Inkombank officials.
The Journal provided the memo and other documents to the World Bank. The bank had not been investigating Mr. Grigoriev before it was approached by the newspaper, World Bank officials said.
On Oct. 25, Mr. Zeltser called this reporter to offer the memo and other documents he said were associated with the World Bank investigation. Mr. Zeltser said he had provided the memo to The Wall Street Journal. Later, a longtime associate of Mr. Zeltser, Maria Berdnikova, asserted that she had provided the memo to The Journal.
The memo, which discusses ways to profit from inside information about the Russian bond market and is translated from Russian, almost begs for its author to be caught, containing such bald admonitions as: "ATTENTION: the very fact of our participation in this transaction must remain a secret."
Andrei Bugrov, Russia's representative to the World Bank and the official from whose office the memo was purportedly sent, said he had told The Journal before the inquiry began that he thought the memo was a fake. In its article, the newspaper quoted Mr. Bugrov as saying the accusations were serious, if true, but did not mention his concerns about the memo's authenticity.
Richard Tofel, a Wall Street Journal spokesman, declined to discuss the "particular editorial judgments" leading to the omission of those comments.
"We were convinced and remain convinced the story was fair and accurate," Mr. Tofel said, adding that Mr. Bugrov has since told Journal reporters he shares that assessment. The Journal, Mr. Tofel said, "took steps we thought were sufficient" to verify the authenticity of the document.
Mr. Bugrov, in an interview on Friday, disputed the Journal's characterization of his comments about its story. "I couldn't have said it was accurate because I told them I thought the memo was bogus," he said.
The World Bank's investigation of Mr. Grigoriev is continuing and Mr. Grigoriev did not respond to interview requests. In its story, The Journal quoted Mr. Grigoriev as initially saying "I don't believe anything was done about" the memo and then, later, flatly denying writing it.
Mr. Zeltser insisted the document was genuine and introduced this reporter to a woman he described as a European banker working in London who could attest to its authenticity. That woman, Oxana Berkounova, turned out to be a lawyer for the the World Bank in Washington. She has known Mr. Zeltser for several years and has maintained an active e-mail correspondence with him from her World Bank office.
Ms. Berkounova declined to explain her relationship with Mr. Zeltser, replying with a letter saying that this reporter had sexually harassed her and was writing the article because she had spurned his advances.
Mr. Zeltser boasted to this reporter that other news organizations, including USA Today and Bridge News, had been outlets for his documents. USA Today declined to comment on questions about Mr. Zeltser. Bridge News, which published damaging documents about the Bank of New York's Ms. Kagalovsky -- unsubstantiated documents Mr. Zeltser had shared with this reporter -- also declined to comment, citing confidentiality agreements with sources. Bridge said its policy was to corroborate documents with multiple sources.
For his part, Mr. Zeltser recently stopped discussing these matters after asking this reporter, "Do you love me?"
He closed a final conversation by saying: "I tried to give you every measure of respect, and you only tried to make a fool of yourself. Now that you have succeeded, don't call me any more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emanuel E. Zeltser, a Russian emigre lawyer interviewed on CNN in September 1999, provided material used in articles in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and elsewhere. (pg. C9)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK CO (BK) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NEW YORK (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK CO (BK) NEW YORK (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); ETHICS (76%); TESTIMONY (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); WRITERS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: EMANUEL E ZELTSER (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



433 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Got a Film and a Dream? Tell It to the Real World;
A Chance to Pitch for Would-Be Moviemakers

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Jon C. Scheide ambled up to the microphone, 400 pairs of eyes glued to him, utterly sympathetic, while a panel of movie-industry types stared down dispassionately from their seats on the dais, like guardians at the gates of heaven.
Mr. Scheide began his pitch: a futuristic, gender-bending, techno-thriller called "Out of Body, Out of Mind." You see, in the not-so-distant future, you can upload and download consciousness, meaning that sexual partners can trade bodies and see what it is like on the other side, until one day a gold-digging trophy wife refuses to give her tycoon husband his body back and he/she has to figure out some way to restore matters before she/he loots his/her bank account and dumps him/her for a younger model. 
 "I'm afraid I lost you a little bit in the details," said Jacquie Lawrence, an executive with Channel 4 in Britain.
"Perhaps you've buried the best elements in your pitch," said Joe Pichirallo, an executive at Fox Searchlight. "And I think you need to decide which way you want to go with this. It could be a serious thriller, which is how I think you're describing it. Or it could be a comedy. It could be a big-budget movie with big stars, or it could be a smaller art film. You need to make some tough choices. And also I should tell you that we have a story something like that already in development at 20th Century Fox with Jim Carrey."
Mr. Scheide leaned forward and beat his forehead against the microphone, the thundering thump, thump, thump echoing through the high-tech interior of the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts here.
It was "Open Day" at the Seventh Annual International Film Financing Conference, a somewhat more intimate, boutique-size alternative to annual gatherings like the American Film Market in Los Angeles in February and the Independent Film Financing Market in New York in September. It is a place for aspiring producers and filmmakers to get together with executives and bankers, people who buy films or give money to make them, and also to meet one another, compare battle scars and learn some tricks of the trade.
This particular panel, "Pitch Perfect: How to Sell Your Idea," is always one of the highlights of the festival, as it is in the growing number of film gatherings, like this, that allow people to walk in off the street and pitch a movie idea to real, live movie executives. At this year's Sundance Film Festival, the annual high point on the independent film calendar, which opens in Utah later this week, a Los Angeles company will even allow people to pitch their ideas online.
For the audience it is a kind of entertainment, a catharsis; they can live out their own best-pitch fantasies and worst-pitch nightmares without actually being on the line themselves.
For the aspiring filmmakers, it is a golden chance to try out the silver-tongued pitches they've been practicing before the bedroom mirror in front of a panel of kindly but somewhat gimlet-eyed professionals. And there is always the hope, largely delusional, that one of the panelists will jump up and say, "That's it, just what we've been looking for!"
After the pitch session, the fourth he has attended in four years, Mr. Pichirallo said: "I don't expect to find anybody here. That would be a miracle. But it's so hard to get somewhere in this business that what I try to do is explain to people the dos and the don'ts. Just being a good filmmaker does not mean you know how to sell your idea. But to succeed, that's exactly what you're going to have to do, over and over."
The first day of the conference is open; that is, anyone can buy a ticket and take part in the panels. The rest of the weekend is limited to the 58 producers and filmmakers whose applications were accepted from the 300 or so submitted, a winnowing process that makes the conference more attractive to a lot of production executives and bankers because it gives them confidence that they will be faced only with projects of some proven pedigree and not every deluded aspirant who could afford a bus ticket, plus the entire graduating class of the local film school.
The success can be seen in the growing number of production executives who attend the event, up from 6 in its first year to more than 70 this year.
"I'm committed to smallness," said Wendy Braitman, executive director of the conference. "It's about relationships. It's about building relationships. We allow people to get to know each other."
If it doesn't result in an immediate film deal, and it almost never does, perhaps it can be the beginning of a creative relationship that will end with a project a few years down the road, Ms. Braitman said.
"We don't spend a lot of time talking about content," she said. "This is about financing, making contacts, learning how to get your film made. It's such a heartbreak-hotel business. Hearing some of the success stories and commiserating with one another, like the people are doing here, takes some of the pain away."
This is a time of enormous change and anxiety in the independent-film business. Although there have been recent successes like "The Blair Witch Project," which came out of last year's Sundance festival, the governing reality for young producers and filmmakers at this level is that the economic model that sustained the American independent boom over the last decade has altered. It is no longer as easy or perhaps even possible to make the midrange movie, costing $1 million to $3 million, and have any concrete hopes of it rising above the glut and making it into theaters.
"The rules have changed," said Jack Lechner, a veteran film executive and writer who gave the conference's keynote address. It used to be that a young filmmaker with talent and a decent idea could make the rounds, get bare-bones financing to shoot a film, put it out on the festival circuit and have reasonable hopes of getting a theatrical booking, at least in New York and Los Angeles. "It rarely works that way anymore," Mr. Lechner said. "The films will more likely sit there, collecting debt and dust while the filmmakers try and figure out what went wrong."
What has happened during the last decade or so is that a rising tide of American independent films -- led by breakout hits like Steven Soderbergh's "Sex, Lies and Videotape" and Kevin Smith's "Clerks" -- gradually pushed foreign films out of the small number of art-film houses around the country. Then, inevitably, the Hollywood studios smelled profit and absorbed many of the independent distribution companies, like Miramax and New Line, and began to make their own independent-style films. Now those films have pushed most of the genuine independents out of those same art houses.
"The market is flooded," Mr. Lechner said. "The day of the nice little movie is over, kaput. The old independent boom has been absorbed by the mainstream, which has been invigorated by it."
That was part of the reason for the sense of anxiety and uncertainty that permeated the conference, as aspiring filmmakers explored issues like the emerging world of digital production, alternative avenues of distribution like cable television, and seeking financing from foreign television markets hungry for something to fill up their air time.
That the conference comes just before Sundance -- the mountaintop Valhalla of the independent movement, where perhaps a new "Blair Witch" will emerge, or at least some of the fog may lift and a path forward reveal itself -- only ratchets up the anxiety level.
It was certainly palpable in the room during the pitch panel. So many aspiring, creative people trying to figure out how to get their movies made, how to get in on the party, like people on the rope line outside a fashionable club trying to figure out what the doorman is looking for tonight.
The pitches poured out: an immigrant sucked into the life of a street gang. Brothers born 20 years apart brought together by the death of their estranged father. An escaped slave who lives with American Indians in the Carolina wilderness. A kind of rural Serpico in the Pacific Northwest solving a 50-year-old murder. Two young women who want to be filmmakers with a story about two young women who want to be filmmakers.
"I'm afraid you've lost me completely," Jan Rofekamp, whose Montreal-based Films Transits finances documentaries, told one tongue-tied pitcher.
Jonathan King of Laurence Mark Productions prodded, "Perhaps you should practice this in front of other people first."
Marcus Hu of Strand Releasing told one woman: "You have to keep in mind what you want from the pitch. What you really want in a pitch is to set up the next meeting. It's always about the next step. And you've done that. You've hooked me. I want to know what happens next."
Mr. Scheide stood against the wall in the back of the conference hall after his pitch, running it over in his mind. He had come to the conference hoping to find financing to finish another film and only put his name in the mix for the pitches on a whim. He thought he would try out a new idea he was considering for his next project.
"I threw my card in, and then I thought, 'Uh-oh, I'd better figure out what I'm going to pitch,' " he said.
He listened to the pitches before his, tried to figure out what the panelists wanted to hear, restructured his ideas on a piece of scratch paper, then let fly.
"I've pitched before," Mr. Scheide said. "You know, in the real world. So this was not my first pitch. What was great about this is that you got the before and after. Usually you make your pitch and then you leave. Here they give you instant feedback. That's what you need. You know, the big thing about pitching is getting over your fear."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SO HOOK ME -- Pitching their screenplays before a panel of movie executives and backers on "Open Day" at the Seventh Annual International Film Financing Conference in San Francisco are, clockwise from top left, Ivanna Hassetti, Scott Crocker and Jon C. Scheide. (Photographs by Andy Kuno for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (85%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); 

PERSON: JIM CARREY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



434 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: America Online Deal Will Put More Pressureon Internet Rivals

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
Four years ago, when Barbara Ransford happily reported that she was now on the Internet, having just signed up with America Online, her son-in-law, Bill Joy, was quick to correct her. Mr. Joy, a Sun Microsystems co-founder who helped build the Internet in the 1970's, explained that America Online was actually a proprietary network that allowed access to the Internet.
"This was a level of detail that didn't matter to her," recalled Mr. Joy. "She wanted me to meet her on a chat list. I told her it didn't work on my computer." 
 The exchange between a member of cyberspace's old guard and a "newbie" underscores the fact that to its 20 million paying subscribers, America Online is the Internet, the cyberspace entrance of choice for more Americans than the next dozen largest Internet service providers combined. Roughly one of every two households in the United States sees the online world through the prism of AOL, according to AOL's own figures.
The company's announcement last week of a $165 billion merger with Time Warner further solidifies its domination of cyberspace by linking large amounts of content -- everything from magazines and books to cartoons, movies and recorded music -- to its ever-growing audience.
After the deal was announced, analysts, journalists and investors asked, "Who's next?" Speculation abounded: would Yahoo merge with Walt Disney? would Microsoft swallow Viacom, which is already merging with CBS?
But a great deal of head-scratching produced no obvious pairings, primarily because America Online is a unusual hybrid that has thrived with a mix of virtual communities and copious proprietary content and services. And, yes, access to the Internet -- but almost incidentally and usually carefully choreographed.
"Elsewhere on the Internet, access and content have diverged as businesses," said Chris Charron, an analyst with Forrester Research, a market research company in Cambridge, Mass. "The Mindsprings and Earthlinks and AT&T Worldnets have been unsuccessful in the content space," he said, referring to other leading Internet service providers. Other content providers, he added, have been unsuccessful at providing Internet access.
That this strange hybrid has come not only to dominate the Internet but to personify it sends a strong signal to its competitors, which include portal sites on the World Wide Web like Yahoo and Lycos, as well as hundreds of Internet service providers large and small. The message is this: find a way to co-exist with this behemoth.
"With so many assets under one roof, or within one company, the threat is certainly substantial to any other company in the same space," said Anya Sacharow, an analyst with Jupiter Communications, a market research firm in New York.
While not entirely ruling out the possibility of a merger in the future, Tim Koogle, Yahoo's chief executive, said his company preferred to build a broad set of partnerships with hundreds of content providers. "We will try very hard not to do anything that limits the flexibility we have or decreases the comprehensiveness of our platform," Mr. Koogle said.
Mr. Koogle pointed out that by the end of December, Yahoo had 120 million users, up from 105 million at the end of September. Yahoo charges no fee to its users.
In contrast to AOL's image, people do not think of Yahoo as the Internet but rather as part of the World Wide Web, which itself is a part of the Internet. This, said Mr. Koogle, suits him just fine. The newest generation to come online, he said, "knows what the Web is and knows what Yahoo is."
Analysts say Yahoo's strong fourth quarter earnings report last week validates not only its independent status but also its strategy of making wide-ranging but limited deals with partners and emphasizing the Yahoo brand.
"That card of agnosticism may take on greater value in light of the AOL-Time Warner deal," said Mr. Charron. "They can say, 'We are truly the only open portal.' "
"Yahoo isn't running scared by any means," said Michael Graham, an Internet analyst with Robertson Stephens in San Francisco. "Their business is different from AOL's, and they're going through the roof."
That leaves everyone else, portals and Internet service providers alike, facing tough competition from an AOL-Time Warner colossus.
"Basically, the broad-based portals in this middle space are in for some trouble," Mr. Charron said of companies like Excite@Home, Lycos and Snap.com. "They're in a tough position because they're trying to support a very expensive cost structure, they're trying to develop, and they're battling against the Yahoo's and AOL's, who are doing it better and have more access to capital and opportunities."
But for all the analysis of business models and strategies, much of the magic of America Online, say observers, lies with its utter simplicity.
"This is why Steve Case has really won the war at the end of the day," said John W. Sidgmore, vice chairman of MCI Worldcom, referring to America Online's 41-year-old chairman and chief executive. "Steve knew that most customers really want simple access, user friendliness and a tool that's very easy to use."
Not all who use America Online love its self-conscious simplicity. Gregory Dreicer, a historian of technology and currently a fellow at the Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library, dislikes America Online's user interface, especially the advertising windows he encounters when he logs on. But has no plans to defect after using the service for the past 18 months.
Many people, Mr. Dreicer among them, stay with AOL because they are creatures of habit.
Molly Dougherty, a consultant to nonprofit organizations in Austin, Tex., is also lukewarm on the America Online environment, but she does not want to give up her e-mail address because unlike most other services, AOL does not forward e-mail to users after they leave.
Charlene Li, a senior analyst with Forrester Research who follows America Online, said she keeps trying to persuade her husband to switch to a more sophisticated set of Internet access tools, but he is "addicted" to America Online. "If I left him alone he'd be totally, hunky-dory happy with AOL," she said.
America Online does not reveal what percentage of customers drop the service, but a Forrester study conducted last year estimated the company's annual churn rate -- the number of paying subscribers who cancel the service -- at just 2.5 percent.
Garry Betty, chief executive of Earthlink, said he was not worried about competing with AOL after a Time Warner merger. "America Online is an online service, not an I.S.P.," or Internet service provider, said Mr. Betty, whose company's advertisements have sought "AOL graduates."
"We owe a debt of gratitude to America Online," Mr. Betty said, because they're the trailblazers, and they continue to communicate the importance of the Internet to the masses. They could even be said to be responsible for increasing the penetration of P.C.'s in households."
So, while many Internet purists are rankled by the popular confusion of AOL with the Internet, the distinction remains irrelevant to the likes of Ms. Ransford. She says her only frustration with America Online arose when she was visiting her daughter and Mr. Joy recently at their home in Colorado. She was unable to check her personal financial portfolio using her hosts' computer.
'They didn't have the most updated version of AOL," she said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (91%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL) AOL INC (91%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); VIACOM INC (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC (AOL)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); MERGERS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (86%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); WRITERS (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (61%); MUSIC (51%); 

PERSON: TIM KOOGLE (66%); CHRIS CHARRON (58%); BILL JOY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



435 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Choice for Israel Bank Chief Approved by a Split Cabinet

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 16

 BODY:
Over the objections of Israel's finance minister, the cabinet tonight narrowly approved Prime Minister Ehud Barak's choice of a conservative central bank economist as the bank's next governor.
David Klein, who now heads the central bank's monetary affairs division, was endorsed in a 10-to-7 vote after a long afternoon of contentious debate that exposed stark economic-policy divisions in Mr. Barak's center-left coalition. 
 Five leading cabinet members abstained, including Finance Minister Avraham Shochat, marking the first time that an Israeli central bank governor had been selected without finance ministry support. Foreign Minister David Levy also declined to support Mr. Barak's nominee.
Many institutional investors here applauded the appointment of Mr. Klein, which they saw as an assurance of the continuation of the policies the previous governor, Jacob Frenkel had enforced during his eight-year tenure.
Of the several candidates who were considered for the post, Mr. Klein was regarded as philosophically the closest to the hard-line monetarism of Mr. Frenkel, who resigned last week to take a London-based job at Merrill Lynch.
Like Mr. Frenkel, Mr. Klein is an American-educated former staff economist at the International Monetary Fund who is known for his opposition to inflation and to intervention in foreign-exchange markets.
Opposition to Mr. Klein ran deepest within the prime minister's own party, which ran in the last election on a platform advocating lower interest rates and faster economic growth. Those goals are unlikely to be priorities for Mr. Klein, a career central bank technician who embodies his institution's resistance to anything that smacks of inflationary expansion.
Personal appeals from Mr. Barak persuaded key ministers from his party, One Israel, to back away from their earlier-announced intention to vote against Mr. Klein. One of them, Haim Ramon, who is assigned to the prime minister's office, said later that he changed his decision only in deference to Mr. Barak. "I still think that Mr. Klein was a bad appointment," he said, "but what stood in the balance was the great blow that a loss would have represented for the prime minister."
Finance Minister Shochat said Mr. Klein's selection "will defer growth."
Mr. Barak gamely called the protracted cabinet discussion "a legitimate and democratic debate between differing economic perspectives."
Having received the required cabinet endorsement, Mr. Klein is to be sworn in on Monday by President Ezer Weizman to a five-year term.
Mr. Barak's nomination of Mr. Klein for the bank governorship signaled a continuing commitment to strict anti-inflation policies at a time when inflation here has fallen to its lowest level in a generation.
The Central Bureau of Statistics said Friday that the cost-of-living index rose just 1.3 percent in 1999, half the United States rate and the smallest annual increase since 1967.
In contrast, the base lending rate fixed by the central bank is a stiff 10.7 percent. Maintaining high real interest rates of 9 percent or more is defended by economists who share the bank's fears of resurgent inflation, but assailed by industrialists and politicians who blame the bank's polices for three consecutive years of flat or lower per-capita incomes.
The stock market jumped several points when Mr. Barak announced his choice, though market analysts said later that stock prices could suffer if Mr. Klein resists pressure to ease interest rates. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (58%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; ISRAEL; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STATISTICS (64%); GOVERNORS (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, DAVID EHUD BARAK (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



436 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
With Roses, an Ambassador Polishes Colombia's Image

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LIKE most Colombians, Ambassador Luis Alberto Moreno-Mejia hates his country's reputation among Americans. "I'm sure that if you did a poll, the first thing that would come to mind is the association with cocaine," he said. "It's bad for me, and it's bad for Colombia. I think the self-esteem of Colombians is very much hurt when we are perceived this way."
So last month, the 46-year-old diplomat saw an opportunity to change some minds. His ammunition: 20,000 Colombian roses, in shades of red, cream, coral, yellow and blush, and the Colombian actor who plays Juan Valdez, the fictional coffee grower in the television commercials. 
 The roses were sent by air freight to Washington in time for the National Symphony Orchestra ball, one of the social events of the season. The actor was dressed in a poncho and placed at the entryway to the ballroom, handing out vacuum-packed samples of Colombian coffee to guests including Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and Louis J. Freeh, the F.B.I. director.
The idea was to remind Washington's decisionmakers that Colombia's major export to the United States is not cocaine. It is petroleum, followed by coffee, followed by cut flowers. "We wanted to show people in Washington that Colombia is more than just what you read in the headlines," the ambassador said. And he thinks it worked. "I sure hope so," he said.
A more important victory for Ambassador Moreno-Mejia came last week, when President Clinton announced a $1.3 billion emergency aid package to Colombia to help the government of President Andres Pastrana in its war against narcotics traffickers and the leftist guerrillas who control much of the cocaine trade.
"President Pastrana's inauguration in August 1998 brought to Colombia a new spirit of hope," Mr. Clinton said. "But increased drug production and trafficking, coupled with a serious economic recession and sustained violence, have put that progress in peril."
Ambassador Moreno-Mejia said the aid package, which still must be approved by Congress, was a landmark in relations between Colombia and the United States, the largest market for Colombian cocaine.
"I consider it a turning point because there is a recognition that there needs to be burden-sharing in this fight," he told a visitor to his office in the Colombia Embassy, one wall dominated by a large portrait of Simon Bolivar, the great independence hero of Latin America. "Colombia has suffered tremendously for many, many years, and it has been in this fight very much alone."
Mr. Moreno-Mejia is widely praised in the administration and in Congress for his tireless lobbying on behalf of Colombia, which is now the third largest recipient of American aid, after Israel and Egypt.
A former business executive and television journalist whose taste in clothing runs to Armani and Hermes, he is the picture of a modern diplomat. He is equally comfortable conversing in English as in Spanish, just as he seems equally at home in Washington as in Colombia, not surprising since he was a citizen of both countries until recently.
The ambassador, the oldest of seven children, was born in Philadelphia, where his father was in medical school at the University of Pennsylvania. He held both an American and Colombian passport until fall 1998, when he was named ambassador by Mr. Pastrana, a friend since they attended the same high school in Colombia. The ambassador attended college and business school in the United States.
He was forced to give up his American citizenship shortly after his diplomatic appointment was announced; American citizens cannot hold diplomatic immunity in their own country.
He recalled the process: "You go to the U.S. Embassy and you say, I want to renounce my citizenship, and they put papers in front of you, and you sign all these papers, and they say, why are you doing this? And I said, well, it's because I want to represent Colombia in the United States." He says he renounced his American citizenship reluctantly, and sadly.
The administration's new aid package to Colombia appears to enjoy bipartisan support on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers from both parties agree it is needed to save that nation of 38 million people from economic and political collapse.
The drug cartels that dominated the Colombia cocaine industry in the 1980's have largely disappeared. But they have been replaced by guerrillas who use the multibillion-dollar cocaine trade to underwrite their insurgency, which advanced last summer to within 30 miles of the nation's capital.
AMBASSADOR Moreno-Mejia warns that without the aid package, which includes money to pay for more than 60 military helicopters for the Colombian army and police, there will be "progressive deterioration."
The American military commitment has alarmed human rights groups and historians who see comparisons between the involvement in Colombia and what happened in Vietnam a generation ago. But the ambassador rejects the comparison. "It's not a military engagement," he said. "This is a situation in which you're helping Colombia with the tools so that Colombians can solve their own problems."
He figures he will need to serve at least another year in Washington to see the aid package approved and put into effect. After that, he and his wife, a Venezuelan economist who was her country's trade minister, plan to return to Colombia. His two children from a previous marriage -- a 15-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter -- are in school in Colombia.
A return home would be a novelty in his large family. Mr. Morena-Mejia's parents have become American citizens and settled in Florida, and five of his six siblings also now call the United States their home. But unlike the rest of his family, "I always wanted to be back in Colombia," he said. "The best legacy you can leave to your children is a sense of country -- and of helping to do something to improve it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Alberto Moreno-Mejia gave up his citizenship to aid Colombia. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CITIZENSHIP; DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY; FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); COFFEE (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); IMMUNITY (70%); COFFEE FARMING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RECESSION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: MORENO-MEJIA, LUIS ALBERTO (AMB); SHENON, PHILIP BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



437 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Officials Pore Over Putin's Resume

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
In contrast to his predecessors as leader of Russia, Vladimir V. Putin appears to be a modern decision maker who knows how to make things happen, Clinton Administration officials say. What remains unclear is whether his political instincts match that style of action.
"He can get the trains running on time, but the question is where the trains are going," said one senior policy maker. "We may be looking at a modern decision maker but the question is whether he has progressive values." 
 As the Administration pieces together its assessment of Mr. Putin, who replaced Boris N. Yeltsin a little more than two weeks ago, Washington is battling two factors. First, the United States knows much less about Mr. Putin than it did about Soviet leaders during the cold war. Second, the Clinton Administration must deal with him during volatile political seasons in both Russia and the United States, with a war in Chechnya souring relations between them.
Mr. Putin, who became prime minister of Russia only last August, has suddenly come to power from relative obscurity at the young age of 47. His resume's bare bones -- including his service in the K.G.B.'s foreign intelligence arm and his role as director of its successor, the Federal Security Service -- are known.
But the meaning of Mr. Putin's resume, and where his instincts really lie, are not understood, officials said. Did Mr. Putin's experience in the security services form him? Or is he, as he describes himself, a nationalist who wants a strong state sector with the benefits of democracy?
"We're scrambling," said one intelligence official.
In the short term, much of Mr. Putin's activities will be driven by the March 26 Russian presidential election, which polls suggest that he is almost certain to win. So far Mr. Putin has shown himself to be astute at garnering the support of the Russian people by encouraging the military in Chechnya and by pledging to reinvigorate the central powers of authority, officials said.
In Washington, President Clinton, who as a candidate attacked President Bush for "coddling" dictators in China, must try to ensure that Vice President Gore is not vulnerable to attack from the Republican presidential candidates for policies considered too lenient toward Russia.
For the remainder of the Clinton Administration, the major policy matters with Russia will be negotiations over arms control, continuation of loans from the International Monetary Fund and the war in Chechnya, where the Clinton Administration has accused Moscow of using indiscriminate force.
Efforts are now underway to reach an agreement with the Russians on changes to the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty that would allow the Administration to proceed on a limited nuclear missile defense system, but are not expected to reach a serious level until summer, after the Russian election, officials said.
From their early dealings with Mr. Putin in telephone conversations and face-to-face meetings, senior Administration officials describe him as a serious negotiator who is precise, well prepared and does what he promises.
The initial take on Mr. Putin is that he sees Russia's future as a fairly democratic one, with a market economy of some kind and participation in the world community, the officials said.
His Kremlin advisers, they noted, run the gamut from economic reformers to little-known intelligence operatives.
Mr. Putin made clear his intention to restore the state's authority in an article, "Russia at the Turn of the Millennium" that was posted on his government's Internet site and has been read by Administration officials.
Under the heading "Statism," Mr. Putin wrote: "It will not happen soon, if it ever happens at all, that Russia will become the second edition of, say, Britain, in which liberal values have deep historic traditions. Our state and its institutions and structures have always played an exceptionally important role in the life of the country and its people."
Shortly after he became Prime Minister, Mr. Putin met with President Clinton in Auckland, New Zealand, and in Oslo, where Mr. Clinton gave him a stern lecture about pushing too hard in Chechnya, White House officials said.
Mr. Putin has said he will not attend the gathering of world leaders and economists at Davos, Switzerland, later this month, depriving Mr. Clinton of a chance to take another measure of the Russian.
Before his appointment as Prime Minister, Mr. Putin was Mr. Yeltsin's national security adviser, putting him in contact with the White House national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger.
Mr. Putin was helpful on the telephone with Mr. Berger in setting the stage for a resolution of the crisis last June when Russian troops based in Bosnia marched across Serbia into Kosovo just as NATO troops were deploying there as part of an international peacekeeping force, officials said.
In another matter, Mr. Putin managed to engineer passage of legislation that put controls on the export of nuclear materials from Russia to Iran, the official said. But whether the export controls were actually working or whether the inspectors installed by Mr. Putin at the nuclear institutes were effective was an open question, the official said.
Administration officials said they will be watching in the next several weeks for what Mr. Putin does in Chechnya, where he has told Administration officials there needs to be a political solution at some point; whether he pushes legislation on bankruptcy, tax reform and money laundering, and whether he makes good on his pledge to get the Start II arms control treaty ratified by the newly elected Russian Parliament.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's popular acting president, signed autographs at a conference in Moscow last week. (Pool photo by Alexander Natruskin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); ESPIONAGE (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



438 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: In America;
When Hate Sees an Opening

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
You can get a chill just turning the pages of "Youth at the Edge," a report from the Southern Poverty Law Center on the inroads that organized hate groups are making among angry white youths in communities that are struggling despite the economic boom of the past few years.
"With the development of a two-tiered economy, we're seeing the rise of a new underclass of white youth that is particularly susceptible to the lure of hate groups," said Mark Potok, a spokesman for the law center, which monitors hate groups around the country and is headquartered in Montgomery, Ala. 
 Racist gangs, hard-core neo-Nazi groups and major white supremacist outfits like the Hammerskin Nation are having a field day recruiting youngsters, often from suburbia, whose families are beleaguered financially and losing faith in their dream of a stable middle-class existence.
These kids hear the seductive tones of organized haters telling them they're special, they're white, and yet they're getting the short end of everything. It's the fault of the blacks, they're told, and the Jews.
Most kids resist. The winds of racism in the United States blow with a lot less force than they did four or five decades ago. But a frightening number respond. And some are very young. In a commentary that accompanied the center's report, Mr. Potok wrote:
"In Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a 12-year-old boy distributes propaganda for neo-Nazi leader Matt Hale, a man whose one-time deputy murdered two people and wounded seven others last July. In Cleveland, a group of white 14- and 15-year-olds allegedly plans an October massacre of black students on homecoming day. And in Pasadena, Calif., four 13- and 14-year-olds, one of them fond of swastikas and similar symbols, are accused of drawing up plans in September to murder Armenians -- an ethnic group that the children's leader had apparently decided was not truly white after reviewing stacks of hate literature."
One of the cases mentioned in the report was that of Milton Walker, a homeless black man who was murdered a little over four years ago by a group of young whites in Lancaster, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles. The report described the crime as "a particularly grotesque killing that allegedly was followed by a 16-year-old girl's boast of having 'played' with the man's eyeballs."
One of the men accused of attacking Mr. Walker, a 23-year-old named Randall Rojas, said he had come from a troubled family and found a home with an offshoot of the Nazi Low Riders, an increasingly influential gang devoted to drug dealing and white supremacy.
The law center is not suggesting that tough times automatically lead to ethnic hatred. "You don't become a klansman just because you lost your job," said Mr. Potok.
But there is little doubt that large numbers of alienated young people, struggling against economic and other forces that often are difficult to see and even harder to fight, are primed for the offering of scapegoats.
In communities that appear to be benefiting little from the miracles of technology and globalization, it's not as difficult as one might imagine to advance the idea that golden opportunities for whites have been destroyed by blacks riding the wave of affirmative action and Jews who are secretly running things through their control of the federal apparatus, otherwise known as the Zionist Occupational Government.
This sickness is more widespread than we wish to believe and frequently results in insane violence. If you want a quick way to grasp the potential for mayhem, think skinheads.
Randy Blazak, a sociologist at Portland State University in Oregon who has spent years studying white supremacist skinheads, was interviewed as part of the law center's study.
"The most hard-core kids had experienced some first- or secondhand downward mobility," he said. "But the propaganda around the changing face of the American Dream was just as powerful. The perception was that all white people are moving down, and all minority people are moving up: 'The working-class white man is losing out on America, the country that he built.' " 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (92%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (84%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (84%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MURDER (86%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); GANGS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: MARK POTOK (72%); MILTON WALKER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



439 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TOWN;
Small G.O.P. Pond Stirs for a Texas-Size Fish

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

DATELINE: RED OAK, Iowa, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Word of the big visit leaked days ago. "I heard rumblings on the street last week," said Jan Castle Renander, editor of the weekly Red Oak Express.
By Monday she had it nailed down, and on Tuesday ran the news at the top of the front page: "George W. Bush Coming to Red Oak." On Wednesday, John Gambs, a government teacher at Red Oak High School, decided that he would push back exams so that his students could meet the candidate. And all day Thursday, Jerry Dietz, owner of and on-air talent for the FM radio station KCSI, was busy beating the drums, telling listeners he would be at the event, and they might want to be, too. 
 So by the time Mr. Bush of Texas and his entourage rolled off Route 48 today and into this welcoming little town dotted with Victorian houses and ringed by cornfields and cattle farms, Red Oak was primed. The Gold Auditorium on the county fairgrounds was festooned with Bush posters, and every seat in the hall was taken. Mayor Karen Blue was there, wearing a Bush sticker. Ms. Renander's husband, Clayton, was there too, having put off feeding the calves to attend, and so was Mr. Dietz's camera-toting assistant, Barb Allen, who chased after her teenage son Brayton, trying to get him in a picture with the candidate.
To the members of the Bush team and the journalists following them, the visit might have been all but indistinguishable from 100 other campaign stops: a not particularly noteworthy media event. But for the people of Red Oak, a town of 6,200 in the hilly farm belt of southwest Iowa, the visit had a deeper impact. It was a moment that made them feel part of a larger process and one they hoped somehow would reflect well on their community in the eyes of a nation that ordinarily does not pay them much attention.
"To a town like ours, this is a very big deal," said Ms. Renander, whose yellowing front-page story about a 1987 visit to Red Oak by Mr. Bush's father, then the vice president, hangs in Mr. Gambs's classroom. "It's seeing him in the flesh, saving the clip from the paper -- something to tell the kids about later on."
Red Oak doesn't make much news. Tucked into a rural corridor, and closer to Omaha than to Des Moines culturally as well as geographically, the town is something of a media afterthought in the coverage of events like the Iowa caucuses. The state paper, The Des Moines Register, stopped home delivery here a few years ago; it is the Nebraska television stations that Red Oak antennas pick up. "The joke around here is no one sees a reporter from The Register unless there's bad news," Ms. Renander said.
No one sees a candidate often, either. "Sometimes, we'll get a wife," Mr. Gambs said. It is understandable, then, that while Des Moines or even Davenport might greet the arrival of a national office-seeker these days with a bit of a yawn, Red Oak is more prone to gasp.
And especially when the candidate is from a well-known Republican family. Red Oak is, after all, a robustly Republican town, the seat of largely Republican Montgomery County, which went for Bob Dole in 1996, when Iowa as a whole went for Bill Clinton. It is a profoundly patriotic place, too. During World War II, town officials say, Red Oak suffered more deaths and injuries per capita among its soldiers overseas than any town in the country, and they are remembered on Veterans and Memorial Days when a cemetery in town is encircled with American flags from 1,000 veterans' coffins.
"This is George W. Bush country," George Maher, a banker and lifelong resident, observed as he took a visitor around, showing off the Red Oak sights. He drove past the old country club and the new YMCA going up; the old factory where in the 1890's the Thomas Murphy Company made the nation's first illustrated calendars, and the newer plants manufacturing auto parts and prefabricated windows and turning corn into tortilla flour for a Mexican company.
Yet if Mr. Bush is a kind of unofficial favorite son here -- "The people I know who are backing him are some of the leaders of the community," Mayor Blue said -- Red Oak is having a slightly more difficult time working up much enthusiasm for the contest. The town has its share of worries. The prices for corn and hogs are severely depressed, and a steady drain of young people has left the area with one of the state's grayest populations. But the county's unemployment rate is 2 percent, the offices and plants are virtually full, and a $10 million bond issue was passed recently for a new elementary school wing and a high school technology laboratory.
In other words, Red Oak is feeling pretty good about itself, not exactly the atmosphere for political introspection or discontent.
"I don't sense that anyone is what I would call excited," Mr. Gambs said. Ms. Blue added that since "everything is going pretty well, except agricultural prices," the race is "still peripheral. And the process starts so far in advance, it's hard to stir up interest and keep it going."
Jack Bell, assistant manager of the Tru Value hardware store on Route 48, said he saw positives and negatives in each Republican contender, and seemed to be looking for something more. He said he found Mr. Bush likable, favored Steve Forbes's flat-tax proposal and respected John McCain's war record. "If only we could pull the good things out of each of them and put them together in one man," he added.
But for today, anyway, the presidency as far as Red Oak was concerned was a one-man race.
"I've heard many, many comments about how lucky we are that he's coming to Red Oak," said Jeanette Peterson, a member of a local Republican women's group. The crowd for the candidate's 8:30 a.m. arrival began gathering in the auditorium an hour before. And by the time Mr. Bush, in a crisp blue suit and red tie, walked briskly to the podium and, framed by a mural depicting an Iowa farm, began to speak, 500 faces were staring back.
"I'm here in Red Oak askin' for the vote," Mr. Bush said, with a bit more country in his voice than can be detected in his television commercials. "I'm askin' for you to do your duty."
He drew applause after he said that being a mother was the toughest job in America, and again when he said, "I trust the people of Iowa to make the right decisions for the children of Iowa."
Mr. Gambs thought he had done pretty well. "He's much better on the stump than he is in the debates, isn't he?" he said.
The crowd swarmed Mr. Bush afterward. He stayed in the hall for another hour or so, posing for pictures and autographing posters. Andrea Jensen, a senior in Mr. Gambs's government class, was surprised by her own reaction. "I didn't think he'd be that funny," she said.
When it was over, Ms. Renander headed back to The Express, with her notes and her camera, and Mr. Dietz, who broadcast live from the Gold Auditorium, pulled up the duct tape that had secured his cable to the floor. Mr. Bush and his retinue motored on to Glenwood, another Iowa town that does not find its name much in the out-of-town papers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Much of Red Oak, Iowa -- even the nonvoting residents -- turned out to welcome Gov. George W. Bush of Texas on a campaign stop last week. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Iowa shows the location of Red Oak: Red Oak, Iowa, does not get noticed much, even by Des Moines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: DES MOINES REGISTER (50%); RED OAK HIGH SCHOOL (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: RED OAK HIGH SCHOOL (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JOURNALISM (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MAYORS (75%); WRITERS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



440 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Symbol of Rural America Fades With a Way of Life

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Iowa, Jan. 12

 BODY:
A place for horses and hay since before the Civil War, the old red barn stands at the edge of a cornfield, with its hand-pegged boards and ladder rungs still covered with bark.
But the horses are long gone. And the old barn is too small to house the huge combines and tractors now used in farming. Sometime next month, a bulldozer will knock it over, and the old boards will be burned. 
 "It's a shame to see the beautiful old barns go, but they're useless," said John Berdo, whose family has been farming here for seven generations. "The old barns are as obsolete as the manual typewriter in the computer age."
Long the epitome of agrarian life, old wood barns are vanishing from the American countryside. They are being replaced by metal storage buildings, which are cheaper and bigger, if short on charm.
Experts on farm life say more than half of the nation's wood barns have already been lost. In Iowa alone, some 1,000 old barns disappear each year, according to Jacqueline Shmeal, a leader of the Iowa Barn Foundation, which raises money for the preservation of the old structures.
"The whole countryside is soon going to look like an industrial park with all of these metal buildings," Ms. Shmeal said. "These barns are America's best example of folk art. It's terrible to lose them."
In large part, the loss of the old barns reflects the declining number of farmers. In 1900, 50 percent of all Americans lived or worked on a farm. A century later, that number has shrunk to less than 1 percent. And farmers today rely on high-powered machines that can be 16 feet tall and 20 feet wide, much too large to be stored in the old wood barns, while livestock is often confined to low-slung metal sheds, which look nothing like the old barns.
The cost of repairing the barns can be prohibitive. Just installing a new roof can cost $20,000 or more. For farmers struggling to survive a terrible drop in corn and soybean prices, such an investment seems foolhardy.
And for preservationist groups trying to keep wood barns around, cost is a big factor, too. There are no official figures on the total number of wood barns preserved, but it is relatively small.
While the old barns tug at their emotions, farmers know the metal barns make more economic sense. And keeping an empty barn, a tempting place for adventurous children, can pose liability hazards.
The old barns have a hallowed place in the history and mythology of rural life. They were, as Henry Ward Beecher wrote in 1869, "the real headquarters of the farm."
More than just storage places, the old barns were places where children played hide-and-seek in hay lofts, where hard-working men sat down at day's end and mapped a plan for the sunrise and where neighbors gathered for a dance.
Lowell Soike, the historian for the State Historical Society of Iowa in Des Moines, recalls his father, Arthur, recounting how, as a teenager, he would play the fiddle at barn dances in rural Minnesota.
"The barn is the biggest thing on the farm," Mr. Soike said. "A lot of farmers, if they had some money, the barn was the first place they spent it, not on the house."
Farmers have not been building wood barns in significant numbers since the 1940's, according to William Kimball, a retired professor at Michigan State University and an adviser to the National Barn Alliance, which promotes saving wood barns.
Most of the nation's old wood barns were built from the 1860's through the 1940's, Mr. Kimball said. In some cases, a neighborhood of farmers would gather and pitch in to help build a barn.
Barns were often painted red because the pigment oxide was cheap and durable, although some farmers, including the Amish, considered red a garish, worldly color and eschewed it, Mr. Kimball said.
In the 1870's, there was a movement toward round or octagonal barns, largely because some farmers "believed there was something sacred in that shape," Mr. Kimball said. Some of the Shaker barns in that shape still stand in New England, he said.
Mr. Kimball, who often speaks to farmer groups, contends that the old barns hold more than just aesthetic and symbolic importance.
"There is a resource here, and it's a lot more valuable than people think," he said. "These barns are easily converted to other uses."
He noted that barns have been turned into houses, offices, theaters and churches. The old wood used on the barns is deemed precious by many antique dealers and crafts workers, Mr. Kimball said, though the preservation process is so time-consuming that it is often not worth the effort to farmers.
The old barn on the Berdo place has withstood too many floods and storms to count. A terrible windstorm in 1998 flattened at least 10 barns here in Washington County.
"I said to my son that morning, 'Maybe the wind has pushed the old thing down and we'll be done with it,' " Mr. Berdo recalled. "But then we rounded the corner and there it stood, picture perfect."
Mr. Berdo said the barn was built by his great-great-grandfather John Winter in the 1850's. Mr. Berdo's father, Charles, who died 11 years ago, had a deep sentimental attachment to the barn, because his own grandfather had worked in the building and his mother, Carrie, had been born in a house nearby.
In the last years of his life, Charles Berdo had tried unsuccessfully to interest the county historical society in refurbishing the barn and keeping it as a museum.
"My dad and I disagreed on the old barn," said Mr. Berdo, whose family keeps a framed painting of the barn in its farmhouse. "I know it's a beautiful landmark, but for what?"
Mr. Berdo, 49, chuckled a bit at the recollection.
"The truth is, my dad was pretty tight," Mr. Berdo said. "So when it came right down to it, I don't think he would have put up the thousands of dollars to save it, either."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I know it's a beautiful landmark, but for what?" John Berdo asks of the barn built by his great-great-grandfather in rural Iowa. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); South of Ames, Iowa, the future, in the form of a new metal storage building, stood next to the past, in the form of two old wooden barns. (Rodney White for The New York Times)(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (69%); CORN MARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM KIMBALL (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



441 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Coming Budget Battle Promises To Feature Riches and Rancor

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
Congress and the Clinton administration are heading into another battle over taxes and spending with a bigger pot of money on the table, no consensus on how to use it and election-year politics complicating the prospects for any compromise.
The outlines of the fight over the 2001 budget are sure to be similar to the standoffs of the last few years, with Republicans pressing for tax cuts, Democrats proposing spending programs and both sides happy to end up on the middle ground of using the federal budget surplus to reduce the national debt. 
 But the battle this year is likely to be magnified by two factors: official projections to be released in the next few weeks that members of both parties said would show the surplus growing significantly larger relative to last year's estimates, and the attention focused on fiscal politics by the presidential campaign, in which the leading candidates are setting out starkly different views of how the nation should use its prosperity.
"There's an awfully big piggy bank for people to play with this year," said Richard E. May, a former Republican staff director for the House Budget Committee.
The first budget tussle of the legislative year is likely to be over how big a surplus the nation should count on over the next decade. Some Republicans want to use one set of numbers that show a particularly sharp increase over previous surplus projections, reflecting the flood of revenues into the Treasury as the economy continues roaring along.
The surplus estimates could change drastically if the economy should turn down. But by some preliminary estimates circulating on Capitol Hill, the portion of the surplus generated by non-Social Security tax receipts could amount to almost $2 trillion over the next decade using the arithmetic favored by those Republicans, nearly twice the 10-year projection made last year. Such projections assume that annually appropriated spending would be cut by tens of billions of dollars this year and then frozen for a decade, an assumption that Democrats consider politically preposterous.
Queasy about the prospect of calling for big spending cuts in an election year, other Republicans, including Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, are considering adopting another set of assumptions, under which spending would be frozen more or less at current levels. Such a step would result in a somewhat lower surplus estimate than the projection that starts with the assumption of a spending cut.
The White House and many Democrats in Congress would prefer to calculate the surplus after accounting for anticipated and already-agreed-to spending increases, yielding a surplus estimate likely to be hundreds of billions of dollars less than either Republican version over the next decade, Democrats said.
"It appears that the surplus projections will be increasing rather than decreasing, and by a fairly significant amount," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. "But we have to make everyone understand the underlying assumptions, which are not realistic."
Then there is likely to be a related fight over whether Congress and the administration should formally drop the spending limits that were adopted a decade ago to help deal with huge budget deficits. Congress evaded the spending caps the last two years through the use of accounting gimmicks amid a tacit understanding on both sides that the limits at their current levels were not politically sustainable in an era of swelling surpluses.
Democrats who have been briefed on the White House's plans said President Clinton was willing to propose scrapping the existing caps, which are scheduled to expire in 2002. But Mr. Clinton might replace the old caps with new, higher limits that would be extended through the rest of the decade, they said.
Administration officials declined to comment on their plan. But they made little secret of their position that the current caps have little value given the way Congress has maneuvered around them.
"The Republicans clearly shredded the budget caps last year with gimmicks and sleight of hand," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic policy adviser. Mr. Clinton's coming budget, he said, would have "a straightforward, fiscally disciplined path that will ensure we pay off the national debt within 15 years."
Some Republican leaders, including Mr. Domenici and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, have signaled that they are open to a deal on resetting the caps, especially if Mr. Clinton takes the first step.
But they face potential resistance from their party's more conservative members, who are sure to object to anything that smacks of a retreat from fiscal discipline, especially in an election year.
Congress made little headway last year in shifting from a system set up to reduce deficits to one for dealing with the prospect of long-running surpluses. The main mechanism for fiscal discipline was a pledge by both parties not to touch any of the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security. The Social Security surplus was projected last year to be $2 trillion over 10 years, and is likely to be higher under projections to be issued by the Congressional Budget Office on Jan. 26.
In the end, the Republican-led Congress passed a budget for the current fiscal year that appeared to spend all of the non-Social Security surplus and to dip $17 billion into the Social Security trust fund.
But the strong economy now appears to be generating enough unanticipated tax revenue to get the Republicans off the hook. In a letter last week to Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader, Mr. Domenici said new calculations by the budget committee show that the government would not have to use any Social Security money in the current year, and indeed would run a non-Social Security surplus of up to $20 billion.
With the surplus continuing to pile up, Republicans remain as committed as ever to tax cuts. In the House, Mr. Kasich is developing a plan under which he would reserve most of the non-Social Security surplus for tax cuts or debt reduction to thwart an end-of-session spending binge.
The result could well be another stalemate, in which some money goes to additional spending and the rest goes to reducing the national debt but neither side gets any major legislation.
"We're in a post-impeachment environment in which Republicans don't work with Democrats," said Stanley E. Collender, managing director of the Federal Budget Consulting Group at Fleishman Hillard, the public relations firm. "And you're in an election year where Democrats think they have a shot at taking over at least the House and are not going to want to give the Republicans anything they want."
Yet some members of both parties take seriously the prospect of a bipartisan deal. They are talking about tradeoffs under which Republicans would get limited tax cuts, like a reduction in the so-called marriage penalty paid by many two-income couples, while Democrats would win the addition of a prescription drug benefit to Medicare.
Republican leaders in the House have already abandoned their call for a single big tax-cutting package and replaced it with a push for a series of smaller tax bills.
For his part, Mr. Clinton appears to be backing away from his insistence that any tax cuts or other big new initiatives await agreement on a plan to assure Social Security's long-term solvency, something that neither party expects to try this year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (64%); HOUSE BUDGET COMMITTEE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (64%); HOUSE BUDGET COMMITTEE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); TAX LAW (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); 

PERSON: JOHN SPRATT (59%); PETE DOMENICI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



442 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Chilean Socialists Triumph In Presidential Election
Ricardo Lagos won a narrow victory over Joaquin Lavin to become the first Socialist president of Chile since President Salvador Allende Gossens was overthrown in 1973. With 99.75 percent of the vote in, Mr. Lagos led Mr. Lavin, a former aide to Gen. Augusto Pinochet, by 51.32 percent to 48.68 percent. A1 

Iran's Nuclear Ability Debated
The Central Intelligence Agency, in a sharp departure from its previous assessment of Iran's nuclear capacity, has told senior Clinton administration officials that Iran might now be able to make a nuclear weapon, according to several United States officials. The new evaluation has touched off a debate about Iran's nuclear capacity, and the C.I.A.'s ability to monitor it. A1
 
Politics May Be Tied to Killing
Serbian authorities provided few details of the assassination on Saturday of Zeljko Raznatovic, a Serbian paramilitary leader who was wanted on war crimes charges in the Bosnian and Croatian wars. But the immediate assumption in Belgrade is that the Milosevic government had ordered and carried out the killing. A3
 
American Held for Serbia Crime
The United States military announced that an American soldier serving with the international peacekeeping force in Kosovo was charged with sexually assaulting and killing an 11-year-old Kosovo Albanian girl. It is the first time a peacekeeper from any country has been accused of such serious crimes since the 50,000 NATO-led peacekeepers entered the province in June. A3
 
Mandela Scolds Burundians
Nelson Mandela began his duties as the new mediator for the conflict in Burundi with an attack on the nation's warring leaders for failing their people and shaming all of Africa. Mr. Mandela said the world is horrified at the number of people who have died since the civil war began in 1993. A4
 
West Bank Withdrawal Delayed
Senior Palestinian officials, reacting to a decision by Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel to postpone a withdrawal from the West Bank, condemned the Israelis, saying they were souring the relationship. Officials said the Prime Minister had not had sufficient time to review the maps and present them to his cabinet for approval. A8
 
NATIONAL A12-15
 
Budget Fight Magnified By Surplus and Campaign
Congress and the Clinton administration are heading into another battle over taxes and spending with a bigger pot of money on the table, no consensus on how to use it and election-year politics complicating the prospects for any compromise. The battle is likely to be magnified by two factors: projections that show the surplus growing significantly larger relative to last year's estimates, and the attention focused on fiscal politics by the presidential campaign. A1
 
Gore's Union Card in Iowa
The heavily unionized work force in the farm-equipment factories and meat-packing plants of Iowa is a major factor behind the Gore camp's confidence that the vice president will win the Jan. 24 caucuses. A1
 
G.O.P. Confident Over Finances
Republican Party leaders did not talk much in public about fund-raising at a winter meeting in San Jose, Calif., but when they did discuss the party's finances, they seemed supremely confident. The party has a budget of $177 million this year, and has $10 million in the bank. A15
 
Bradley as Follower of King
Bill Bradley, who has made an appeal for racial unity one of the pillars of his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, said that the job the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. began was far from finished and that strong leadership from the White House would help bring it to a speedy conclusion. A14
 
Bush Makes Imprint on Town
Gov. George W. Bush's visit to Red Oak, Iowa, might have been all but indistinguishable from 100 other campaign stops to the members of the Bush team and the journalists following them. But for the people of Red Oak, a town of 6,200, the visit had a deeper impact. A14
 
Joint Stance on Cuban Boy
The president of the Cuban National Assembly and the White House chief of staff both urged Congress not to interfere in the question of returning Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. Both spoke against a proposal that Congress grant the 6-year-old boy American citizenship. A12
 
New Rules on Biotech Corn
The Environmental Protection Agency has announced new regulations aimed at reducing the risks from corn genetically engineered to produce its own insecticide. The decision was seen by many as an acknowledgment of the rising concern over the safety of biotech crops. A14
 
Razing of Wood Barns
Long the epitome of agrarian life, old wood barns are being replaced by metal storage buildings, which are cheaper and bigger. John Berdo, whose family has been farming in Washington, Iowa, for seven generations, said the wood barns were "as obsolete as the manual typewriter in the computer age." His barn is to go next month. A1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Turning Out for O'Connor, From All Walks of the City
New Yorkers honored Cardinal John O'Connor this weekend, as much in loving farewell as in celebration of his 80th birthday. Some turned out in tuxedos, furs and jewels for a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising dinner on Saturday night, and others trekked to St. Patrick's Cathedral by subway from neighborhoods all across the city yesterday morning. B1
 
Verdict Felt on King's Day
Hundreds of commemorations are planned to honor the life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., as they are every year. But this year's national holiday comes just weeks after a Memphis jury decided that Dr. King was not the victim of a gunman acting alone, but was instead the victim of a far-reaching conspiracy that included the United States government. B1
 
Well Owners Sue Gas Industry
A group of well owners has sued the gasoline industry, trying to force it to pay to clean contaminated water sources, amid growing concern that a gasoline ingredient intended to make the air cleaner is now polluting water. B6
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
EDUCATION
 
New Breed of Truants
The troubled truants who looked for pornography or fake ID cards or drugs at Times Square have been replaced by even more students of all kinds from around the metropolitan region, who are cutting classes to seek out the relatively wholesome alternatives offered by corporate America in the new Times Square, police officials say. A1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Miami's Head Coach Resigns
Jimmy Johnson, left, stepped down a day after the Dolphins endured a 62-7 defeat in the National Football League playoffs. Dave Wannstedt, the team's assistant head coach, was named his replacement. D1
 
Rams and Titans Advance
The St. Louis Rams rode a stunning 35-0 scoring spree in the second half to defeat the Minnesota Vikings, 49-37, in a National Football Conference playoff game. In the American Football Conference, a favored Indianapolis Colts team, playing before a rabid home crowd, was beaten by the Tennessee Titans, 19-16. D1
 
ARTS E1-16
 
Coin Society Still Plans Cuts
The American Numismatic Society has declined to back away from a plan to reduce its staff of five curators, despite heavy criticism from angry members at a meeting. E3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Drug Rivals to Merge
The British drugmaker Glaxo Wellcome agreed to buy one of its chief rivals, SmithKline Beecham, for about $76 billion, creating the world's largest pharmaceutical company, executives close to the talks said. The combined company would be called Glaxo SmithKline. A1
 
Israel Approves Bank Chief
The Israeli cabinet, over the public objections of the finance minister, narrowly approved Prime Minister Ehud Barak's choice of a conservative central bank economist, David Klein, above, as the bank's next governor. C2
 
Wrestling Group Wins Name
The World Wrestling Federation has won back rights to the use of its name in cyberspace, in the first case testing a new international forum for resolving disputes over Internet domain names. A panel of the World Intellectual Property Organization, an arm of the United Nations, handed down the ruling on Friday. C4
 
Linux Vendor to Get Investment
TurboLinux, a Linux operating system vendor, will receive a $57 million investment from Dell Computer, Compaq Computer, Intel and other American firms. C11
 
Akamai Opens in Silicon Valley
Akamai Technologies, which had one of last year's hottest Internet stock offerings, has expanded beyond its base in Cambridge, Mass. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
Estrongo Nachama
The chief cantor of the Berlin Jewish community was 81. An Auschwitz survivor, he did as much as anyone to revive Jewish life in the city after Hitler destroyed it. B7
 
Rev. James Francis Maguire
The chancellor emeritus of Loyola University of Chicago was 95. B7
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Republican tax cut plans; when prisoners have H.I.V.; Bill Berkeley on Africa.
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E14
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E15
 
TV Listings E16
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BURUNDI (92%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BURUNDI (92%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); CROATIA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACEKEEPING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); HOMICIDE (73%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WAR CRIMES (67%); BUDGETS (64%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



443 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE UNIONS;
Secret Weapon In Gore Camp: Unions in Iowa

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Al Gore can be thankful that this state is more than an unending field of corn.
Punctuating the prairies that most Americans see as the essence of this state are dozens of industrial plants that serve the agricultural economy, and the heavily unionized work force in these farm-equipment factories and meat-packing plants is a major factor behind the Gore camp's confidence that the vice president will win Iowa's Jan. 24 caucuses, the first big test in this year's presidential campaign. 
 In Iowa's caucuses, success traditionally turns on who has the best organization, and the state's 150,000-member labor movement, because it is so big and well-organized, gives Mr. Gore an extra weapon to use against his Democratic rival, former Senator Bill Bradley.
"The Democratic Party in Iowa depends on the activism of organized labor," said Hugh Winebrenner, a political expert at Drake University. "Labor will play a very significant role in the caucuses. Usually, the caucuses are a low-turnout event, and in a low-turnout event labor's impact is maximized."
Notwithstanding labor's anger with the Clinton administration's trade policies, Iowa's union movement has gone into overdrive over the past two weeks with the goal of giving Mr. Gore a convincing caucus victory.
With the A.F.L.-C.I.O. having endorsed Mr. Gore in October, over the opposition of the teamsters and auto workers, the Iowa caucuses are shaping up as a major test not just for Mr. Gore, but for John J. Sweeney, the labor federation's president.
To pump up turnout, Mr. Sweeney's foot soldiers have telephoned more than 30,000 union members who are registered Democrats. The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees has sent out four separate pro-Gore mailings to its 12,000 members in the state -- and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has done three additional mailings to union members. The organization has even mailed out 30,000 five-minute videos in which Mr. Sweeney urges union members to participate in the caucuses while telling them, "Al Gore is America's foremost champion of today's unions."
But labor's push has stumbled into two formidable problems. Two of the state's biggest unions -- the auto workers and the teamsters -- are not campaigning for Mr. Gore and have asked the A.F.L.-C.I.O. not to urge their members to back the vice president. Second, many union members cannot get excited about Mr. Gore and seem to care more about Monday Night Football than about the Monday night caucuses.
"I'm leaning toward Gore, but I'm getting tired of the whole process," said Gary Mobley, a member of the United Steelworkers of America who said he would not attend a caucus. "This is all taking place far too long before the election."
On Thursday, at the state A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s aging, brick headquarters, a half-dozen union members -- working at a phone bank beneath the original, century-old charter that Samuel Gompers signed to set up Iowa's labor federation -- were using one of the oldest tricks in labor's electoral playbook. (They were also following one of Mr. Gompers's maxims: "Stand faithfully by our friends and elect them.")
First, the callers asked the hundreds of union members they contacted whether they supported Mr. Gore or Mr. Bradley.
If the union members said they backed Mr. Bradley, the callers said thank you and hung up. But if the union members favored Mr. Gore, they were exhorted to attend the caucuses.
And if Gore supporters said they would miss the caucuses because they had to attend a child's basketball game or swim meet, the callers turned on the hard sell, warning that missing the caucuses was tantamount to voting against Mr. Gore.
"It's much harder to get people to go out to the caucuses than to vote in a primary," said Mark Smith, a former economics professor who is president of the state's A.F.L.-C.I.O. "You're asking people to make a two-hour commitment at a school or somewhere when the wind chill might be 46 below."
The youngest generation of union members is hardly familiar with the process because labor has not shepherded its flocks to the caucuses since 1984, the last time the A.F.L.-C.I.O. endorsed a candidate in the Democratic presidential primaries. That year, labor backed Vice President Walter F. Mondale over Senator Gary Hart.
At this year's 2,142 precinct caucuses, to be held in schools, town halls and homes, Iowans will be asked to move to one part of a room to show support for their candidate. To familiarize union members with this awkward process, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is organizing mock caucuses in Cedar Rapids, Davenport, Waterloo and 10 other cities.
Mr. Smith said 100,000 of Iowa's union members are registered to vote, 20,000 as Republicans, 30,000 as independents and 50,000 as Democrats, accounting for one-tenth of Iowa's Democrats. But by mobilizing their masses, labor officials hope union members will represent far more than one-tenth of the participants in the Democratic caucuses.
Mr. Smith said that when Democratic union members were polled about candidates, 50 percent said they were undecided or gave no answer, 30 percent backed Mr. Gore, 15 percent supported Mr. Bradley and 5 percent favored others, ranging from the Rev. Jesse Jackson to Patrick J. Buchanan.
Labor's program, he explained, is straightforward, to remind union members that Mr. Gore has supported labor on many issues, opposing Medicare cuts, backing a higher minimum wage, refusing to cross a picket line during a strike at ABC. The next step is to mobilize Gore supporters to attend the caucuses, an effort that has involved shop stewards talking to workers and knocking on union members' doors.
"There's no magic bullet," Mr. Smith said. "It's like Woody Hayes, the Ohio State football coach, used to say, 'Three yards and a cloud of dust.' You don't have to dream up anything fancy."
Labor's pro-Gore push has revved up many members. Mark Rocha, a service delivery coordinator with US West, said he would definitely support Mr. Gore. "The vice president has always been an ally of the Communications Workers, on family issues, on the right to organize," he said. "True, he doesn't knock my socks off, but I'm not looking for that. He's upbeat. He's strong."
The state's union leaders voice confidence that labor will make an impressive caucus showing -- and the Bradley campaign has acknowledged as much, perhaps to lower expectations for Iowa.
"Labor has the potential to make a big difference," said Eric Hauser, spokesman for the Bradley campaign. "Their organized clout is real. Senator Bradley tried to get their attention and support, but they went the other way. We respect that."
Mr. Bradley has periodically visited Iowa union halls in the hope of reaching out directly to members. But his efforts have been undercut by several union mailings that have hammered him, accusing him of supporting school vouchers and raising the age for Social Security -- accusations the Bradley campaign says are inaccurate.
Notwithstanding their attacks on Mr. Bradley, union leaders say their members are generally fond of the New Jerseyan and would have little problem backing him if he won the nomination.
"If Gore doesn't survive the process, we'll endorse someone else and rally the troops for that person," said Dan Albritton, the steelworkers' political director for Iowa. "If it's Bradley versus George W. Bush, it's easy because there are such clear-cut differences. Bush is totally antilabor as far as I'm concerned. We wouldn't have problems getting our people fired up if the dog catcher ran against George W. Bush."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Theresa Malin, left, and Donna Mollis, union members, working the phone banks at the Iowa Federation of Labor in Des Moines. (Rodney White for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DRAKE UNIVERSITY (56%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LABOR UNIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (72%); COUNTIES (66%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (57%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



444 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Tells Clinton An Iranian A-Bomb Can't Be Ruled Out

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN with JUDITH MILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
In a sharp departure from its previous assessment of Iran's nuclear capacity, the Central Intelligence Agency has told senior Clinton administration officials that Iran might now be able to make a nuclear weapon, according to several United States officials.
George Tenet, director of central intelligence, began briefings in December about the agency's new assessment, shortly after the document was completed, the officials said. The new evaluation has touched off a sharp debate about Iran's nuclear capacity, and the C.I.A.'s ability to monitor it. 
 C.I.A. officials refused to comment on the new assessment. But the more ominous evaluation of Iran's nuclear capacity, which was described to The New York Times by American officials, is apparently not based on evidence that Iran's indigenous efforts to build a bomb have achieved a breakthrough.
Rather, it seems to be based on the fact that the United States cannot track with great certainty increased efforts by Iran to acquire nuclear materials and technology on the international black market, mainly from the former Soviet Union, the officials said.
The C.I.A. has found it difficult to track such transactions, and thus the assessment has been carefully hedged by its analysts. Washington has also made little headway with efforts to weaken the longstanding strategic relationship between Iran and Russia, which is brimming with nuclear weapons and stockpiles of the fissile material Tehran needs to make a nuclear bomb.
The agency has told policy makers that it is not certain that Iran actually has atomic weapons now. Instead, the new assessment says that the C.I.A. can no longer rule out the possibility that Iran has acquired them, in contrast to previous assessments that excluded that possibility.
Even with those caveats, the C.I.A.'s new assessment has prompted strong debate within the government. The new analysis is being disputed by Clinton administration policy makers and some analysts at other American intelligence agencies who believe that Iran's efforts to build its own bomb are still moving slowly, American officials say.
They say there is no evidence that Iran has succeeded in building its own weapon, or that it has stolen or acquired enough fissile material to make one.
The C.I.A. began to warn policy makers nearly a decade ago that Iran was likely to have nuclear weapons around the turn of the century. Now that the new century has arrived, the agency is offering a cautious warning that it can no longer be sure whether Iran has made more progress on its atomic program than previously believed.
Senior Clinton administration officials have tried to play down the significance of the C.I.A.'s new assessment, apparently eager to avoid damaging efforts toward rapprochement with Iran's reformist leader, President Mohammad Khatami.
One view held by some Clinton administration officials is that the new assessment is an attempt by C.I.A. analysts to avoid criticism in the future for failing to warn policy makers if Iran someday joins the ranks of states with nuclear weapons. The officials believe that the agency has been singed by criticism after previous intelligence failures: missing signs that India was about to test a nuclear weapon in 1998, and being surprised by the advanced state of Iraq's nuclear program, revealed after the Persian Gulf war of 1991.
In view of the debate over the new C.I.A. assessment, officials are now considering whether to order a formal National Intelligence Estimate, which would call for all of the agencies in the intelligence community to contribute to a governmentwide appraisal of Tehran's nuclear capacity.
The latest C.I.A. assessment implicitly acknowledges what many American officials say is a severe problem for the United States: the shortcomings of intelligence about both the Iranian program and the spread on the black market of weapons-grade fissile material from the former Soviet Union.
In effect, C.I.A. analysts are warning that, given Iran's intensive efforts to steal or buy highly enriched uranium and plutonium, it is possible that it may have more bomb-grade material than previously believed.
The scientific and technical know-how to build a bomb is useless without sufficient quantities of highly enriched uranium or plutonium, the "fissile material" at the heart of an atomic weapon.
It has proven extraordinarily difficult for countries like Iran and Iraq to generate enough material to make a bomb on their own. Western analysts say that the most likely sources are the stockpiles of Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union.
Ukraine and Kazakhstan, both of which had nuclear weapons or related materials and technology on their territory during Soviet times, have renounced weapons of mass destruction.
In 1992, Kazakhstan rebuffed efforts by Iran to buy beryllium from a storage site that also contained more than 600 kilograms of highly enriched uranium, enough to make dozens of nuclear bombs. Two years later, Washington secretly flew the fuel out of the country to prevent Iran and other would-be nuclear powers from acquiring it.
But Russia, still brimming with stockpiles of nuclear fuel and weapons related technology, has long sold sensitive nuclear and missile technology to Iran, and assisted Tehran's civilian atomic energy program over objections from Washington, which fears that Iran's domestic nuclear power program is being used to develop indigenous weapons.
The Clinton administration's concerns that Russia might be broadening its nuclear trade with Iran to include heavy water and graphite technology led the United States a year ago to impose sanctions against two Russian scientific institutions.
After the sanctions were imposed, Iran denied that it was cooperating with such institutions to develop missiles and nuclear weapons. Last March, Yevgeny Adamov, Russia's atomic energy industry minister, said Russia would continue its commercial nuclear cooperation with Iran, especially its program to help Iran complete two large reactors at Bushehr, one of which was damaged in the Iran-Iraq war.
Just last Friday, Russia's defense minister met with a top Iranian security official and pledged to maintain Moscow's military ties with Tehran.
"Russia intends to maintain the dynamics of its bilateral ties with Iran in the military, military-technical, scientific-technical and energy fields," said Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev, according to the Interfax news service.
Russian officials have denied that Moscow is helping Iran develop nuclear weapons.
Iran also steadfastly denies that it has a nuclear weapons program. Since 1970, its diplomats say, it has been a member in good standing of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which bars states without nuclear weapons from acquiring them, and also requires that civilian atomic facilities be inspected by international observers.
But Iran has continued expanding its nuclear power sector even though it is among the world's largest oil producers. Along with uranium deposits, a uranium-ore concentration facility and two research reactors, Iran has two nuclear research centers, including one in the central Iranian city of Isfahan, where American analysts believe that Iran is trying to make the explosive core of an atomic device.
Soon after Mr. Khatami was elected president in 1997, Iran replaced the head of its atomic energy program, Reza Amrollahi, who was widely seen as incompetent, with Gholamreza Aghazadeh, a former oil and gas minister who is regarded as a better manager and politically connected. Iran's program, however, is still viewed as deeply troubled, American officials say.
In addition to nuclear assistance, the United States believes that Russian companies and other organizations have provided Tehran with critical technology related to the development of ballistic missiles that could carry nuclear weapons. In a national intelligence assessment issued last year, the American intelligence community said it believed that by 2010 Iran, using Russian technology and assistance, might test a missile that could reach targets in the United States.
Assessments about foreign nuclear programs have always been highly contentious, largely because of the sensitive diplomatic and political issues they raise. American intelligence officials knew for years, for example, that India and Pakistan were close to becoming nuclear powers, even as successive American administrations chose not to acknowledge that publicly for fear of damaging other American economic and political interests in the region.
The United States also has not officially acknowledged that Israel has long had nuclear weapons.
But the debate over Iran's nuclear program has been more about facts than politics, with concern mounting steadily in the last decade. With limited intelligence about the Iranian program and Russian nuclear proliferation, the intelligence agencies have been reluctant to draw hard conclusions about Iran's nuclear potential.
In 1992, for example, The New York Times reported that a draft C.I.A. report said Iran could develop a nuclear weapon by 2000. The next year, the agency calculated that Iran could develop a nuclear weapon in 8 to 10 years, according to a paper by W. Seth Carus, a defense analyst at the National Defense University.
In 1995, another C.I.A. assessment concluded that Iran was three to five years from having a nuclear weapon, according to a knowledgeable former American official. But the former official criticized the analysis for relying too heavily on information from Israeli intelligence, which has had an interest in convincing the United States that Iran poses a strategic threat.
There is, however, widespread agreement that Iran intends to acquire nuclear weapons.
David Albright, a nuclear analyst in Washington, said that Iran would inevitably intensify efforts to acquire nuclear weapons in response to Iraq's activities. Although it agreed this week to permit very limited international inspections of its nuclear facilities, Iraq, Iran's historic regional rival, has refused to permit inspections for more than a year.
"Iran has made it clear that it will not be the last major country in the region to develop nuclear weapons," Mr. Albright said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russia's defense minister, Igor Sergeyev, right, met with Iran's Security Council secretary, Khasan Roukhani, last week and delivered Moscow's pledge to maintain its military and scientific ties with Tehran. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN (88%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN (88%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



445 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 16;Column 1;Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
A Good Time for Candor About Africa's Leaders

BYLINE: By BILL BERKELEY

 BODY:
The Clinton administration and its new representative at the United Nations, Richard Holbrooke, have embarked on a laudable month-long effort to focus the world's attention on the multiple overlapping crises in Africa. In using its presidency of the Security Council to schedule debates on Angola, Congo and Burundi in particular, the administration brings a long-overdue sense of urgency to these ruinous conflicts. But an opportunity for productive American leadership will be lost if the debates do not include a candid recognition that some of Washington's allies in the region are compounding the very problems it now seeks to resolve.
It seems only yesterday that the United States was hailing the advent of a "new generation" of African leaders bent on rooting out the corrupt and brutal era of strongman politics that had blighted the continent for a generation. President Clinton produced the climactic moment during his tour of Africa in April 1998. At a meeting in Uganda with six of these new-found allies, he embraced the "new generation" as harbingers of an "African renaissance." 
 Within months of Mr. Clinton's visit, alas, nearly all of these leaders were at war with one another. Laurent Kabila of Congo, who had liberated that vast nation from America's longtime cold-war client, Mobutu Sese Seko, turned out to be a predatory thug. Then the dean of the "new generation," Uganda's Yoweri Museveni, and his protege, Rwanda's Paul Kagame, who had backed Mr. Kabila's war against Mr. Mobutu, grew disillusioned with their progeny and launched yet another armed insurrection to replace him -- yielding the present intractable conflict that has drawn in a half-dozen surrounding nations and now counts civilian casualties in the hundreds of thousands.
In the Horn of Africa, meanwhile, Issaias Afwerki of Ethiopia and Meles Zenawi of Eritrea, two charismatic former guerrilla allies, set upon each other in a remote border conflict that has claimed tens of thousands of lives in trench combat reminiscent of World War I.
What went wrong? For all their impressive talk, our African allies had little in common apart from their success at beating discredited predecessors at their own game. They all achieved power through the use of force, and that is how they are inclined to hold onto it. Ultimately they, no less than those whom they ousted, are accountable to no one save their own armed constituencies.
Washington was understandably eager to do business with a new generation of articulate leaders who at least embraced market-oriented economic reforms if not democratic systems of accountability. Mr. Museveni, to his credit, had brought a welcome measure of stability to his own war-battered country. General Kagame drew sympathy as a leader of Rwanda's decimated Tutsis after the genocide of 1994. But the Clinton administration has been slow to come to terms with the fact that all these men have shown a recklessness with the lives of defenseless civilians that is the hallmark of men grown accustomed to unaccountable power. The names and faces have changed, but the nature of the game is the same.
Even the best-intentioned among them are now trapped in Macbethian logic, compelled to shed ever more blood merely to survive.
The administration has belatedly distanced itself from Mr. Kabila in Congo, but it remains closely identified with Mr. Museveni and General Kagame, even as they have launched or provoked one bloodbath after another. It has rarely rebuked them for their recklessness, maintaining strong diplomatic, military and economic ties that have left the impression in Africa that they enjoy unwavering American support. In turn, they have behaved as if they believed they had carte blanche to pursue their dangerous adventures.
President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright have forthrightly acknowledged America's cold-war complicity with tyrants and warlords across the continent whose crimes paved the way for today's conflicts. The list is lamentably long: Mr. Mobutu in Zaire, Samuel Doe in Liberia, Gafaar al-Nimeiry in Sudan, Mohammed Siad Barre in Somalia and the Angolan rebel Jonas Savimbi, who now perpetuates a pointless war with the benefit of diamond smuggling revenue. But the administration has been slower to recognize that a well-intentioned effort to forge special relationships with less malevolent but no more accountable leaders has failed to arrest their destructive tendencies.
Mr. Holbrooke has called on Congo's warring parties to comply with a peace agreement that has languished since last July. His appeal will amount to little if Washington does not also clearly signal to its closest allies that at long last it is ready to use its considerable diplomatic and economic influence to hold them accountable. This is not just a policy prescription from afar. It is what Africans themselves across a broad spectrum are daily risking their lives and livelihoods for: accountable government and the rule of law. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Correction
An Editorial Observer on Monday transposed the names of the leaders of Eritrea and Ethiopia. Issaias Afwerki is president of Eritrea. Meles Zenawi is prime minister of Ethiopia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (92%); UGANDA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (92%); UGANDA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); WORLD WAR I (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); MELES ZENAWI (79%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000



446 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD;
Mysterious Illnesses Often Turn Out to Be Mass Hysteria

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D. 

 BODY:
The phenomenon can be frightening and is more common than most doctors believe.
A person smells or tastes something funny and soon complains of feeling ill. Minutes later, witnesses also feel strange. The outbreak spreads like a chain reaction. Many go to a hospital. But after physical examinations and dozens of blood tests, nothing significant shows up. Health officials are summoned but find no cause. A few days later, relapses and possibly a new wave of attacks may occur. When the all-clear is given, the diagnosis is mass hysteria, also known as epidemic hysteria, mass psychogenic illness and mass sociogenic illness. 
 Stampedes of anxiety can spread rapidly among healthy people. Outbreaks have occurred around the world since at least the 14th century. In past eras, some were triggered by thoughts of demons, possessed states and religious events. Nowadays, the triggers are usually fears of exposure to hazardous substances and pollution.
Initially, outbreaks of mass hysteria can be difficult to distinguish from bioterrorism, rapidly spreading infection and acute exposure to a toxin or other environmental hazard. And rising public concern about biological terrorism and rapid spread of news of outbreaks over the Internet are likely to increase the challenge, if not frequency, of mass hysteria for health officials.
There is no standard definition because the range of symptoms is so vast. It includes headache, nausea, vomiting, light-headedness, fainting, anxiety, numbness, tingling and even spasms of laughter. Although death rarely occurs, if ever, onlookers have summoned priests to give last rites.
Mass hysteria tends to occur at schools, hospitals, other workplaces and small communities, and can trickle on for weeks. For unknown reasons, women are affected more often than men. No one knows how many incidents occur because they are rarely described in scientific journals.
Dr. Matthew Cartter, an official of the Connecticut Department of Health, said skeptical editors and scientists rejected a report of a mass hysteria outbreak that he submitted to medical journals in 1986. Dr. Cartter said he concluded that "some reports like mass hysteria are better told as stories than as scientific studies."
An exception is a 1998 outbreak in a high school in McMinnville, Tenn., where 170 students and teachers ended up in the hospital, according to a report in Jan. 13 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.
Beyond the costs of caring for patients and investigating outbreaks, mass hysteria often has political, social and economic implications. For instance, in Belgium last summer, 250 people, including many schoolchildren, complained of sickness after drinking Coca-Cola. The incident prompted the biggest recall (2.5 million bottles) in Coke's 113-year history and cost the company at least $200 million.
Although most children in Belgium recovered quickly, parents say that some still suffer from headaches, knee pain and exhaustion. The outbreak "was no psychological or mass hysteria," the director of one affected Belgian school said, but some doctors suspect otherwise.
"Certainly, it has had some hallmarks of mass hysteria," said Dr. William Schaffner, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt Medical School in Nashville and a member of the team that investigated the Tennessee outbreak.
Mass hysteria outbreaks have affected school choruses, day care centers, jazz festivals, marching bands and train passengers.
A mass hysteria outbreak occurred during a true epidemic of poliomyelitis in Los Angeles in 1934 when nurses caring for the patients at Los Angeles County Hospital thought they, too, had developed polio.
In 1944, a flurry of people in Mattoon, Ill., reported becoming paralyzed after a man squirted them with a gas. The police failed to catch the man, who became known as the "mad gasser of Mattoon." In 1956, a report in The Lancet raised the possibility that staff members of a hospital in London had developed a new type of encephalitis. But a re-analysis of the cases published in 1970 in The British Medical Journal showed that the outbreak was mass hysteria, a diagnosis the Lancet authors had not considered.
In seeking to distinguish between symptoms caused by poisons and mass hysteria, doctors seek certain clues. For example, people exposed to an irritant gas usually cough and have reddened eyes and irritation of other mucous membranes. But those involved in mass hysteria generally do not.
Even when doctors suspect that their patients suffer from mass hysteria, they must examine all to be sure that one or two do not have an organic illness.
Mass hysteria is generally diagnosed by excluding all known infectious and noxious agents, a costly process. So, experts debate whether limits should be put on investigating each outbreak, particularly when the diagnosis is suspected from the beginning.
Mass hysteria illustrates the well-known difficulties of proving and disproving a negative. For example, not doing a thorough investigation invites concern that the "true" cause was overlooked and possible legal action. Yet because mass hysteria is such an emotionally charged problem, a detailed investigation that does not verify suspicions of a poisonous gas may still fail to satisfy those involved.
Because published reports of mass hysteria have rarely discussed treatment, doctors are unsure how to tell patients that no organic cause could be found for their symptoms. The presence of ambulances, television cameras and workers in protective clothing can all add to the anxiety, confirming suspicions of a dangerous situation, experts say. And the anxiety may be rekindled when officials make inquiries after the symptoms disappear.
Publicity also contributes to the outbreaks. So experts are uncertain how public anxiety should be alleviated.
A major puzzle is why so few textbooks and medical schools deal with the phenomenon. Dr. Schaffner said he could find only one reference in standard textbooks, a single sentence referring to the Salem witch trials. So Dr. Schaffner urged his team to publish an account of the high school outbreak that occurred on Nov. 12, 1998, to raise awareness of the problem among health workers.
Shortly after a teacher said she smelled gasoline in her classroom at the school in McMinnville, Tenn., she experienced a headache, nausea, shortness of breath and dizziness. As the classroom was being evacuated, students and staff members complained of similar symptoms. A fire alarm was sounded and the school was evacuated. Emergency medical crews put the teacher and several students in ambulances in view of other students and teachers.
Soon, 80 students and 19 staff members with similar symptoms went to the emergency room at a local hospital. For most of them, symptoms disappeared after they left the school premises and breathed oxygen. The teacher and 37 others were admitted; doctors found no organic cause of their symptoms.
After the fire department, gas company, and officials the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health found no problem in the school, it was reopened on Nov. 17. But that day, a new wave of symptoms occurred, and another 71 people went to the emergency room.
Government agencies were summoned for an even more exhaustive investigation. Epidemiologists found that 69 percent of those affected in the outbreak were female. In comparison, 52 percent of the overall school population of 1,825 students and 140 staff members were female.
One-fourth of those affected reported a fever; but an elevated temperature was documented in only one, and it was 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Of the 186 ill, 120 or 65 percent reported an unusual odor at the school and they used more than 30 words such as sweet, burning and sewer gas to describe it in a questionnaire. Those ill were from 49 different locations in the school.
But health workers who scoured the premises could identify no gas or other hazardous substance to account for the symptoms or odor.
The team did not include a psychologist or psychiatrist because members did not know one locally with expertise in the problem or what that person's role would be.
Although those involved in mass hysteria experience real symptoms, which persist in some, the individuals are usually not re-examined to determine the long-term effects.
Writing in the scientific journal Epidemiologic Reviews in 1997, Dr. Leslie P. Boss, a Niosh official, observed: "Often no attempt to understand the illness further is made beyond publishing the results of the investigation. Failure to do so may result in the inability of health officials to prevent further outbreaks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Medics aided one of 99 students and teachers overcome in a 1998 outbreak of mass hysteria at a high school in McMinnville, Tenn. (Courtesy of The Southern Standard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (85%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (85%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MASS HYSTERIA DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); CHILDREN (86%); HOSPITALS (78%); EPIDEMICS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K MATTHEW CARTTER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



447 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Commission Disputes That Bertelsmann Was Nazi Foe

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
A year after Bertelsmann, the German media conglomerate, appointed an independent group of scholars to examine its disputed history during the Nazi era, the commission issued a preliminary report yesterday that took issue with corporate lore that the Nazis closed the publishing company because of its political opposition.
The four-member commission's tentative conclusion was that Bertelsmann was closed simply because its product was not considered critically "important for the war" effort. The group also found that one of the early family leaders of the company, Heinrich Mohn, belonged to a circle of "sponsoring members of the SS" and that the small company rose remarkably to become the dominant publisher of reading material for German soldiers. 
 The commission, a mix of German and American scholars, indicated that little research had been done on what they called the "SS sponsors circle." But it said that the organization was made up of members who took no oath of allegiance to Hitler, were not required to serve on active duty in a unit and were not subject to the SS's physical and racial standards. The commission said it appeared their primary duty was to contribute money to the SS every month.
Mr. Mohn's links to the SS came to light in 1998 with critical articles about Bertelsmann's corporate history in the Swiss magazine Die Weltwoche and in the Nation in the United States. After those articles, Bertelsmann's new chief executive, Thomas Middelhoff, announced that the company would create an independent commission to study its history.
Bertelsmann is the third-largest media conglomerate in the world with more than 600 far-flung companies and nearly 60,000 employees in more than 50 countries. The company, based in Gutersloh, owns the largest trade publisher in the United States, Random House, the record company BMG Entertainment and Gruner Jahr, which publishes magazines like McCall's and Family Circle.
With the release of the commission's preliminary findings at a news conference at the University of Munich, Mr. Middelhoff also issued a brief statement about the commission's finding about the reason Bertelsmann was closed in 1944.
"We regret that this fact was unknown to us before and that our corporate history has in part been misrepresented as a result," he said. Previously Mr. Middelhoff had acknowledged that during the Nazi era "there were clearly some titles published by Bertelsmann which were not consistent with our values."
Heinrich Mohn was the fourth generation in his family to lead Bertelsmann, but it was his son, Reinhard, who took over the company in 1947 and ultimately set the tone for the expansion and contemporary philosophy of Bertelsmann, which prides itself on a decentralized system that allows its units to operate relatively independently.
The commission, which was led by Saul Friedlander, a historian from the University of California at Los Angeles, also examined Bertelsmann's efforts to publish Wehrmacht-edition propaganda books for German troops during World War II. All those books had to be produced under the strict supervision of the Propaganda Ministry and included thrillers, home-and-hearth novels and tales of war experiences on the front.
Bertelsmann's involvement in this form of publishing had been only sketchily known, the commission said. It noted yesterday that Bertelsmann's earnings increased by a factor of 11 in just a few years, from 284,191 marks in 1938 to 3,259,730 marks in 1941. The company probably manufactured and delivered more than a quarter of about 75 million copies of Wehrmacht-edition books, the commission said. "This leading role on the part of a relatively small and politically less than prominent firm in the war economy's officially supervised book market appears remarkable," it noted in its report. "No other press so extensively furnished the German soldiers with reading matter."
The commission will continue through the next year to study questions left unresolved by its early findings. For example, it intends to study more fully the motivations of Heinrich Mohn, who after the war explained that "on occasion in earlier years" he had contributed small sums to the Nazi Party "in order to be left alone." The total amount of his donations is unclear, although the commission found evidence that he contributed to the Adolf Hitler Charity fund, the Nazi Winter Charity and the German Red Cross. He also gave money to Nazi youth organizations like the Flyers' Group of Hitler Youth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG BERTELSMANN AG (95%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45) APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); HISTORY (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PHILOSOPHY (68%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN; MOHN, HEINRICH THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



448 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: MAN IN THE NEWS: Ricardo Lagos Escobar;
A Chilean Socialist in the Clinton-Blair Mold

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Jan. 17

 BODY:
As President-elect Ricardo Lagos Escobar mounted the stage on Sunday night to celebrate his victory with a throng of his supporters, Socialists in the crowd chanted a leftist slogan that was a favorite when Salvador Allende wore the presidential sash back in the early 1970's: "The people united will never be defeated!"
At another point in the festivities, the crowd called on Mr. Lagos to bring Gen. Augusto Pinochet to justice after his expected eventual return to Chile from Britain, where he has been under house arrest on human rights charges for 15 months. 
 But after the 61-year-old economist and lawyer acknowledged the presence of Dr. Allende's widow, he delivered a carefully crafted message that struck more moderate chords than at least some in the crowd had come to hear. It was the speech of a veteran politician whose politics have long been more moderate than those of his fellow Chilean Socialists.
On the subject of the former dictator, Mr. Lagos interrupted the crowd's chants by promising to let any future prosecution of General Pinochet run its course in the courts without his interference. He warmly complimented his adversary, Joaquin Lavin, a former aide to General Pinochet. And he promised to forge a government that is tolerant and respects the human rights of all.
"This is not a defeat for anyone," Mr. Lagos said. "I will be the president of all Chileans. I want to resolve the pains that still remain from the century that just ended."
Mr. Lagos will be inaugurated in March as the first Socialist president of Chile since Dr. Allende was overthrown in the violent coup in 1973 led by General Pinochet and backed by the United States. His presidency will almost certainly be very different from Dr. Allende's.
In part that is because he will be governing in a coalition with the more conservative Christian Democratic Party; Dr. Allende's coalition included the Communist Party. But Mr. Lagos has long been a Western European-style social democrat, even through the 1970's and 1980's when other leaders of his party embraced Marxism and the Cuban revolution.
To some extent his moderation is grounded in the Keynesian lessons he learned while earning a doctorate in economics from Duke University in the 1960's. But it is also seems to be a product of his sober personality and what his friends characterize as a distaste for impulsiveness.
Mr. Lagos was born to a middle-class family on March 2, 1938. His father, a small landowner, died when Mr. Lagos was 8. His mother, Emma Escobar y Froilan Lagos, a retired teacher, cast a vote for her son on Sunday -- at the age of 103.
Before going to the United States for graduate studies in economics, he earned a law degree at the University of Chile. He is a weekend gardener, an avid reader of histories and loves Brahms and Mozart. Unlike so many Chileans, he does not smoke. But he does like to take a siesta whenever possible.
Since 1971 he has been married to Luisa Duran de la Fuente, with whom he has a daughter. He also has two children from an earlier marriage.
He plays tennis and does light rock-climbing for exercise, but his ample waistline suggests that he is not a fanatic of either. And when he talks of politics, compromise and consensus appear to be uppermost on his mind.
"What is our goal now?" Mr. Lagos asked rhetorically during an interview on the campaign trail last year. "Without affecting investment, savings and growth, we need to produce a society a little more just with less of a gap in the inequality of opportunity."
During the Allende years, Mr. Lagos served as secretary general of the University of Chile and was Dr. Allende's choice to be ambassador to Moscow at the time of the coup. But after the coup, when many top Chilean Socialist leaders went to East Germany, he chose exile in the United States and was a visiting professor at the University of North Carolina in 1973-75.
He said he enjoyed his time in Chapel Hill, although he added with a smile, "I had real problems when North Carolina played basketball with Duke."
From 1976 to 1984 he worked as an economist for United Nations agencies, but then devoted himself increasingly to opposition politics.
Mr. Lagos spent only 20 days in General Pinochet's jails, in 1986 during a crackdown after an assassination attempt, but he played a key role in the 1988 plebiscite campaign that led to General Pinochet's defeat.
In a television interview that year, Mr. Lagos had the gumption to point his finger at the camera -- as if to point directly at the dictator -- and told him that the country had had enough of his repression, torture and executions.
It was that brave moment of defiance that made him the leader of Chile's Socialists and a future presidential candidate.
In 1990 a Christian Democratic-Socialist coalition took power, and during the next eight years Mr. Lagos served as education minister and then public works minister, positions in which he sought not only to help the disadvantaged but also to improve his relations with the business community and the military.
He expanded the influence of military academies by permitting them to grant master's degrees to civilians. And he made sure to complete General Pinochet's pet public works project, a highway connecting Tierra del Fuego and the lake-dotted Patagonia region.
During the recent presidential campaign, he and Mr. Lavin studiously avoided mentions of either Dr. Allende or General Pinochet as both focused on the future.
Mr. Lagos promised to create 300,000 jobs and bring modern health care to the poor, but he also made a concerted effort to calm the concerns of domestic and foreign investors. He sought out George Soros and David Rockefeller to appear with him in photographs published in the Chilean press and told a conference of local business leaders that he would work hard to keep the budget deficit in check and interest rates and inflation low.
"I know the limits of the possible," he told business executives last November, "and I know my responsibility to be a leader who orients the public responsibly."
The speech was meant to reassure the private sector that he would continue the current administration's economic policies and not encourage workers to strike, as President Allende's government had done.
Mr. Lagos's moderation through the campaign frustrated leftists in his own party and particularly angered Communist Party leaders who were allies of the Socialists during the Allende era.
But his moderation was mirrored by Mr. Lavin, who called for cuts in military spending and said he would not stand in the way of a future trial of General Pinochet if he was not extradited to stand trial in Spain.
"Lagos is close to the third way of Blair and Clinton," said Ricardo Israel, a political scientist at the University of Chile. "As president, you'll hear a lot about an ethical foreign policy, but you'll probably see more privatizations than you did under the two Christian Democratic presidents. And he'll be very careful with the army."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Ricardo Lagos of Chile shared a moment yesterday with children in a drug rehabilitation center in Santiago. Mr. Lagos, an economist and lawyer, is a Socialist and a longtime political moderate. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSE ARREST (75%); COUPS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ARRESTS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); FAMILY (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; LAGOS, RICARDO HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



449 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil's Economy Is Better, But Is the Recovery Lasting?

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Jan. 17

 BODY:
A year after Brazil's currency crisis took damaging hold, Belarmino Iglesias is toasting his good fortune. Business has rarely been better at his steakhouse, Baby Beef Rubaiyat, an old establishment here where businessmen put together deals over Argentine sirloin and French wine.
"I guess the business lunch proved immune to the crisis," Mr. Iglesias said in a room of crowded tables peppered with conversations in half a dozen languages. "Twelve months ago I was fearful, but hyperinflation didn't materialize and our clientele even expanded." 
 It is not just good food that weathered the 32 percent devaluation of the Brazilian real. Buoyed by a record $28 billion in foreign direct investment in 1999 and a 12-month stock market rally of 164 percent in local-currency terms, the Brazilian economy is a different beast than it was a year ago.
Growth this year is forecast at 3.5 percent, compared with a rise of perhaps 1 percent in 1999. A handful of other indicators, like unemployment, inflation and car production, also show signs of improvement.
And with concern over the Year 2000 computer problem washed away, there has even been some calm in the currency markets, with the Brazilian real strengthening 10 percent in recent weeks to settle in the region of 1.79 to the dollar.
Yet while almost no one expected Brazil to bounce back so quickly, people here are beginning to look ahead in an effort to gauge whether there is still the risk of a return to the uncertainty, even panic, that gripped the country a year ago.
Judging from some of the challenges ahead, the kind of lasting stability enjoyed by rich industrial nations still seems somewhat elusive.
"We Brazilians tend to have a short memory, but it's not that short," said Oswaldo Castro Jr., sales director of Expresso Aracatuba, one of the nation's largest trucking companies. "You'd think it's about time we reach the point where we can stop managing our business from one crisis to the next."
One big doubt about a departure from crisis mode has to do with the country's banks and their willingness to increase borrowing in a credit-starved economy. After the real was floated a year ago and doomsday predictions about a debt default were common, Brazilian banks held firm and continued to buy government bonds. And although the prescience of this strategy proved a windfall for these institutions, with high-yield debt portfolios fattening profits, banks made few moves to increase lending to individuals or companies. Even with interest rates more than halved by the end of 1999, to 19 percent, loans remained rare.
"For the recovery to be consolidated, interest rates must come down and consumer credit expanded," said Walter Molano, Latin America economist at BCP Securities in Greenwich, Conn.
Yet because of possible interest rate increases in the United States and the European Union, there may not be much room for the central bank to lower rates. Economists see key rates declining to perhaps 14 or 15 percent, but not much further.
Still, that might be enough to kick-start Brazilian companies into again seeking domestic financing, said Carlos Novis Guimaraes, head of Latin American investment banking at Lehman Brothers. "Once you start lowering rates, that creates advantages for local companies to finance acquisitions and other expansion," Mr. Guimaraes said. "This means there will be more advisory work. The outlook for investment banks has certainly improved."
As in the past, interest rate cuts will largely hinge on government efforts to contain spending. Improvements in corporate-tax collection and belt-tightening steps have started to pay off, with Brazil surpassing most budget goals agreed to with the International Monetary Fund.
According to Raul Velloso, a Brasilia-based specialist on public spending, the government's surplus before paying interest on its debt rose to an estimated $13.2 billion in 1999, compared with $2.74 billion a year earlier. He said this measure of surplus could further improve this year.
After interest payments are taken into account, however, the numbers look a lot worse, with a deficit in 1999 of roughly 11 percent of the gross domestic product, one of the highest in the world for an economy the size of Brazil's. The government could succeed in lowering that to the equivalent of 3.8 percent of output, according to Salomon Smith Barney.
While efforts to reduce spending continue, it is widely believed that medium- or even long-term economic stability is unreachable without increasing exports.
Partly because its domestic market is so large, Brazil still has one of the world's lowest ratios of exports to its output -- at 7 percent, according to Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard University. While this puts Brazil ahead of the weakest economies, it is far behind the largest emerging-market economy -- China, with an export-to-G.D.P. ratio around 25 percent.
There are signs that exports are finally starting to surge a year after the devaluation made Brazilian products less expensive abroad. In December, a month in which imports traditionally generate trade deficits, Brazil had a trade surplus of $249 million. And during the first two weeks of January, exports rose an estimated 30 percent compared with the similar period a year earlier.
Part of the improvement has to do with more vibrant markets for Brazilian goods in Asia and Europe. But while a healthier global economy holds promise for Brazilian companies, perhaps the greatest risk for recovery also comes from abroad. "We are in a rising global interest rate environment," said Geoffrey Dennis, Latin America equity strategist for Salomon Smith Barney. "How Brazil will weather an increase in American or European rates, no one knows."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Year After Devaluation"
In the year since Brazil floated the value of the real, the currency has largely stabilized and the stock market has soared.
 
THE VALUE OF THE REAL HAS STABILIZED . . .
Graph tracks the Brazilian real per U.S. dollar. Scale is inverted to show falling value, since December 1998.
 
. . . AND THE BRAZILIAN STOCK MARKET HAS SOARED
Graph tracks the percent change in the Bovespa market index since Dec. 1, 1998.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AUTOMOBILES; PRODUCTION; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); BONDS (88%); INTEREST RATES (83%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); NEW ISSUES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); TRENDS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (52%); TRUCKING (50%); 

PERSON: ;ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



450 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Agua Prieta Journal;
Boom Turns Border to Speed Bump

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: AGUA PRIETA, Mexico, Jan. 14

 BODY:
United States Border Patrol agents have been detaining so many Mexicans crossing the border illegally that when they flushed the Guzman family and 20 other shivering migrants out of the Arizona mesquite near here last week, they had to fill out the forms sending them home by flashlight.
They did the paperwork under the desert sky because the 1,410 undocumented immigrants rounded up that same night would not have come close to fitting inside the nearest Border Patrol station at Douglas, Ariz. 
 Since 1998, Agua Prieta, a gritty desert town that shares the border with Douglas, has been the busiest border crossing area along the 2,000-mile dividing line between Mexico and the United States. And January is busy season here as thousands of undocumented Mexicans have attempted to cross into Arizona since the New Year's holidays, provoking detentions on an industrial scale.
Along the 26 miles of frontier stretching east and west from here, the Border Patrol has already detained 14,664 undocumented migrants this month, nearly twice as many as were detained during the same period last year.
The January rush for the border is part of a yearly cycle; thousands of Mexicans who work illegally in the United States travel south to spend the Christmas holidays in hometowns across Mexico, and employers all across America are now waiting for them to return. But this year is busier than usual because of the booming economy up north.
Enrique Guzman, 22, earned $50 a week running errands for a congressman in Mexico City. But since a relative in Los Angeles persuaded him that he could earn eight times that as a construction laborer in the American economy, Mr. Guzman has been determined to reach California. Not even his family's humiliating detention on Jan. 12 changed his mind.
"We'll try again," Mr. Guzman said after agents released him, his teenage wife and their baby boy back into Agua Prieta.
Thousands of migrants with the same idea loiter in Agua Prieta's streets by day, awaiting their chance to make an illegal crossing. Across a new steel-barred fence in Douglas, a once sleepy town of 15,000 residents, reinforcements have swelled Border Patrol ranks to nearly 500 agents from 2 in the early 1980's; it now rivals the school district as the largest employer. Hundreds of Border Patrol vehicles prowl the streets, helicopters clatter overhead and stadium floodlights illuminate the border fence like the walls of a prison.
"Douglas has become a garrison for a federal force fighting an immigration war," said Ray Borane, the town's mayor, who wrote letters to President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore recently asking them to rethink border policy.
Douglas-Agua Prieta became Ground Zero in the conflict over worker migration because the Clinton administration has reinforced the Border Patrol to more than 9,000 agents from fewer than 4,000 in the mid-1990's and deployed many of them to detain illegal crossers in the border area's largest cities.
Demographers say the crackdown has not slowed the river of humanity crossing the southwest border but has rechanneled it. In 1993, 9 of 10 undocumented migrants crossed at border cities. Today, 2 of 3 cross in remote areas like Agua Prieta.
Robert L. Bach, associate commissioner at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said the toughened policies have reduced the chaos in border cities like San Diego, where crowds of migrants used to run through residents' yards and across freeways.
"We want a labor market that plays by the rules," he said. "Nobody says we've controlled the whole border. But we're accomplishing that piece by piece."
Rechanneling the flow into remote areas has made it more dangerous, however.
Migrants now die in greater numbers than previously, of thirst, hunger, sunstroke or cold. Others drown in irrigation canals. According to Mexican government figures, 717 undocumented Mexicans have died trying to cross the border since 1995.
"I feel for these aliens," said Larry Vance, an employee of a Douglas utility company, recounting how several Mexicans have been run down by cars near his 20-acre property a mile north of the international line. Anger overwhelms his sympathies, however, because mobs of migrants cross his land each day, bending his fences and dumping diapers and empty water jugs.
"The Border Patrol is nothing more than a speed bump for these people," he said.
Pat Buchanan, who is advocating tougher border controls in his pursuit of the Reform Party's presidential nomination, is scheduled to meet with Mr. Vance when he visits Douglas on Wednesday. But illegal immigration is not the explosive issue it has been in past presidential campaigns, apparently because America's economic boom has created labor shortages.
Never has the United States spent so much to keep undocumented workers out, nor the economy needed them more.
"Mexican immigrants are filling niches that employers can't even try to fill with American workers," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California at San Diego. "So even though migrants must expose themselves to life-threatening hazards, they'll keep trying until they get across. Economically, that's still their most rational option."
In a Jan. 3 editorial, The Denver Post criticized a crackdown on migrants by the I.N.S. in Colorado, arguing that "undocumented foreigners are keeping our strong economy afloat." The paper urged policy makers to allow some Mexicans to work in the United States legally.
Similar proposals are gaining strength south of the border. Francisco Labastida, the presidential candidate of Mexico's governing party, says he will press for a new, expanded bracero program, which gave Mexicans legal, temporary jobs in the United States a half-century ago.
But for now, people here are learning to live with the arriving masses of undocumented workers. Businessmen have converted dozens of Agua Prieta clinics, auto shops and stores into makeshift hotels, charging $25 to $40 for a bed and hot shower.
"I can tell you the most lucrative illegal contraband here now is not drugs, but people," said Efrain Martinez, the Agua Prieta city manager.
Some migrants grow despondent. In October, a man who had been turned back five times at the border began hurling himself in front of traffic in Agua Prieta. After the police arrested him, he hung himself in his jail cell.
Yet every evening after sundown, thousands of Mexicans march east and west out of Agua Prieta in columns, some 100 or more people long, led by professional guides. Miles out in the Mexican desert, they head north over the international line, seeking to rendezvous with vans hired to ferry them to Phoenix or Tucson.
Waiting to intercept them one recent night was Fred Esquivel, a supervisory Border Patrol agent. Parking his truck along a railroad trestle, he scanned the horizon with an infrared camera that allowed him to peer through the Arizona darkness as though it were high noon. Within minutes, he identified six columns of migrants moving across his screen, their heads bobbing above shoulder-high sagebrush. His radio crackled with a dispatcher's chatter as dozens of agents swarmed along the borderline, detaining hundreds of Mexicans.
"You have to sympathize with these people," Mr. Esquivel said, small-talking through the night. "They're coming from nothing, and they've got nothing to lose. They'll try again and again to get across. I'd do the same thing if I were in their shoes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A surge of undocumented immigration has overwhelmed a 26-mile section of the border with Mexico. A Border Patrol agent watched over a group of men caught crossing in the desert near Douglas, Ariz., last week. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "STATUS REPORT: On the Verge"
So many Mexicans have illegally crossed the border this year that the Border Patrol station near Douglas, Ariz., has run out of room. The chart compares the number of illegal aliens held at the border in January 1999 to January 2000. (Source: U.S. Border Patrol)
 
Map showing the location of Agua Prieta: Border-crossing is big business in the Mexican city of Agua Prieta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BORDER PATROL (US) GROUND ZERO (50%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (97%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDER PATROL (US) US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (97%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; AGUA PRIETA (MEXICO); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES BORDER CONTROL (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); DESERTS (71%); MAYORS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM BILL CLINTON (65%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



451 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Financial Woes Cloud Pathmark's Future in Poor Areas

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
For the last decade, Pathmark has sought to expand its established presence in low-income neighborhoods, where other chains declined to venture. It has been a successful part of its business, despite perilous predictions.
But now the chain's future in poor urban areas has been cast in doubt by mounting debt, a failed merger attempt and other financial problems, according to market analysts and company officials. 
 As a result, they say, Pathmark's efforts to build additional supermarkets, including one in Harlem that is considered a centerpiece of the area's economic redevelopment, are in jeopardy.
"We would still like to work with the people of Harlem," Harvey Gutman, a senior vice president at the supermarket giant, based in New Jersey, said when asked about the prospects of building the Harlem market.
The worries about Pathmark's financial health come a month after a failed corporate marriage that promised to erase much of the company's nearly $2.5 billion debt and to guarantee its presence in low-income areas, where stores have generally been profitable for Pathmark.
The problems could force the company to retrench in many neighborhoods, both rich and poor. But the concern among advocates for the poor is that no other supermarket company will take the risk to invest in low-income neighborhoods.
"The market niche they carved was borrowed from 'Star Trek,' " Paul G. W. Fetscher, a market analyst who is the president of Great American Brokerage in Manhattan, said, referring to the show's theme of boldly going where no one had gone before.
"They did an excellent job of going into minority areas and developing excellent stores," he said.
Pathmark is sagging under the huge debt that it incurred when it was taken private in 1987 by an investment group headed by Merrill Lynch. Because heavy interest payments burned up much of its cash, the company was unable to expand quickly enough, fiscal analysts say.
So, for two years Pathmark has been searching for a suitor that could acquire the company and much of its accumulated debt. Last March, Pathmark thought it had found one: Royal Ahold, an aggressive Dutch food retailer, which offered to take on its debt and buy the company for $250 million.
Royal Ahold officials said publicly many times that they admired Pathmark's ability to do so well in poor communities and planned to continue those efforts. But nine months later, the deal fell apart, under objections from the Federal Trade Commission. Federal officials, while not specifically barring the merger, expressed strong reservations about allowing Royal Ahold, which already owned Edwards supermarkets, to have such a hold on the New York market.
Privately, Pathmark officials have said they fear that their financial troubles have placed them in a position with limited options: being acquired by another company, a drastic refinancing and reorganization, or bankruptcy. It is a position that is supported by market analysts, like Mr. Fetscher.
"They really only have three choices," Mr. Fetscher said, adding that the trade commission decision, ruling out competitors in the New York market, made it tough to find a company to acquire Pathmark.
The best case, those officials said, would be for another company to acquire Pathmark and take on its debt, but few larger food retailers seem to be in a position to make such a purchase.
This year alone, Pathmark is scheduled to make a $116 million debt payment, a position that places the company's plans for a supermarket at 145th Street and Bradhurst Avenue in jeopardy, company officials said.
A number of other companies are bidding for the 30,000-square-foot project, but, given its track record, Pathmark had been seen as the leading contender. The market is seen as important to the neighborhood, because aside from Pathmark's East Harlem store, the only other large market is a Fairway on 133rd Street, which caters as much to Upper West Siders as to Harlem residents.
Pamela J. Fairclough, the director of the supermarket project for the Community Food Resources Center, an advocacy group for the poor, said, "We've worked consistently to get larger supermarkets into low-income neighborhoods, and it is a loss for New York City if Pathmark stays in a holding pattern or has to retrench."
Advocates are equally concerned that Pathmark stores may decline in quality or that they could be taken over by a company with a different set of corporate values. "Pathmark is really the only supermarket chain that has made a commitment and taken the risk to develop in low-income neighborhoods," Ms. Fairclough said.
Pathmark's future has also become a concern for C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president.
As a city councilwoman, Ms. Fields helped the company overcome objections from local retailers who did not want the 53,000-square-foot supermarket built five years ago on 125th Street in East Harlem, and she considers the store one of her more important accomplishments.
Lisa V. Daglian, a spokeswoman for Ms. Fields, said the borough president's office was still working with Pathmark and was optimistic about the proposals for the 145th Street store.
"It took a lot of work to get Pathmark to the 125th Street location, and they have shown a lot of tenacity in the face of a lot of adversity there," Ms. Daglian said. "We would hope ultimately that if they are taken over by another corporation, the values and the interest that Pathmark has shown in investing in lower-income communities are still reflected." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (86%); AH (BIT) (86%); AH (AMS) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (86%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (86%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (86%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); MERGERS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



452 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Blends His Campaign With Service For Dr. King

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 17

 BODY:
On the dais of Ebenezer Baptist Church, what he called "the high ground" of the civil rights movement, Vice President Al Gore clasped hands today with Coretta Scott King and swayed as the choir hummed "We Shall Overcome."
It was an election-year bonus, this observance of the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., an "official" tableau provided to Mr. Gore by dint of his position as vice president and one he used to advance his platform in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
 He extolled the record of the Clinton administration in furthering the prosperity of African-Americans and their appointments to federal positions. He called for affirmative action, recalled his tie-breaking vote in the Senate in favor of gun control and lamented the Republicans' failure to confirm Bill Lann Lee as chief of the Justice Department's civil rights division.
Repeating Dr. King's summons to build "a greater economic base," Mr. Gore echoed phrases from his stump speech: "We must keep our prosperity going, not for the primary benefit of those who already have the most, but to profit at last those who as yet have so little. Like Dr. King, we do not seek to comfort the comfortable; we do not seek to give away our hard-won surplus to the powerful few, but to use it to establish justice and opportunity for the many."
Mr. Gore also announced that private donors had contributed half a million dollars to help restore the Ebenezer church, where Dr. King preached, and that the Clinton administration would seek $1.5 million in next year's budget to preserve and maintain Dr. King's birthplace.
Mrs. King, whose husband would have been 71 on Saturday, hailed Mr. Gore as "a compelling advocate for racial justice." She praised him for denouncing the Confederate battle flag, which flies over the capitol of neighboring South Carolina, and recalled that his father, the late Al Gore Sr., a longtime senator from Tennessee, had opposed the poll tax and the Vietnam War.
The three-hour service featured two of Dr. King's children, Dexter Scott King and the Rev. Dr. Bernice Albertine King, who offered a fierce and passionate tribute to her mother. ("Thank you, Bernice," Mrs. King said upon taking the pulpit, "but I can take care of myself.")
The audience of a few hundred people included Alexis M. Herman, the labor secretary, as well as John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has endorsed Mr. Gore, and James P. Hoffa, president of the Teamsters union, which has made no endorsement. Both served as grand marshals in a King parade here.
Gore advisers have said the votes of African-Americans are crucial to his campaign, especially in the South, and Mr. Gore has made frequent appearances here to rally blacks on his behalf.
Mr. Gore has referred to the assassination of Dr. King as an important event in his young adulthood. He was driving from Boston to Washington on spring break in 1968 when he heard the news on the car radio. He said he drove to downtown Washington to pick up his mother at a store, where protesters were smashing the windows. He described the assassination as one of the factors contributing to his disillusionment with politics. He has said he became more optimistic about the system after he worked as a reporter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s son Dexter Scott King, his widow, Coretta Scott King, and his sister, Christine King Farris, right, yesterday at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EBENEZER BAPTIST CHURCH (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GUN CONTROL (73%); BUDGETS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); KING, CORETTA SCOTT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (93%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



453 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DIE-HARD;
Forbes, 'Your Next Commander in Chief,' Presses On

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Even though Steve Forbes has been dismissed as a realistic presidential contender by most political pundits, the Forbes campaign continues its seemingly never-ending swing through Iowa, filled with the enthusiastic belief that one day, if the breaks just fall its way, Mr. Forbes might actually occupy the Oval Office.
Mr. Forbes himself peppers his stump speech, which has not varied in months, with phrases like "as your commander in chief" and "when I am president," and his hard-core followers reward him with standing ovations and murmured amens. 
 From now until the Jan. 24 caucuses, Mr. Forbes is leading a highly visible and heavily orchestrated bus tour of Iowa, drumming up support in the one state where he has a shot at a fairly respectable showing. That, of course, is because Senator John McCain of Arizona has decided not to compete here, making Mr. Forbes a virtual shoe-in for the No. 2 spot behind the Republican front-runner, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
Mr. Forbes needs a strong showing in Iowa to propel him into New Hampshire. And to that end, his legendary organizational prowess and lavish spending are on display as his two-bus cavalcade, blaring Willie Nelson tunes, pulls into small towns. Mr. Forbes, a gawky but effective speaker, and his entourage put on a spectacle filled with power-point presentations, a plea for followers to create a "family and friends" network of additional supporters and plenty of free food and gifts.
No one goes away empty-handed or unfed. Gifts include a copy of Mr. Forbes's book, a 15-minute biographical video, a bright orange long-sleeved T-shirt with the campaign logo to wear on caucus night, a blue computer mouse pad emblazoned with his name, campaign buttons, campaign literature and a list of caucus sites in every Iowa neighborhood. And wherever Mr. Forbes goes, the crowd is typically already seated at tables where chili and potato soup, turkey sandwiches and vegetable soup, individual crocks of cheese soup or, in one case, a pork dinner, have been served.
The campaign is so organized that at each stop two young men rush out of the bus before Mr. Forbes, carrying American and Iowa flags to set up on the podium, where a huge Forbes sign already hangs. Those who attend have either been called directly by the Forbes campaign or drawn by an advertisement in the local newspaper or on local radio. When they sit down, a packet of Forbes information identifying their caucus site is already at their seat.
Crowds of 100 to 300 greeted Mr. Forbes at each stop on a recent two-day Iowa swing, many saying they were little concerned that his chances of winning were slim.
"Nothing is a sure thing in Iowa to my way of thinking," said Don Hahn, a retired farmer in Keota.
Denise Stockland, an assistant manager of a grocery store in Washington, Iowa, said: "I like what he says about the family and the flat tax, and I don't care what anyone else thinks. You are supposed to vote for who you think is the best, no matter what."
Lorna Shepherd, an Ainsworth farmer, added: "I don't vote to be part of a bandwagon; I got to like what I hear. That's why we have the caucuses."
What is particularly surprising about Mr. Forbes is how little his basic stump speech has changed in months of campaigning and how programmed his presentations are. Even his jokes do not vary. His reference to "the Infernal, oops, I mean Internal Revenue Service" is a consistent laugh-getter.
This consistency and these traditional themes are what his followers have come to hear: a presentation against abortion, in favor of a flat income tax and in favor of more choices in education, health care and Social Security investments. He continues to play the role of Washington outsider -- "Washington special interests have no hooks in me" -- and he puts down the tax plans of Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain, whom he refers to as the "timid twins on taxes."
For his campaigns, Mr. Forbes has spent $62 million from his own fortune of over $400 million: $25 million in 1999 and $37 million in his 1996 bid. That money has poured into the setting up of a powerful organization for a caucus competition where a strong organization often matters more than a winning message.
Mr. Forbes has 4,000 caucus captains in the state's 99 precincts and has identified 88,000 "Forbes-friendly" households. Those captains, along with everyone else who attends Mr. Forbes's appearances, are being asked to bring five people each on caucus night and are given cards to identify them to the Forbes campaign. Around 100,000 of the state's 500,000 Republicans typically attend the caucuses.
The goal is for Mr. Forbes to do better than he did in the Iowa straw poll last August, when he received 20 percent of the vote to Mr. Bush's 31 percent. (The rest was scattered over 10 other candidates, with Elizabeth Dole, who has since dropped out, finishing third, with 14 percent.)
The core of Mr. Forbes's support is made up of social and economic conservatives: the Christian right of the party and those who want less government and lower taxes. But to succeed, Mr. Forbes has to go beyond that and gain a share of Iowa's undecided vote.
"There are lots of undecided," said Steve Grubbs, former chairman of the Iowa Republican Party and head of the Forbes Iowa campaign, "and we've got to have those undecided break our way on caucus night."
The view from the Forbes campaign is that Mr. Forbes needs a strong showing in Iowa to give him momentum for the New Hampshire primary, just eight days later. "We don't have to win," Mr. Grubbs said. "Our job in Iowa is to get Steve Forbes to New Hampshire."
While Mr. Grubbs declined to say how much of the Iowa vote Mr. Forbes needed, he said, "South of 20 percent, he goes wounded. We need to be north of 20 percent, there's no doubt about that."
Most local polls show Mr. Forbes taking around 20 percent of the Iowa vote.
Still, for all the campaign ebullience, there is a defensiveness over Mr. Forbes's low standing in polls and his dismissal by the political establishment. A piece of campaign literature distributed at Forbes events says: "With George W. Bush weakening in the early states -- and John McCain unprepared to run a full 50-state presidential campaign -- Steve Forbes is now in a position to surprise everyone and win the G.O.P. nomination. That's what the media isn't telling you."
For all the Forbes talk about bold ideas, it often seems that he is not so much running for president as he is running to stop Mr. Bush, whom Mr. Forbes portrays as a latecomer to his anti-tax crusade, though in a weaker form.
"Now that Bush is the front-runner, he's trying to portray himself as a tax cutter," Mr. Forbes said, seated in his campaign bus one dark Iowa night. "I'm delighted that others are beginning to evolve to where I am. Bush will have a fight on his hands and it will be a long one. He tried to shut us down at the straw poll and it did not work. I'm in for the duration. The Republican Party wants to anoint Bush, but I don't think they will be able to pull off their coronation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Forbes is campaigning tirelessly and efficiently in Iowa in hopes of a strong finish in the caucuses there. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (61%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR); WAYNE, LESLIE JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



454 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE COMEDIAN;
And Now (Drumroll), Heeeere's Johnny (McCain)

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: HOPKINTON, N.H., Jan. 14

 BODY:
Heard the one about the trees chasing the dogs? If you were at Senator John McCain's recent town hall meeting in Merrimack, N.H., you would have. Twice.
It's a little weather joke Mr. McCain likes to tell. So little water in Arizona, the trees chase the dogs. Ba-dum-bum.
Pretty amusing the first time, and it typically gets a chuckle when the Republican presidential candidate uses it in his opening remarks on the campaign trail. But even his staff was silent when Mr. McCain recently offered the line a second time to the same audience. Oops. 
 "I noticed that as soon as I said it," a sheepish Mr. McCain said later. "They didn't laugh."
Most candidates have a stump speech. Mr. McCain, who favors endless question-and-answer sessions with the public and the press, has more of a stand-up routine. His mix of dry sarcasm, terrific timing and a sweet rasp of a voice is reminiscent of Johnny Carson (they also have similar hair). He can be funny off the cuff, but the cuffs are a little worn during long days riding around New Hampshire in a campaign bus. So he relies on some old standbys:
On who will play him in the movie version of his book, "Faith of My Fathers," a memoir of three generations of McCain military men: "I want Tom Cruise; my kids want Danny DeVito."
On his book: "I'm not here to hype my book. I would never do that. $24.95, Random House. It's been four months on the best-seller list, available on Amazon.com. But I wouldn't hype it."
On politicians taking credit for things they did not do: "The vice president invented the Internet. I invented television."
On young voters' cynicism about government: "There's a study out that says more young people believe Elvis is alive than believe they'll ever get a Social Security check."
On early polls in New Hampshire: "We were at 3 percent. The margin of error was 5 percent."
And then there's the story of Mr. Tillotson. That would be 101-year-old Neil Tillotson of Dixville Notch, N.H., who came up with the idea of having his northern hamlet be the first to count its ballots in this "first in the nation" primary, making the burg a must-stop on every presidential candidate's tour.
Seems Mr. McCain, in his self-described desperation for votes -- including all 29 in Dixville Notch -- has visited with Mr. Tillotson not once but twice this campaign season. Asked who his favorite Republican was, out of all the candidates he had met, the old man replied, "Theodore Roosevelt." Ba-dum-bum.
"I think humor is really important," Mr. McCain said. "I've thought it was important all my life. I think it's important in these kind of, what sometimes get to be high-pressure situations."
Like when he was a prisoner of war in North Vietnam, tapping out jokes about Hanoi Hannah, a piece of radio propaganda, in code through the cell walls. And now in the heat of the presidential race, where he tells audiences -- over and over and over again -- that his only problem with an advertisement that shows Bill Clinton's face morphing into his is "that it's the ugliest picture of me I've ever seen."
There are self-deprecating lines about how, with white hair at 63, people think he is his school-age children's grandfather. He makes jabs at the press ("they go from liberal to Communist") and his staff ("most of them are on work-release programs"), and he offers a riff on Harry S. Truman's quest for a one-armed economist "because economists always say, 'On the one hand, on the other hand.' "
His audience eats this stuff up.
"Some of them just talk serious and serious, but he's with the people," said Caroline Jowders, 78, who has heard the routine at four campaign events. "He always has a sense of humor."
In Keene, N.H., the other night, the crowd was cracking up as if it were a comedy club.
"He was very entertaining," Barbara Hecker said afterward. "There aren't too many politicians that I think are funny."
Mr. McCain also does a mean Bob Dole impression (though he refused to offer a rendition of the Viagra commercial), and freely admits that most of his humor is borrowed. ("The trees chase the dogs" is a Barry Goldwater original, and many others belonged to Morris K. Udall, the late Democratic congressman from Arizona.)
Which brings us to one of the candidate's favorite closing lines. Something about how Mr. Goldwater, Mr. Udall, and Bruce Babbitt, all Arizonans, all trod this path before him.
"Arizona may be the only state where mothers don't tell their children they can grow up to be president," Mr. McCain cracks. "I want to change that."
Ba-dum-bum.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain laces his campaigning with a sort of stand-up comedy routine. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BESTSELLERS (65%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); WILGOREN, JODI JOHN MCCAIN (94%); TOM CRUISE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



455 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Texans Split Over Plan To Reopen a Pipeline

BYLINE: By ROSS MILLOY 

DATELINE: SUNSET VALLEY, Tex., Jan. 15

 BODY:
Sandwiched between the sparsely populated Texas Hill Country and the sprawling city of Austin, this community of 327 people sits on the line between new and old versions of the Lone Star State. To the east rise the office buildings of an urban high-tech center; to the west, rolling ranch land stocked with cattle, and beyond, the flat prairies of Big Oil.
And just beneath the limestone soil of Sunset Valley's quiet suburban neighborhoods runs another line, a 50-year-old, 700-mile-long oil pipeline that some say represents a grave environmental threat and others contend holds environmental and economic benefits just waiting to be tapped. 
 The differing views say much about how Texas has changed since the pipeline was built, and about the oil industry's declining influence.
For more than five years, the Longhorn Partners Pipeline Company has been trying to convert the pipeline from its former function, pumping crude oil from Houston to West Texas refineries, to a new use, carrying cleaner-burning gasoline to El Paso, a city under federal air quality sanctions. From there, the gasoline would go to New Mexico and Arizona. The result, Longhorn says, would be cleaner air for El Paso and reduced fuel costs for Southwest motorists who have historically paid some of the nation's highest gasoline prices.
The pipeline has been dormant since it was bought for $325 million in 1995 by Longhorn, a partnership of Exxon, Amoco and other oil interests.
But critics say moving gasoline rather than less-volatile crude oil through the aged line poses risks of explosions and fires for thousands of people living near it. They also say spills from the pipeline could threaten lakes and the ecologically fragile Edwards Aquifer, an underground network of spring-fed catacombs that provides water to 45,000 Central Texas residents.
"This is all about pitting one area against another," said Jeff Jacks, an Austin neighborhood leader. "El Paso needs cleaner gas for their air quality problems, and so we end up shipping gasoline across our aquifer. None of it makes much sense."
J. J. Pickle, a Democrat who represented this area in Congress for 31 years, until 1994, says he cannot remember a similar controversy.
"Fifty years ago things like this pipeline were just automatic," he said. "People didn't think there was another side to putting in pipelines."
Longhorn has agreed to a long list of protective measures as a condition for reopening the line. But officials here have vowed to fight the move, insisting that the line be rerouted around the Edwards Aquifer.
"My message is very direct: Put this pipeline somewhere else," Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat who replaced Mr. Pickle, said this week at a meeting that drew 2,000 people.
Oil and Texas have been synonymous since the Old Spindletop field was discovered in East Texas in 1901. The state has 250,000 miles of underground oil and gas pipelines, more than any other, said Gene Acuna of the Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the network.
Local sensitivities to pipeline safety were heightened by an explosion on a pipeline in Bellingham, Wash., that killed three people in June 1999. And on Thursday a $35 million settlement was announced between the federal government and Koch Industries of Wichita, Kan., arising from oil spills in rural areas. Texas will receive $17.5 million of that settlement.
Between 1993 and 1996 there were 614 incidents involving pipeline safety along the 150,000 miles of intrastate lines regulated by his office, Mr. Acuna said, and three reported deaths.
With high technology now driving the Texas economy, oil is no longer king. In the 1950's, when the Longhorn pipeline was built, oil represented over a quarter of Texas' total economic output and employed 233,000 Texans, more than 10 percent of the state's work force.
Oil and gas have slipped to 11.9 percent of the state's gross product and 3 percent of the work force. By comparison, the high-tech industry employs over 100,000 in Austin alone and more than 500,000 statewide. The technology industry has surpassed oil's role in the economy and now totals 12.5 percent of the state's gross product, the State Comptroller's Office said.
"Our real economic resource is not minerals, but our quality of life," Mr. Doggett said. "Our quality of life is what attracts the talented people. And you cannot get those people if you are next to a smelly oil well or a potentially exploding or leaking pipeline."
Don Martin, a spokesman for Longhorn, counters that it would take 12,000 tanker trucks to move the volume of gasoline that would be transported by the pipeline.
"Now you tell me which represents the greater environmental and quality-of-life risk: an underground pipeline that no one ever sees or 12,000 tanker trucks in the street?" Mr. Martin asked.
The dispute illustrates the declining influence of the oil industry, Mr. Pickle said. But just as important, he said, is the growth in agencies and laws to protect the environment. "It's not just that the oil industry has gotten weaker, but that the citizens and the environmental groups have gotten so much stronger," he said.
Another way Texas has changed, Mr. Martin said, is that El Paso and West Texas have become more politically sophisticated. "They are growing and want to be part of the state's economy," he said. "They are the ones who are really pushing for this pipeline."
Mr. Pickle, 86, says the battle over the pipeline reminds him of struggles over prisons in his legislative career: "Everybody wants people to go to jail, but nobody wants a prison built near them."
Opponents of the pipeline are pressing for an environmental impact statement, which could delay the project for several years.
"You are going to see from this an uprising in other parts of the state." Mr. Pickle said. "Houston and El Paso are going to say: 'We need that gas. It gives us jobs, it helps our air, it helps our cities grow.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of the proposed pipeline: A company seeks to pump gasoline from Houston to Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486910 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONGHORN PARTNERS PIPELINE CO MAGELLAN MIDSTREAM PARTNERS LP (56%); HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONGHORN PARTNERS PIPELINE CO HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUNSET VALLEY (TEX); EL PASO (TEX); HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); EL PASO, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (67%); 

PERSON: MOLLOY, ROSS LLOYD DOGGETT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



456 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: 46,000 March on South Carolina Capitol to Bring Down Confederate Flag

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., Jan. 17

 BODY:
With a strength and exuberance seldom seen since civil rights days, a crowd of 46,000 marchers pointed to the Confederate battle flag snapping over the state Capitol today and demanded that it be removed from public life.
"The flag is coming down today," they sang in an updated lyric to the tune of "We Shall Overcome," on a sunny anniversary of the birth of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Young people who had never attended a protest strode next to an older generation that knew the drill, waving signs, stomping feet and mock-grimacing at the object of their derision on the dome. Many seemed to act as though their sheer numbers and deafening decibel power alone might shake up the state legislators who have kept it flying. 
 "Not everyone in South Carolina is still living in the 18th century," said James Gallman, president of the South Carolina N.A.A.C.P., standing on the Capitol steps and speaking to a roaring crowd that spread out for blocks around him. "We are going to send a clear message to those who have the authority to deal with the placement of the Confederate battle flag. Let it be clearly understood that we live in the sovereign state of South Carolina, and not in the Confederate States of America."
The march was the largest in the city's history, said Mayor Bob Coble, and perhaps the greatest civil rights rally since the 1960's, said Kweisi Mfume, the national president of the N.A.A.C.P. who was the day's main speaker. Buses rolled all night to bring in marchers from Baltimore and Birmingham, many of whom spent the night with friends to avoid spending a dollar in the state, hewing to the N.A.A.C.P.'s economic boycott of South Carolina that began with the new year.
It had been only a week since 6,000 white supporters of the flag gathered on the same steps to praise it as a symbol of Southern heritage, a reminder of their ancestors' courage in battling to secede from the union. Organizers of today's march desperately wanted to best that number and had predicted they might be able to attract 20,000, thanks to concerted organization by the N.A.A.C.P. and pleas from Southern pulpits.
But no one had truly expected the wave after wave of marchers who came down Washington and Main Streets today to the Capitol. And in particular, no one had predicted that so many white marchers would show up. It appeared that 5 percent to 10 percent of the crowd was white, including large delegations of white elected officials, business leaders and clergy members. That delighted organizers who were working to demonstrate widespread opposition to the flag.
"The Civil War's been over a long time," said the Rev. John Hurst Adams, bishop of the regional district of the African Methodist Episcopal church. "We know you got an inferiority complex because you lost, but you compensated for that a long time ago."
South Carolina is the only state of the Confederacy that still flies the battle flag, although other states incorporate Confederate elements into their flags. The Georgia chapter of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/ PUSH coalition is planning to announce a boycott of Georgia because its state flag includes the battle flag.
South Carolina is also the only state in the country without an official celebration of Dr. King's birthday, which was much noted by many speakers and marchers. State employees here have the option of taking off either today or one of three Confederate holidays scattered around the year, but all state offices were open for business today.
Although bills to remove the flag and add the King holiday have passed the State Senate in the past, they have always died in the House, where districts are smaller and constituencies are often exclusively white or black. Many participants today asserted that the large majority of state residents, white and black, want an end to the divisive issue of the flag.
"The vast majority of South Carolina says it's time to bring down the flag now," said Mayor Joe Riley of Charleston, who is white. "We cannot ignore that the Confederate battle flag was taken by hate groups. It was taken by the Klan. It became a banner of the segregation-forever movement, and we cannot be insensitive in South Carolina to the feelings of our African-American brothers and sisters when they see that flag."
Speaker after speaker derided the six-foot banner flying far above their heads as a symbol of slavery and hatred. Mr. Mfume said it was a reminder that intolerance was still manifest in the form of militia groups and anti-immigrant sentiment. Many in the crowd carried signs that read "Your Heritage Is My Slavery," posters of Dr. King, thousands of American and South Carolina flags, while one marcher carried her membership certificate in the United Daughters of the Confederacy.
There were few spectators along the six-block route of the march, because most got caught up in the spirit of the day and joined in. Police officials said the day was almost entirely peaceful, reporting only one arrest for disorderly conduct. The Department of Public Safety estimated the crowd at 46,000, but organizers said it could have been over 50,000.
Gov. Jim Hodges, a Democrat, did not attend the rally to preserve what he said was the neutrality he needed to negotiate a compromise to move the flag. He said later that the size of the crowd "creates a sense of urgency to get this issue resolved," but some black House members on the Capitol steps said they would be surprised if their white colleagues would actually be impressed by the rally.
"These aren't their constituents," said Representative Walter P. Lloyd, a Democrat from Walterboro.
But political considerations were beside the point for most of the marchers, who found if nothing else in the flag an organizing principle to demonstrate their energy and commitment.
"My little girl has to see that flag every day on her way home from school," said Norma Baggison, a state employee who was marching next to her daughter Sheila, who is 8. "But now she can see that her people is stronger than any flag."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Attending yesterday's rally, Jayson Conyers, 3, of Columbia, S.C., grabbed onto a sign that was as big as he. (Jason Clark/The State); About 46,000 people marched in downtown Columbia, S.C., yesterday, protesting the flying of the Confederate battle flag atop the Statehouse. (Erik Campos/The State)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (53%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; COLUMBIA (SC); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (53%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; BLACKS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SLAVERY CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HISTORY (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); BOYCOTTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); RIOTS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



457 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Eliminate Wrinkles, and Insurers

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
In the waiting room of Dr. Mark D. Fromer's office in Trump Tower -- not so long ago filled with elderly patients seeking treatment for cataract disease -- young professionals with expensive haircuts whisper into cell phones as they wait for their 15-minute laser eye surgery appointments.
Patients at the SoHo Integrative Health Center in Manhattan can see Dr. Laurie Polis, the center's dermatologist, for a routine skin cancer check, then get the wrinkles in their forehead zapped. Dr. Irwin Smigel, a prominent Manhattan dentist, passes people needing routine fillings on to his associates; he is far too busy applying the latest tooth-whitening concoction on his patients. 
 Until recently, doctors who specialized in so-called lifestyle medicine -- elective and largely cosmetic procedures -- were limited to rarefied corners of the medical profession. But facing declining revenues because of reimbursement cuts by managed care companies, thousands of doctors in New York and across the country are turning to cosmetic medicine to keep their practices lucrative.
The reason is simple: because nearly every elective procedure intended to improve the appearance of a patient is not paid for by insurance companies, patients must pay up front, often staggering sums. Laser eye surgery, for instance, costs about $5,000. For doctors, that means no rejected bills, no paperwork and no reduced payments by managed care companies.
In some practices, cosmetic procedures are supplementing basic care; in others, they are nearly replacing it.
Insurance reimbursement fees to doctors have dropped significantly in recent years, said Timothy J. Murphy, chief executive of QVS Technology Group, a health care consulting firm in Des Plaines, Ill., that helps doctors set up alternatives to their usual business. "And when doctors lost that, like any red-blooded American, they thought to themselves, 'What am I going to do here?' "
And with a strong economy, there seems to be no shortage of deep-pocketed consumers who feel their lives will be enhanced by having fewer wrinkles, perpetually hairless legs and a face free of cumbersome eyeglasses. In turn, explosions in technology have made many of these aesthetic procedures more precise and easier to practice.
Elective procedures make up nearly 25 percent of many medical practices like plastic surgery and dermatology in urban areas, experts in the field said, up from 10 percent five years ago.
The trend is led by laser eye surgery, which in just a few years has transformed ophthalmology; in the last two years alone, the number of Americans who underwent laser eye surgery to correct their vision problems increased more than 500 percent, and doctors who do the procedure are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars marketing themselves.
Doctors in a host of other medical specialties are also joining aesthetics with medicine: dermatologists, especially in major cities, are prescribing more Botox injections for wrinkles than they are acne medicines, and many are selling anti-aging creams and other beauty products in their offices. Dentists are using the latest in super-whitening techniques. And even obstetrician-gynecologists are offering laser hair removal to their patients.
The attraction of cosmetic medicine, with its fee-for-service payment structure and high demand, may mean that many doctors will now shun more basic but less lucrative practices like general eye care and reconstructive surgery for accident victims.
"What you will find is that the supply of the low-profit services will decline," said Dr. David Friend, a health care management consultant with Watson Wyatt Worldwide in Boston. "The result is a tiering effect, where the best doctors are doing the private stuff and doctors unable to succeed in those things will provide the public service care. We have created an incentive for everyone who can to get out of low-margin businesses, and that could have enormous policy implications."
Dr. Alan R. Kling, who has a dermatologic and cosmetic surgery practice on Park Avenue, said that he is one such doctor. "There are certain cases that I am not doing anymore," Dr. Kling said, citing complicated cancer surgeries for which he said insurance companies reimburse him only $100, one-fourth his cost.
Dr. Kling, whose hold music on his telephone is a running ad for liposuction and skin injections, said that in 1996, things like liposuction and Botox accounted for only 5 percent of his business. Now, they are closer to 25 percent. "It used to be when people who came out of school wanted to do cosmetics, they were looked down on," he said. "At Harvard, they called it 'throwing the pearls to the swine.' Now, in terms of survival, it is what you do."
Dr. Fromer, the ophthalmologist, said that five years ago, the core of his business was retina surgery and general ophthalmology. Now, 90 percent is laser eye surgery. He also points to economics. In the early 1990's, he said, Medicare would pay him $3,000 to $3,500 for cataract surgery, but now he receives $750 to $2,000 per case. "I would describe laser as the thing that allows me to offer general care to my patients," Dr. Fromer said.
As it turns out, deciding to offer procedures that cater to vain, stressed out or just very wealthy patients is not a simple matter of buying new equipment and adding another line to a Yellow Pages ad. Doctors find that they have to overhaul their entire practices, from the way their receptionists answer the phone to the couches patients sit on to the length of time they make patients wait for an appointment.
And they often spend thousands of dollars on advertising: anyone listening to AM radio for an hour might think the only things for sale in America are laser eye surgery and auto insurance.
"The demographics for these procedures is much younger, maybe 30 to 55 years old," said Mr. Murphy of QVS Technology Group. "You have to treat them differently than a 70-year-old patient trying to get an appointment because they can't see."
" 'I'll see if we can fit you in in three weeks' won't work with the McDonald's society who wants it hot, wants in now and wants it cheap," he said. "The staff has to give high-class treatment. We compare it to the airline industry: there is a difference between the first-class cabin and the back of the bus."
Dr. Fromer said that he gave his office one such face lift. The furniture and waiting room are turned out in subtle, tasteful tones. The equipment is sleek and spotless, as though it just fell off a space ship.
Patients recovering from their surgery rest in reclining chairs, covered in soft cotton blankets. His office employees look as though they would fit in quite well behind the counter of an upscale gym.
"When a patient walks through the door," he said, "they have to see that the doctor has done this before, that the equipment is top-notch and the office has to be extremely friendly."
At the SoHo Integrative Health Center, atmosphere is taken to the highest level. Patients see an array of specialists on one floor, including an obstetrician-gynecologist, ophthalmologist and internist, and can get their facials, massages, nutritional therapy and Eastern medicine by climbing a winding staircase past the slate waterfall. (Dr. Polis, who runs the center, sent back the slate once when it was not to her satisfaction.)
"It makes coming to the doctor feel more like self care," Dr. Polis said. "So if you include a massage, well, that is self care, too. There is no need to compare the importance of a Pap smear with a facial."
This medical mall of sorts -- where the plain vanilla medical needs can be matched with aesthetic desires all under the same elegant fabric-covered roof -- is driven by consumer demand, she said. "Those doctors who resist the trends in the way they deliver medicine are not in tune to their patients' needs."
When money cannot be made in procedures alone, there are products that can be sold. Dozens of businesses have opened across the country in recent years to provide dermatologists with skin care products. Often, the preparations they sell are similar to those sold in department stores, only at a higher strength.
Dr. Steven J. Pearlman, the director of the Division of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, sells alpha-hydroxy creams to prevent skin aging, and bleaching creams for brown spots. "They make up for overhead," he said, declining to specify his exact profit margin.
Offering skin care products and substituting a lot of the ear, nose, throat and cancer-related surgeries he used to do with cosmetic procedures have given his practice a whole new lease on life, Dr. Pearlman said.
"With medical things, first you have to fulfill numerous requirements, like getting precertified," he said. "You get paid way later and have generated a load of paperwork. With cosmetic things, it is, 'Nice to meet you, here is the procedure, let's do it or not do it.' It is how medicine used to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Alan R. Kling, shown doing liposuction surgery, says he has stopped performing some procedures because insurance payments are too low. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Dr. Mark D. Fromer performing laser eye surgery. Many doctors are turning to elective procedures to keep their practices lucrative. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TECHNOLOGY GROUP INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); TECHNOLOGY GROUP INC (BALTIMORE, MARYLAND) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DOCTORS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CATARACTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL LASERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (89%); DERMATOLOGY (89%); LASER EYE SURGERY (89%); ACNE (78%); CANCER (78%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (77%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (77%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (77%); SKIN DISORDERS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); DENTAL INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AGING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); SKIN CANCER (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER ALAN R KLING (68%); MARK D FROMER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



458 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: The Debilitated Russian Military

 BODY:
Moscow's recent setbacks in Chechnya suggest that the decade-long deterioration of Russia's conventional military forces has not yet been checked. The Chechnya operations have been characterized by command failures, overreliance on crude and obsolete weaponry and sparing use of regular Russian ground forces, whose combat readiness is uncertain and morale unsteady.
Although Americans may feel relieved that Russian conventional forces are now too weak to pose a serious external threat, there is a worrisome side to Russia's military breakdown. Moscow's defense planners have placed greater reliance on nuclear weapons to resist potential attack. Further, there is a risk that battlefield failures in Chechnya during the coming Russian presidential campaign could spur demands for a costly and wasteful military buildup. 
 Russia needs to repair its armed forces. But it should do so through rational downsizing and modernization, not by a futile attempt to rebuild along cold-war lines. Large-scale remilitarization would draw away resources and energies urgently needed for reviving the economy and reinvigorating government administration.
Moscow has learned some lessons from its first disastrous campaign in Chechnya, from 1994 to '96. In the first phase of the current campaign Russian forces advanced steadily, behind inaccurate but lethal artillery and air strikes, through the lowlands of northern Chechnya. This approach broke down once the war reached its present stage of fighting in the mountains of southern Chechnya and the urban outskirts of Grozny, the Chechen capital. In recent weeks Chechen guerrillas have staged effective counterattacks and even managed to retake some areas from Russian control.
The Kremlin needs to reconfigure Russia's military forces to better fit the country's post-cold-war needs and resources. In the past dozen years, Russian troop strength has shrunk from around five million to about a million and a half. Investment in everything from nuclear weapons maintenance to new aircraft and tanks has dried up. Military salaries are paid erratically, recruits are treated brutally and conscription orders are widely ignored. While Russia's nuclear weapons still appear to be under effective political control, security at nuclear installations has deteriorated and power and communications interruptions are alarmingly frequent.
Nuclear weapons reduction negotiations with the United States must be revitalized. Russia's new Parliament should quickly ratify the long-stalled 1993 treaty with Washington that provides for Russia's present total of some 6,700 nuclear warheads to be cut almost in half. Formal talks should then begin on a new treaty to bring warhead levels well below 2,000. America can encourage Russia to reform its military forces. But the first steps must be taken by Moscow. The place to begin is by disengaging Russian troops from Chechnya at the earliest possible date.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); MOUNTAINS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



459 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
TheLandgrab.com

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Just beyond the headlines about AOL merging with Time Warner and the Internet retailers having a blowout Christmas, there is another, more important land grab under way in cyberspace, which by the time it's over could have an interesting impact on the global balance of power.
Let me put it to you this way: If you think the French and other Europeans are annoyed with U.S. economic dominance today, wait until they wake up and see the high ground that some key U.S. companies are seizing in the business-to-business area of cyber-commerce. These companies are creating the global exchanges that are going to mediate a huge amount of industrial e-commerce in the next decade. 
 The closest thing to these exchanges the consumer would see is eBay -- the auction site, where individuals can buy or sell anything from their basements. But imagine eBays for a whole set of industries, where goods and services related to any aspect of that industry can be exchanged between buyers and sellers.
For instance, you already have Metalsite.com and E-Steel.com, where construction companies from anywhere in the world can put out their steel needs to the lowest bidder. There is already E-Chemicals.com and Chemdex.com for chemicals and life science products. And soon, no doubt, e-rubber, e-plastics and e-cement.
In a world without walls, these global exchanges will be the shapers of the rules, standards and technology by which a whole host of goods and services will be bought, sold, auctioned and bartered. Thousands of companies are already throwing away their catalogues and traditional supplier relationships and plugging into these mega-exchanges, where they will buy everything from paper to plastics. Because of America's lead in this cyberspace land grab, these exchanges are being created largely in the U.S.
"Most of this is still happening just below the horizon, and the numbers are still relatively small, so people don't see it yet," said Joel Cawley, director of corporate strategy for I.B.M. "But estimates are that these big exchanges will mediate between 30 and 40 percent of industrial e-commerce by 2004. Once they get on everyone's radar screen, it will be too late. The winners will be established, and the cost of switching from a key site, or starting up a new one, will be very high."
These online exchanges usually start out as spot markets, where excess inventories are sold. But because of their efficiency, and potential to be globalized, they are quickly evolving into worldwide market-makers.
Look at Enron. It has set up an online marketplace through which companies all over the world are now able to buy and sell natural gas, electricity, coal, plastics, pulp, paper and oil -- and, coming soon, bandwidth. Bandwidth is the basic electronic pipe down which companies send their Internet traffic. Through Enron's Pooling Point Operators -- where ties between bandwidth buyers and sellers will be established and monitored -- a school with excess bandwidth capacity during the summer will be able to sell its surplus to a company with rising bandwidth demand. Bandwidth deals that used to take months to close will take seconds.
"We were the first to do this sort of thing for trading natural gas and electricity," says Enron's C.E.O., Kenneth Lay, "but we think the bandwidth market will be the biggest of all. It is now a $30 billion market and in three years or so it should be $90 to $100 billion. And it will be global. We are already operating in the U.S., and will soon be in Europe and Asia."
The Internet economy runs on bandwidth, so if Enron's exchange works, it could be the equivalent of discovering cyber-oil -- for Enron and for the U.S.
"There are strong advantages to being the first mover in these sorts of global markets," said Mr. Lay. "When you are first, you get scale very quickly, and with that comes economies that lower your transaction costs, and that gives you more liquidity and the ability to do more complicated transactions than others. We will have competitors, I'm sure. But it's pretty much a winner-take-all environment. The early entrants into these markets will in large part determine how they are shaped. And once an entity establishes a strong market position in this kind of global market, it is awfully tough to overtake it." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ENRNQ (OTC) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); NATURAL GAS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INVENTORIES (71%); FUEL MARKETS (63%); SPOT MARKET (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



460 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Most Foreign Markets Rise; Dollar Slips Against Yen
Most major foreign stock markets ended higher while United States markets were closed in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday. The dollar edged up against the euro, but slipped against the Japanese yen in overseas trading. 
 The gains in European stocks were led by telecommunications companies. In Frankfurt, the Dax index rose 85.68 points, or 1.19 percent, to 7,258.90, its second consecutive record close. And, in Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 stock average rose 480.68 points, or 2.5 percent, to 19,437.23, its highest close in two and a half years. The French CAC-40 index and the Ibex 35 index in Spain closed up nearly 1 percent. C16.
 
Bid Made for Japanese Drugmaker
Boehringer Ingelheim, a large German pharmaceuticals company, started a tender offer for shares of SS Pharmaceuticals, a Japanese drugmaker, in another sign of deregulation's ability to pry open the Japanese economy and breath new life into business. C16.
 
Brazil Warily Celebrates Recovery
The Brazilian economy has recovered from its currency crisis of a year ago with record inflows of $28 billion in foreign direct investment in 1999; a 12-month stock market rally of 164 percent in local-currency terms, and growth forecast this year at 3.5 percent, compared with a rise of perhaps 1 percent in 1999. C4.
 
Fighting Securities Fraud in Canada
The Ontario Securities Commission is pushing three high-profile cases, two involving insider trading, into court, where convictions would help reverse a belief that stock market scandals occur frequently in Canada because there is little risk for wrongdoers. C4.
 
Report Challenges Bertelsmann
A year after Bertelsmann, the German media conglomerate, appointed an independent group of scholars to examine its disputed history during the Nazi era, the commission issued a preliminary report that took issue with corporate lore that the Nazis closed the publishing company because of its political opposition. The four-member commission's tentative conclusion was that Bertelsmann was closed simply because its product was not considered critically important for the war effort. E1.
 
American Girl's Retail Play
American Girl Place, since opening in Chicago's most expensive shopping district in 1998, has drawn 750,000 girls and women (and a few men) from around the world, and in its first year in business has made $25 million, more than twice the original projection, for its parent, the Pleasant Company of Middleton, Wis. The store offers not only the wildly popular American Girl dolls and their extravagant accessories, but other distractions like a theater, a cafe and a doll hospital. C2.
 
Using E-Mail to Market Citrus
Growers in Florida are using digital cameras and the Internet to market their fruit far from the citrus groves and to resolve disputes when shipments arrive damaged. C2.
 
Preparing for the 'Dot-Com Bowl'
More than a dozen Internet companies are scheduled to make their Super Bowl advertising debuts during football's championship game on Jan. 30, compared with three in 1999 and one apiece in 1998 and 1997. The eagerness of dot-coms to parade themselves before what is usually the largest viewing audience of the year helped drive ad rates for Super Bowl XXXIV to a record average of more than $2 million for each 30-second spot during the game, at least 25 percent more than the 1999 rate. Some latecomers are paying up to $3 million for their 30 seconds of fame. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.
 
U.S. Financial Markets Reopen
United States financial markets will reopen today. They were closed Monday in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Graph tracks the DAX index since January 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 4537 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (78%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG (82%); PLEASANT CO (61%); BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (56%); SSP CO LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); EURO (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); PUBLISHING (63%); CITRUS GROVES (60%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



461 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: In Policy Shift, G.M. Will Rely On Alliances

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 17

 BODY:
In the first acknowledgment by the world's largest corporation that it cannot go it alone, the chairman of the General Motors Corporation said tonight that the company would rely more on partnerships and would better be described as "the General Motors group."
"Our approach is to develop long-term relationships with other companies that offer a unique advantage to the General Motors group of brands and businesses," said John F. Smith Jr., chairman and chief executive of G.M., who was speaking at the Automotive News World Congress here. "This alliance strategy is our major thrust, and it is clearly a different approach to growth than most people have associated with General Motors -- or with the rest of the industry, for that matter." 
 The change in philosophy is remarkable for a company so large that its spending seems to dwarf third-world economies, one so big that a factory closing can attract more attention than the closing of a United States military base, and one that can be as difficult to turn as a battleship.
"No automaker today has the resources to achieve leadership in all regions and all product segments on its own," Mr. Smith said, not even G.M., with its global presence and scores of brands -- from the Chevrolet Camaro to the Cadillac DeVille.
G.M. has longstanding alliances with Isuzu Motors, Suzuki Motor and Toyota Motor. But it has recently expanded some partnerships, forged new ones and even formed three-way alliances. It is also employing the alliance strategy with gusto when it comes to Internet initiatives.
Last year, G.M. and Toyota formed a manufacturing partnership to include research and development on fuel cell and gas-electric hybrid vehicles.
About a month ago, it formed an alliance with Fuji Heavy Industries and its Subaru brand. G.M. benefits from Fuji's strength in small sport utility vehicles, continuously variable transmissions and all-wheel-drive systems, while Fuji can look forward to sharing G.M.'s vehicle platforms and other technologies.
G.M. has also cut a deal with the Honda Motor Company in which Honda will contribute six-cylinder engines and transmissions for a future vehicle, and G.M's previous partner, Isuzu, will send Honda diesel engines for European sales.
"We are also discussing collaboration with Honda on other technology and other business opportunities," Mr. Smith said. "We expect the value of the experience of working together, getting to know each other at the individual level as well as companies, to far outweigh the limited scope of this initial agreement."
Just last week, G.M. said it would buy the half of Saab Automobile of Sweden that it did not already own. And it is now among the bidders for most of Daewoo Motor of South Korea.
"We will not rule out acquisitions and mergers as opportunities arise," Mr. Smith said.
Those kinds of alliances will play an important role in G.M.'s Internet strategies, Mr. Smith said. Last week alone, G.M. said it would enter marketing partnerships with Sony, America Online and NetZero.
Tonight, Mr. Smith said that G.M. was working on another alliance that would give customers using G.M.'s Onstar safety and communications program a single bill for that service and for wireless phone service -- most likely a deal with a large telecommunications provider. That deal could comes within days, he said.
While G.M. has already predicted that its Onstar service would have a million customers by the end of this year, Mr. Smith also said tonight that Onstar would have four million customers by 2003. Onstar customers can now call operators, who are able to call tow trucks when needed or even make restaurant reservations. Before the end of the year, G.M. expects 400,000 Onstar customers to have the capability to use voice-recognition systems and cellular phone connections to talk to their cars, and to reach the Internet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (67%); TM (NYSE) (67%); 7203 (TSE) (67%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 7270 (TSE) (55%); 7202 (TSE) (54%); 7269 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (54%); SUZUKI MOTOR CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, JOHN F JR; MEREDITH, ROBYN JOHN F SMITH JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



462 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Using the Dollar To Hold the Line;
U.S. Currency Becomes Ecuador's

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 16

 BODY:
Even in the rest of Latin America, this country of 12 million has never been regarded as much of an economic leader. But by deciding to replace Ecuador's currency with the American dollar, President Jamil Mahuad has thrust his nation onto center stage of a heated, continent-wide debate about monetary policy and economic relations with the United States.
Mr. Mahuad's unexpected move, announced on Jan. 9 amid a political crisis that threatened to topple him, is a textbook example of what economists call dollarization, and provides the test case long sought by advocates of that policy, once considered as much a fringe notion across the hemisphere as the flat tax still is in the United States. 
 So for the next few months, both the Clinton administration and its trading partners from Canada to Chile will be watching the experiment here intently -- and with a healthy dose of skepticism.
At the moment, the only country in Latin America that uses the dollar as its currency is Panama, which took that decision almost immediately after breaking away from Colombia in 1903. Because Panama is so small and was so closely linked to the United States by the Panama Canal Zone, the rest of Latin America has traditionally viewed it as a unique and not especially attractive case in which national sovereignty was traded for stability.
But the trend toward regional trading blocs, including the possibility of forming a Free Trade Area of the Americas as early as 2005, has forced a re-examination of that attitude. The success of the euro, especially as it affects the mother countries of Latin America, has also made the notion of a single currency for the hemisphere more plausible and attractive.
"Joining the euro group has been a more secure arrangement for Spain and Portugal, with lower inflation rates" and rapid growth, said Ricardo Hausmann, chief economist of the Inter-American Development Bank. "If a monetary treaty can be negotiated, it could be attractive for Latin America."
Economists and government officials say the nations that would be most tempted to follow Ecuador's example are those of Central America, which already conduct the bulk of their trade with the United States. In El Salvador, for instance, dollar remittances from Salvadorans in the United States are now the principal source of foreign exchange.
In reality, many Latin American nations already rely on dollars, to one degree or another. At the checkout counters of many supermarkets in Peru, for example, the bills given to shoppers are calculated both in dollars and Peruvian soles. Customers pay in either currency.
Other Latin American countries, most notably Argentina, have formally adopted mechanisms that tie the exchange rate of their pesos to the dollar and have made the two currencies fully convertible at that fixed rate. And beyond Latin America, Liberia in Africa and a few tiny island nations in the Pacific have embraced dollarization, while Hong Kong has followed an approach similar to that of Argentina and its currency board since 1983.
Indeed, the consistent popularity of the currency in world markets has meant that most United States dollars can be found in other countries. The Federal Reserve estimates that about $580 billion is in circulation globally, two-thirds outside of the United States.
 "Most countries have a large amount of their debt in dollars, maintain a large percent of their reserves abroad in dollars, and write contracts indexed to the dollar," said a World Bank official. "In a country like Argentina, a lot of the costs of dollarization have already been incurred, so the step to full dollarization would not be that great."
Countries adopting the dollar "may lose some flexibility in domestic policy issues," John S. Reed, the co-chairman of Citigroup, acknowledged in a speech to a Mexican bankers' group last year. But he and several other analysts argue that any relinquishing of autonomy would be offset by increased investment and capital flows and other gains.
"Full dollarization, if credible, eliminates devaluation risk, and, consequently, will likely result in interest rates which are both lower and less sensitive to crisis in other countries," Guillermo Calvo, director of the Center for International Economics at the University of Maryland and a former adviser to the International Monetary Fund, said in recent testimony before Congress. "In other words, the incidence of contagion will diminish."
Those who advocate formal adoption of the American dollar argue that it would also benefit countries in which wage-earners are used to seeing their purchasing power eroded by high inflation and a weak currency. "I don't know of a single worker who would complain if he were paid in dollars," Alberto Fernandez Garza, president of the Mexican Employers' Federation, said recently.
Indeed, some analysts even suggest that dollarization could be a tool to reduce income inequality. Today, Mr. Hausmann said, "workers are paid in pesos and executives in dollars, and workers can see the advantage of that; they want exchange-rate stability, too."
The United States position on the issue is one that former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin once described as "agnostic." While the Clinton administration sees potential advantages and opportunities to extend American interests and power, it has also expressed concern about the mechanics of the process and the added burdens it might generate.
"We would never put ourselves in a position where we envisioned actions that we would take would be of assistance to the rest of the world but to the detriment of the United States," Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told a Congressional panel last year. To Latin American economists, that meant Washington is unwilling to extend the safety net of the Federal Reserve system to any dollarized countries that get into economic trouble. Nor would the Fed conduct monetary policy to take account of cyclical differences between Latin America and the United States.
One clear benefit to the United States would come from "seignorage" fees that would have to be paid by countries that abandon their own currencies. Though it costs only pennies to manufacture paper bills, those notes would be sold at face value to nations adopting the dollar, resulting in a substantial profit for the American Treasury.
"By acquiring dollars for use in their domestic economies, dollarizing countries would be extending an interest-free loan to the United States," Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers told the Senate Banking Committee last year.
If the entire region were to adopt the dollar, that would amount to several billion dollars a year, unless treaties waiving such fees could be negotiated, which Latin American countries have said they would want.
In Washington on Friday, Mr. Summers said there was no likelihood of a monetary treaty or any other official accord with Ecuador regarding its dollarization. "No formal agreement is in prospect," he said after a speech at the Institute for International Economics.
Creating a dollar zone would also be likely to accelerate the integration of Latin American economies with the United States and create trade opportunities for American companies. "The United States has a lot to gain, given that these countries are fertile ground for absorbing U.S. exports," Mr. Calvo said.
In times of conflict the United States might even be able to use the dollar as an economic weapon, withholding currency from an intractable government to bend it to Washington's will. Indeed, the Bush administration took just that step against Panama as part of its effort to overthrow Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega.
But Clinton administration officials have made it clear that given the region's long history of political and economic instability, they worry the relationship could become too close. Dollarization in the Americas stands in sharp contrast to the experience of Europe, where a group of countries at similar levels of economic development created a new currency and established a new common central bank to manage it.
"The Federal Reserve would be buying the problems of places like Colombia and Argentina" if those countries were to give up their own monetary system and adopt the dollar as currency, said a senior official of an international lending agency who talks often with American policy makers. "They don't want that headache. Their attitude is 'use your own aspirin.' "
In his testimony to the Senate Banking Committee last year, Mr. Summers suggested as much, saying that "given the political dynamics that play out in those societies at times of economic frustration," resentment "could be vented at us."
He added that if dollarization "led to that kind of sense of eroding national responsibility, it might be unfortunate for the countries involved, and it might be unfortunate for their relationship with us."
Though American officials have thus far refrained from saying so publicly, nothing about the way or the reasons Ecuador has dollarized makes them view it as a model. The economy here is in a deep recession, and output fell by 7.5 percent last year. The nation's inflation was the highest in Latin America, at more than 60 percent, and in September, the Mahuad government defaulted on about half of Ecuador's $13 billion in foreign debt, not exactly a move to build confidence among investors.
Not only is the country's economy in terrible shape, but the decision to dollarize was taken hastily and unilaterally, for reasons more political than economic, catching Washington and international lending agencies completely by surprise. That creates a risk that if the experiment here fails, it will damage the concept's credibility elsewhere in the region.
"Countries can obviously choose to adopt the dollar as legal tender without our assent," Mr. Summers said in his 1999 testimony. "However, such a decision has some consequences for the United States, and we hope and expect that countries would consult with us in advance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday tracing the weakness of four Latin American currencies against the dollar carried incorrect percentage labels; it would have been impossible for Ecuador's currency to drop more than 100 percent. From Jan. 5, 1996, through Jan. 14, 2000, the Chilean currency declined 21 percent, the Brazilian currency 46 percent and the the Ecuadorean currency 88 percent; Argentina's currency was unchanged. A corrected chart appears today on Page C13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ecuadoreans protested Jan. 10 in Guayaquil against the government's plan to replace the country's currency, the sucre, with the United States dollar. But dollars are already commonly exchanged for sucres, below, on the streets of Quito. (Agence France-Presse, left; Associated Press, above); President Jamil Mahuad acted to aid the economy. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Police in the Ecuadorean capital of Quito used riot gear in their clashes last Wednesday with protesters who opposed the government's plan to replace the country's currency, the sucre, with the dollar. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C7)
 
Chart: "Desperate Measures"
In Latin America, the currencies of most countries have lost ground against the dollar lately, but none as badly as Ecuador, which is in a severe economic crisis. The proposal to replace sucres with United States dollars differs from the policy in Argentina, where the peso is kept equal to the dollar by a currency board, and from Brazil and Chile, which allow their currencies to float.
 
Graph tracks several Latin American currencies since 1998.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (99%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); PANAMA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHILE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (72%); GUAYAQUIL, ECUADOR (57%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (64%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (99%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); PANAMA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHILE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); QUITO, ECUADOR (72%); GUAYAQUIL, ECUADOR (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US DOLLAR (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); INFLATION (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); 

PERSON: MAHUAD, JAMIL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



463 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Annan Picks Ex-Arms Inspector To Head Iraq Monitoring Panel

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Rolf Ekeus, the Swedish arms-control expert who found and destroyed large quantities of Iraqi weapons after the war in 1991 in the Persian Gulf, was called back today by Secretary General Kofi Annan to lead a new commission created to finish the job more than a year after monitoring broke down.
Mr. Annan made the appointment after a deadline on Sunday came and went for the Security Council to come up with its own nomination. But in selecting Mr. Ekeus without achieving consensus in the council, the secretary general was in effect daring Iraq's supporters on the council, particularly Russia and China, to veto his choice. 
 Iraq has long criticized Mr. Ekeus, who headed the United Nations arms-inspection team from 1991 to 1997, and ridiculed his selection as "old wine in a new bottle."
This evening, Russia formally registered its objection, throwing the nomination of Mr. Ekeus, now Sweden's ambassador to the United States, into doubt and setting up a confrontation between Washington and Moscow. China, increasingly ready to take a cue from the Russians, may also weigh in against the appointment. The French could then break ranks with Britain and other European countries that support the American position.
A new showdown over Iraq is something that the Clinton administration has, by most accounts, sought desperately to avoid in an election year. American diplomats had seemed hopeful earlier today that there would be no serious challenges to Mr. Annan's choice.
The Security Council is to take up the issue at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, diplomats said. There are concerns among council delegations that friends of Iraq, led by Russia, intend to make this into what American politicians would recognize as a filibuster. By stalling action on a new inspection system, they could indefinitely postpone any resolution of the Iraq crisis.
Meanwhile, support for economic sanctions is steadily eroding, most of all in Russia and France, where business interests are paramount.
Iraq has been under United Nations sanctions since the invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. To have them lifted, it has to meet disarmament requirements in biological, chemical, nuclear and missile systems. But officials here predict that additional nations may be tempted to expand commercial interests in Iraq, which is selling oil at record prices under a more generous program intended to provide civilians with needed goods. Iraq's recent history would indicate that it will try to use the cover of civilian imports to acquire material for weapons.
A resolution on Dec. 17 to revise United Nations policy toward Iraq and send arms inspectors back to the country stipulated that a new chief arms inspector be chosen in 30 days. Mr. Annan had spent several weeks steering through multiple objections to a long list of candidates.
"Over 30 days, he raised something like 25 names and could not find one on which all could agree," said Mr. Annan's spokesman, Fred Eckhard. "So he put forward the name of the person he thought best for the job."
Mr. Ekeus was chosen with at least the tacit approval if not the urging of the Clinton administration, some United Nations officials and diplomats say. His appointment was quickly applauded by the State Department.
"We thank the secretary general for his exhaustive efforts to find a candidate who meets the rigorous criteria necessary to carry out this important disarmament mission," said a statement by a spokesman for the State Department, James P. Foley.
Some diplomats and officials, who have watched the administration steadily withdraw from involvement on the Iraqi issue here, said with Mr. Ekeus in place administration officials could assure critics that a credible chief inspector was back on the job, even if sanctions were ultimately lifted in the process.
The administration would be history by the time that happened, given the steps Iraq has to agree to take to meet disarmament requirements.
Both Congress and the administration have had disagreements with Mr. Annan in the past over his handling of Iraq, in particular his trip to Baghdad in February 1998. That was even though the agreement that he signed there ended a stalemate over inspections, sparing the United States from having to take military action then.
Later, Washington also objected to two of Mr. Annan's appointees in Iraq, saying they were too sympathetic to the government.
In recent days, diplomats and arms-control experts have said that Mr. Annan could not afford to be seen as giving in to Iraq on a new inspector.
Managing the issue now lies with the president of the Security Council this month, Richard C. Holbrooke. Today, Mr. Holbrooke, who has largely stayed clear of Iraq since his arrival in August as the American representative, gave council members 24 hours to study Mr. Annan's nomination of Mr. Ekeus and decide whether they would challenge it. Russia was the first to raise an objection.
Had there been no objections, Mr. Ekeus would have automatically become executive chairman of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission.
Iraq, too, immediately attacked the nomination. Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, who is visiting Spain, called the move dishonest. For several weeks, the Iraqis, apparently expecting a more conciliatory gesture from the secretary general, have been harshly critical of Mr. Annan in the controlled Iraqi press. While serving as chief inspector in Iraq, Mr. Ekeus was routinely vilified by the Iraqis, who called him "the damned Ekeus" and accused him of, among other things, causing the starvation of Iraqi children and being an Israeli spy.
In his low-keyed methodic way, Mr. Ekeus kept up the pressure in a protracted game of cat and mouse. He sent divers to the depths of a canal to find illegally imported missile parts that the Iraqis had hurriedly jettisoned. He documented a nuclear program larger than atomic-weapons experts had imagined existed. He badgered Iraq on its unacceptable accounting for biological warfare materials until literally cartons of damning information were suddenly "found" on a chicken farm -- and still he was not satisfied.
In an interview at the end of his tenure in June 1997, Mr. Ekeus said that President Saddam Hussein had never given up plans to build biological and chemical weapons and that the Iraqis were prepared to lie at every step of the inspection effort to conceal and salvage their illicit programs.
"They tell the most incredible stories," Mr. Ekeus said. "It's like the 'Thousand and One Nights,' where every night they tell a different story to save themselves."
Mr. Ekeus was criticized, however, for agreeing in 1996 to Iraqi demands for restrictions on inspections at some sites close to the Iraqi leadership. Some arms-control experts say that from that moment on Iraq steadily widened the wedge of "unacceptable" searches and "off limits" sites, barring inspectors from presidential palaces and ministerial offices where they suspected that documents and equipment might have been hidden.
Richard Butler, the Australian arms control expert who followed Mr. Ekeus as chairman of the first disarmament commission, known as Unscom, inherited a fast-unraveling system and ultimately lost the support of the Clinton administration in efforts to stand up to the Iraqis. Today, Mr. Butler said that the next 24 hours would be critical for the new inspection program.
Mr. Butler, now a diplomat in residence at the Council on Foreign Relations, said in an interview the council was confronted with "the same issue that it was trying to solve with this resolution, namely a recalcitrant state bucking its authority."
"The first specific test," he said, "was the appointment of a new executive chairman, and here the behavior last week of the members of the Security Council who are clearly the spokespeople for Iraq suggests that they are not prepared to see an appointment of which Iraq does not approve.
"By that action, on this issue at least, they are effectively making Iraq the sixth veto power at the council. All of this raises the gravest question about the council's willingness or ability to implement its own law and to protect its own authority.
"In these circumstances, what chance is there that Iraq would agree to the re-establishment of an effective monitoring system if they are being allowed a veto on a matter like who the executive chairman should be? Rolf Ekeus is an admirably qualified person. Probably no one knows more about this subject than he. Maybe that's precisely why they are vetoing him."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the choice of a leader for the new United Nations commission that is to monitor Iraq's weapons programs misstated the selection process. Secretary General Kofi Annan named Rolf Ekeus of Sweden after the Security Council failed to agree on any candidate Mr. Annan was considering. The council was not to make its own nomination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (93%); GULF STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; CHINA ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (93%); GULF STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); POLITICS (86%); FILIBUSTER (86%); ARMS TRADE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); EKEUS, ROLF HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000



464 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD;
The Fed Grants a Loan to Spain. How Much Cash? None.

BYLINE: By Al Goodman 

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board in Washington is known for setting monetary policy, not for its modest art collection. But for the first time the Fed has allowed part of that collection, which is dominated by American paintings, to be shown beyond its own headquarters.
Even in Washington, the public rarely sees the Fed's art because it hangs in offices and private reception areas. But 34 of the Fed's 270 artworks are on view in a show through Jan. 30 at the Banco de Espana, Spain's central bank. The exhibition, "Architecture and Paintings From the Federal Reserve Board," includes a 19th-century landscape of New York State by Alexander Lawrie that normally adorns the office of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and other works by William de Leftwich Dodge and William Trost Richards. 
 "It's never been done before," said Mary Anne Goley, the Fed's fine arts director, of the overseas show. Although the Fed exhibited 55 recent acquisitions at its Washington headquarters in 1996, this is the first time that any part of the collection has traveled anywhere.
The Madrid show is a double payback to Spain's central bank, which inspired the Fed to build its own collection and lent 13 old masters, including 3 Goyas, for an exhibition at the Fed last year.
Such exchanges are still rare, although several European central banks -- those in Britain and France, for instance -- have collections that dwarf the Fed's. The Bank of Spain owns 3,500 works, including 8 oils by Goya, who was commissioned in 1783 to paint portraits of the bank's senior officials.
In 1971 Arthur F. Burns, then chairman of the Fed and an avid amateur painter, saw the Spanish bank's art treasures during a visit to Madrid and returned to Washington determined to expand the Fed's collection, which then consisted of four paintings.
"We're the central bank of a great democracy, and he wanted to have something that spoke about our culture," Ms. Goley said. With Burns's influence the bank soon borrowed five paintings, three from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and two from a friend.
The Fed acquired its own art slowly after Ms. Goley was hired in 1975 as its first fine arts director. Most of the collection, she said, has come from tax-deductible donations, although the Fed does not accept gifts from those it regulates.
She also made numerous purchases over the years, especially from Manhattan dealers, and these works include some of the standouts at the Madrid show, like the Richards gouache on paper "Entrance to West Cove, Conanicut Island, R.I.," from 1882.
It depicts a rocky green terrain with grazing sheep in the foreground and sailboats in the distance. Ms. Goley said that she purchased it in 1979 from the Manhattan dealer Gil Einstein for $5,000 and that it was insured for $100,000.
She also bought a Dodge oil on canvas, "Midocean." Painted in 1896, it shows the deep-blue sea meeting a sky filled with purplish clouds, a scene inspired by Dodge's crossings between New York and Paris, where he studied art.
Half of the Madrid exhibition features 19th-century American art because it is little known in Spain, said Jose Maria Vinuela, the Spanish bank's curator, who organized the show. "I wanted a representation of the 19th-century landscape, which is really the century of creation of American painting," he said.
For the other half of the show, he chose such works as the richly drawn renderings by the architect Paul P. Cret for the construction of the Fed's current headquarters in Washington in the mid-1930's.
"These architectural drawings are a cut above," Ms. Goley said, "and of a certain date that really fell into the category of art, because of the shading and the projection of shadow."
Several of the renderings show intricate details, including the wall decorations in the Fed's boardroom, a plaster ceiling ornament and the elevations for doors and a fireplace.
Ms. Goley said she would like the Madrid show, which is open daily at the central bank at 50 Alcala Street, to be the start of other tours for the Fed's collection, with certain conditions.
"It's logical to assume that someone else would ask us, and our first question would be about the facility and can they guarantee the safety of the art objects," she said.
She complained that the frames of a few works suffered nicks during transportation to Spain. The Fed's collection is still not large enough to allow for a big loan of works without the risk of bare walls in Washington, she added.
There is no such problem in Mr. Greenspan's office, which sent the Lawrie oil on canvas, "Pleasant Valley," painted in 1867. The Fed chairman replaced it with a 19th-century John Tullidge landscape, "The Great Salt Lake."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Anne Goley, the Fed's fine arts director, with one of its works on view in Madrid, "Pleasant Valley." (Ramon Castro/Agencia EFE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; BANCO DE ESPANA XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; BANCO DE ESPANA

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MADRID, SPAIN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, AL; GOLEY, MARY ANNE ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



465 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
When Corporate Synergy Becomes Manifest Destiny

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
It was a scoop for Jim Lehrer. Within hours of the announcement of America Online's agreement to purchase Time Warner, the two chief mergees showed up for an interview. (In an image reversal, America Online's Steven M. Case was the one with the necktie, Time Warner's Gerald M. Levin the one without, inviting speculation that the $165 billion purchase price had included his tie.)
Instead of further torturing the technological ramifications of this marriage of the Internet to an entertainment and information empire and its implications for the stock market, which had been occupying the cable business channels since the announcement, Mr. Lehrer, in his customary common-sense way, wanted to know what the merger meant for the mere television viewer. 
 What difference would it make, for instance, to the PBS "NewsHour" fan who has found that an hour a day of discussion of serious events was worth more than the hours and hours of repetitious CNN reporting, commentary and Larry King, or to people, if there are any, who can't get excited at the prospect of buying twice as much stuff in half the time with a click or two?
Well, what he learned was that the merger had nothing to do with money and power. No, it was a public service, a liberation for consumers that promised to enrich all our lives. "This is not trying to have control for some self-serving reason," said Mr. Case. Mr. Levin was reading from the same inspirational script. "In business," he explained, "you can have a social commitment." He went on, "This company is going to operate in the public interest." He went further, "We want to make a better world."
It was a revivalist sing-along, lacking only the tribute to a higher power. Mr. Case said he was committed to creating "the most respected company in the world." Mr. Levin was carried away by a strange image of gobbling up all the information and entertainment that he foresees flooding America, digitally or otherwise: "I want to ingest it" and "embrace it" and "consume it." He sounded like a commercial for Pepcid AC. He did his own diagnosis and discovered that his genetic makeup assured "first-quality journalism."
You don't have to be a cynic to have trouble swallowing such image-embellishing claims. These advertisements for themselves, after all, come from men running institutions with a record. Time Warner's record these days ranges from respectable but rarely outstanding news coverage that plays hard on diversions like Monica Lewinsky. As for entertainment, it swings between the best of HBO and plenty of pop clutter. (With all appreciation for "The Sopranos," only in the dim world of television can that show have created quite such a sensation.)
As for the Internet, with its grand vision as a fount of information, for America Online subscribers it turns out to be mainly an engine of marketing. The special appeal of Time Warner to Mr. Case is, he confessed, "the power of established media brands and the customer relationships that those brands represent." Will the Internet's much hailed role as an idea exchange be more stimulating than a typical cable call-in show? What can the vaunted promise that consumers will now be able to make their own choices really mean as long as the menus are cooked up by Time Warner and America Online?
In trying to imagine the secret, tough, complex, high-powered negotiations that must have gone into their deal, it is difficult to see Mr. Levin and Mr. Case, not to mention their advisers from Salomon Smith Barney, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and other bottom-line professionals, pausing to worry about pledges of service to the world. It was complicated enough to figure out how the assets and the control should be shared without taking time out for mutual flattery.
The quotations from lesser corporate players prove more to the point. Executives regaled reporters with the prospect of CNN's cashing in on America Online's 22 million subscribers and America Online cashing in on CNN's "global brand," with Time Warner's enhanced ability to deliver saleable music online and America Online's ability to carry movies and other features concocted by Time Warner. Such are the calculations of a culture in which everything is merchandise.
It is also easy to appreciate the enthusiasm of Ted Turner, Time Warner's vice chairman and its biggest shareholder, who said, "When I cast my vote for 100 million shares, I did it with as much excitement as I felt the first time I made love some 42 years ago." The rise in Time Warner stock immediately after the merger announcement brought him a paper profit of $2.53 billion.
But what will all this do for Mr. Lehrer's viewers? Will the visions being floated by Messrs. Case and Levin include the enrichment and upgrading of the nation's sorry array of television offerings? Will the new megacompany find it economically inviting to compete with "NewsHour" in an upscale interview program? Will it find room for unprofitable documentaries? Will it take more chances on innovative entertainments?
Worries have been voiced by the merger's critics that the movement toward ever larger conglomerates will result in more uniformity instead of the diversity that the Internet is supposed to exemplify. But even if that does not happen, the Case-Levin duet does not inspire confidence. In at least one respect the changes they envision in the way information and entertainment are delivered will probably come to pass: There will be more brand names like Warner and Time, more readily available for Mr. Case to promote. But nothing about this merger offers the likelihood of higher-quality, pardon the expression, merchandise. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NEWS HOUR WITH JIM LEHRER, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER CORP AOL INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; LEHRER, JIM; CASE, STEPHEN M; LEVIN, GERALD M STEVE CASE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



466 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Dollars and Desperation

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Ecuador is a small, faraway country of which most Americans probably know nothing. (Hint: it's on the equator.) Last week, amid the hoopla of the AOL-Time Warner deal, one suspects that few noticed the surprise announcement by President Jamil Mahuad that he would abolish his nation's currency and replace it with the U.S. dollar. But there is an important story behind that story, which is not so much about Ecuador as about the great financial crisis that swept Asia in 1997-98, and the continuing debate over what to do when the next crisis strikes.
Everyone agrees that the Asian crisis was, in the first instance, a case of financial panic: basically, after enthusiastically putting hundreds of billions of dollars into Asia in the years before 1997, investors suddenly lost their nerve and began pulling out all at once, with catastrophic consequences. But there is a sharp difference of views over what could have prevented or at least mitigated that crisis. 
 Broadly speaking, one view holds that in times of panic the normal rules of business should be suspended -- that investors should be persuaded, or if necessary forced, to keep their money in place while the authorities get things under control. In the oddly euphemistic jargon of international finance, this is known as "burden-sharing," or even more obscurely as "private sector involvement."
The other view holds that the way to deal with panic is to try to reassure investors that their money is absolutely secure -- and that one way to do that is to offer an ironclad guarantee that their holdings of Korean won, or Indonesian rupiah, or Ecuadorian sucres, will not lose their value in terms of dollars. This can be done by establishing a "currency board," which holds dollar reserves large enough to back the entire national money supply; it can be done even more decisively by "dollarizing" -- that is, abandoning the national currency and using dollars instead.
It is an unresolved debate, because neither approach was given much of a trial. Hong Kong has a currency board, but was never itself the object of investor panic -- it just happened to be living in a bad neighborhood. Malaysia imposed controls on investors, but only after the worst of the panic was past.
And that's where Ecuador comes in. The small Latin nation has the dubious distinction of having plunged into crisis just as Asia climbed out; and as a result it has become a sort of guinea pig for economic nostrums. It is by no means an ideal choice as a clinical model. After all, at the beginning of 1997 Asian economies looked robustly healthy, with their government budgets balanced or in surplus; their crisis came, as it were, out of a clear blue sky.
Ecuador, by contrast, has always been more or less a mess; its plunging currency is only the outward sign of an inward disgrace, of a bankrupt banking system that cannot be rescued by an equally bankrupt government. But nonetheless, Ecuador is the test case we have, and its experience is likely to have a disproportionate effect on how the next big crisis is handled.
Indeed, the tiny nation has already done much to discredit the notion of "private sector involvement." Last September Ecuador decided, with more or less explicit encouragement from the International Monetary Fund, to temporarily suspend payment of some of its foreign debt. The experiment was a failure: while some investors found their money locked up, others continued to flee Ecuador, and the economy's tailspin continued.
Now its government has swung to the other extreme, and is trying to restore confidence in the currency by abolishing it. Observers say that this could work if it is accompanied by extensive domestic reform -- which is a bit like the old line that you can kill someone with witchcraft, if you also give him plenty of arsenic. But if it works, it will do much to make dollarization likely elsewhere (Argentina, for example); if it fails, as is much more likely, it will give dollarization a bad name.
And the outcome matters. Sometime -- almost surely sometime this decade -- there will be another great financial crisis like the ones that struck Mexico in 1994 or Asia in 1997. What will we do about it? Believe it or not, Ecuador may determine the answer. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: EQUATOR (74%); 

COMPANY: AOL TIME WARNER INC (58%); AOL TIME WARNER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EQUATOR (74%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BUDGETS (75%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



467 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Long Days, Short Beds on the Campaign Trail

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
This is the time of year when presidential candidates tramp around Iowa and proclaim their yearning for a better America. For Bill Bradley, that includes better motel beds.
Occasionally in his high-minded stump speeches, Mr. Bradley pauses to complain impishly about the "rubberized pillows" in Iowa's far-flung hotels and motels, and the sheets that "come loose from the mattress every time you turn over." He leaves out that it can't be any easier to sleep in a small bed for someone who is 6 feet 5 inches. 
 From Mr. Bradley's point of view, the bed that doesn't fit is an apt reflection of the Procrustean format of the Iowa caucuses next Monday, where the system so clearly favors Al Gore. Iowans choose their candidates not in a statewide primary but in 2,100 local caucuses, throwing the advantage to the entrenched unions, political clubs and community groups backing the vice president and long accustomed to getting their supporters out. The Bradley campaign compares its troubles to running against the Chicago Democratic machine.
Mr. Bradley's aides say they have no choice but to mobilize people who have never shown up at caucuses before -- kids, idealists, labor dissidents and others inclined toward the former senator's low-key fervor. Since the beginning of the year, he has spent $1.3 million in television advertising. He has devoted 10 days to traveling around the state, slipping into the role of itinerant preacher-like outsiders going back to Eugene McCarthy and Jimmy Carter, who used to quote the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr to the effect that "the sad duty of politics is to establish justice in a sinful world." But while often authentically inspiring, Mr. Bradley's appeals can come across as pious, ethereal and even a little grumpy.
There are of course the standard references to health care, poverty and economics in Mr. Bradley's speeches. But the candidate seems most distinctive when talking about making Americans feel "less lonely, less fearful and less isolated" in a changing world. "The untapped potential of the presidency is to unlock in each of us the capacity for self-fulfillment," he told a group celebrating Martin Luther King's birthday this week. He went on to promise to work for "a world of new possibilities guided by goodness."
Less artfully, Mr. Bradley told a separate group of students that it was not enough to battle bigotry in others. "If you haven't had a conversation about race in a long time with someone of another race, you are part of the problem," he said sternly, and perhaps a little sanctimoniously as well.
The former senator's style does not get much overt audience reaction, but that is O.K. with him. "I don't want applause," he said in a conversation aboard his bus as it rolled across central Iowa. "I want people to listen, and in the process be moved." His style, Mr. Bradley said, is "to lead from idealism and not interest-group politics" and "awaken in people what they believe politics could be." If his approach does not work, he said with a shrug, "I'm out, and life goes on."
By contrast, Mr. Gore seems to revel in his organized support and theatrical applause lines. At the Union Baptist Church in Des Moines, a black congregation in the eastern part of town, Mr. Gore jumped up and down and rolled his head from side to side during a rollicking refrain of "Restore it!" from the choir. At the pulpit he got cheers when he declared, "I am a Baptist," and cascades of applause as he growled out a list of African-Americans who have served in the Clinton administration. When someone shouted, "Run, Al, run!" he threw back his head with a dramatic laugh and shouted back: "I will! I will! I will!"
With less than a week to go before the caucuses, Mr. Gore remains the front-runner while Mr. Bradley hopes to make a showing respectable enough to proclaim a moral victory he can ride into New Hampshire the following week. Both states are getting a close look at two styles of Democratic presidential politics that have been around since Adlai Stevenson, the cool egghead, and Hubert Humphrey, the happy warrior. This year's version is Laconic Bill versus Pumped-Up Al. In a few days, voters will get to decide which style is more attractive -- or at least less irritating. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL OBSERVER (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); RELIGION (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



468 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Banks Post Higher 4th-Quarter Profits

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Bank of America Corporation, J. P. Morgan & Company and other United States banks posted higher fourth-quarter earnings yesterday, driven by investment-banking fees and trading.
Bank of America, the nation's largest bank, said profit rose 33 percent. Morgan, the fifth-largest American bank, said its profit had increased threefold. 
 The banks, with big securities businesses, either met or exceeded analyst expectations as merger activity and stock indexes rose to records last year. Mergers worldwide rose to a record $3.43 trillion in 1999, generating fees for banks that arranged them. Companies that trade and underwrite stocks also benefited from surging equity markets, led by computer-related shares.
Even so, exceeding profit from a year earlier was relatively easy to accomplish, since stocks and corporate and emerging-market bonds slumped in 1998 after Russia's default.
"The big banks have benefited because they're not relying on traditional banking," said Jack Ablin, managing director of Colonial Asset Management in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., which manages $180 million. "The fee side is driving the business."
Even with higher earnings, bank stocks slid yesterday after bond yields rose to their highest level in two and a half years amid concerns that the Federal Reserve may raise overnight lending rates to help cool an economy in its 106th consecutive month of expansion. Higher interest rates can reduce the value of bond holdings and erode earnings growth if the demand for borrowing wanes.
Bank of America shares dropped $2.4375, to $48.00, while Morgan shares fell $4.6875, to $123.3125. Shares of the Bank One Corporation, the country's fourth-largest bank, fell 68.75 cents, to $31.4375, after it reported that its profit fell 13 percent -- in line with expectations that had been guided lower. Wells Fargo & Company shares fell $2.8125, to $38.875, even though it reported that its fourth-quarter profit rose 26 percent.
Bank stocks, no longer the top performers they had been for most of the 1990's, are becoming increasingly volatile as they expand into brokerage, securities trading and investment banking. Morgan, which has been transforming itself from a traditional lending bank into an investment bank, saw equities revenue, including stock underwriting and brokerage commissions, more than double.
Bank of America said that profit from operations rose to $2.12 billion, or $1.23 a share, from $1.60 billion, or 91 cents, in the 1998 quarter, on higher fee income and lower costs. That met the average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Fees, mostly from investment banking, trading, mortgage banking and credit cards, fueled earnings growth for Bank of America which is based in Charlotte, N.C.
Morgan's profit gained on fees from investment banking, underwriting stock and managing clients' money. Net income climbed to $509 million, or $2.63 a share, from profit from operations of $175 million, or 86 cents, a year earlier. That beat the average estimate of $2.00 a share. Including charges a year earlier, mostly to pay for job cuts, net income rose almost sixfold from $89 million. Compared with the third quarter of 1999, net income rose 15 percent.
Over all, noninterest revenue rose 44 percent, to $1.83 billion, as investment-banking revenue rose 17 percent, to $309 million, and asset management revenue rose 27 percent, to $352 million.
Bank One, based in Chicago, said its fourth-quarter profit fell 13 percent as its credit card unit lost customers. Profit from operations fell to $904 million, or 78 cents a share, from $1.04 billion, or 88 cents, in the corresponding period last year. Bank One warned last week that its earnings would decline, forecasting profit at 78 cents a share, a penny short of the average analyst estimate at the time.
Including charges in the year-earlier period, net income rose 82 percent, to $411 million, or 36 cents, from $226 million, or 19 cents.
Wells Fargo reported that net income rose to $970 million, or 58 cents a share, from a profit before charges of $768 million, or 46 cents, in the fourth quarter of 1998. Analysts had forecast an average of 59 cents a share in a First Call/Thomson Financial survey.
Net interest income rose 3.9 percent, to $2.41 billion. Noninterest income rose 33 percent, to $2.07 billion.
Bank of New York's fourth-quarter profit rose 4.5 percent, to $327 million, or 44 cents a share. The bank had been expected to earn 43 cents a share, according to a First Call/Thomson survey. Its stock fell $1.75 a share, to $37.375.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Correction: Latin American Currencies"
A chart in Business Day yesterday tracing the weakness of four Latin American currencies against the dollar carried incorrect percentage labels; it would have been impossible for Ecuador's currency to drop more than 100 percent. From Jan. 5, 1996, through Jan. 14, 2000, the Chilean currency declined 21 percent; the Brazilian currency, 46 percent; and the Ecuadorean currency, 88 percent. The Argentine currency was unchanged. A corrected chart appears below. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANK ONE CORP; WELLS FARGO & CO; BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); COLONIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANK ONE CORP; WELLS FARGO & CO; BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



469 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: 'Harry and Louise' Return, With Health Insurance Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Harry and Louise, featured in television commercials that helped kill President Clinton's plan for universal health insurance in 1994, are back.
They still work for the insurance industry, but now, in a new television commercial, they prod Mr. Clinton, Congress and political candidates to do something about the problem of 44 million Americans without health coverage. 
 "That's huge," Harry says. "An epidemic." And he insists, "We can't leave working families and kids without insurance."
Louise replies that "someone actually has a workable plan," and she praises the plan devised by the Health Insurance Association of America. "It has tax relief for workers and small businesses, and special help for the working poor," she adds.
Charles N. Kahn III, president of the association, said that Republican candidates for president had "basically ignored" the issue of the uninsured in recent months. "Republicans are floundering on the issue, to be frank," he said.
But Mr. Kahn said the Republican nominee would have to address the issue because the Democratic candidates for president, former Senator Bill Bradley and Vice President Al Gore, had made health insurance coverage a defining issue in their campaigns.
The number of Americans without insurance continues to increase by about a million a year, even though the economy is strong and the unemployment rate is at a 30-year low.
The insurance industry's plan would make it easier for people to buy private insurance, with new government subsidies for low-wage workers and new tax credits for small employers. The proposals would amount to a large federal subsidy for the industry, but insurance executives said most of the money would be passed on to doctors, hospitals and others who provide health care. Mr. Kahn said that the industry's plan could cost $40 billion to $50 billion a year, but that Congress could choose elements of it that would cost much less.
Insurance companies see threats from both left and right. They fear that liberal Democrats will try to supplant private insurers with a government-run program. And they say that some conservative Republicans would undermine the employer-based health insurance system by creating tax incentives for people to buy health insurance as individuals, rather than through large groups organized by employers.
Mr. Kahn said the industry was spending $1 million on newspaper advertisements and television commercials, scheduled to run on CNN nationwide and on some network affiliates in the Washington area in the next 10 days.
The industry spent $17 million on the original Harry-and-Louise campaign, which featured 14 television commercials from September 1993 to August 1994. In those advertisements, Harry and Louise criticized Mr. Clinton's proposals as complex and bureaucratic.
The same actors appear in the new spots, which were produced by the same company, Goddard Claussen, now a unit of Porter Novelli, which in turn is a unit of the Omnicom Group. Harry and Louise were catapulted to national fame when Hillary Rodham Clinton attacked their sponsor in 1993.
Ben Goddard, who helped conceive the original campaign, said he married Louise Clark, who starred in those commercials, in 1997.
Mr. Kahn denied that his organization was making a radical shift. In 1993 and 1994, he said, the association supported Mr. Clinton's goal of universal insurance coverage and, at that time, even supported proposals to require employers to provide or obtain coverage for employees.
White House officials said Mr. Clinton would again propose tax credits for people providing long-term care to relatives with chronic illnesses and disabilities. But, they said, the credit would be three times as big -- $3,000 a year, instead of the $1,000 proposed last year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN OF GREATER NEW YORK INC (58%); HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; ADVERTISING; HEALTH INSURANCE; TELEVISION HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FAMILY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



470 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Security Council Stalling on Iraq

 BODY:
For the past 14 months the world has been in the dark about whether Saddam Hussein has rebuilt his stocks of biological and chemical weapons. Last month the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution aimed at getting international arms inspectors back inside Iraq. But that goal is now being thwarted by Russia, France and China, which yesterday objected to Secretary General Kofi Annan's able nominee to head the new inspection commission, Rolf Ekeus.
All three countries are permanent members of the Security Council. It will be up to Washington to make sure that Mr. Ekeus or an equally firm and credible chief inspector is approved this month. Richard Holbrooke, America's U.N. representative and council president for the month of January, has the diplomatic skills to be the point man in this effort, but he will need the energetic involvement and support of President Clinton and his secretary of state, Madeleine Albright. Appointing a qualified inspections chief would increase pressure on Iraq to readmit U.N. weapons monitors. 
 Russia and France are the chief obstacles here. Both are putting narrow commercial interests ahead of their broader international responsibilities. Instead of working to ensure that council resolutions are enforced, they are cultivating Baghdad's good will in the hope that Iraq will reward them with valuable contracts once sanctions are no longer in effect.
Mr. Ekeus served as chief arms inspector for Iraq from 1991 to 1997. He was widely regarded as both tough and diplomatic in his efforts to ensure that the disarmament provisions of the peace agreement that ended the Persian Gulf war were obeyed. That agreement requires Baghdad to supply complete information on its programs for making biological, chemical and nuclear weapons as well as longer-range missiles, and to cooperate in shutting these programs down.
Despite the best efforts of Mr. Ekeus and his successor, Richard Butler, Iraq continued to defy its international obligations, exploiting every division in the Security Council to stall, evade and obstruct. The last U.N. inspection team was withdrawn just before the United States' bombing of Iraq in December 1998. Baghdad remains intransigent, saying it has no intention of readmitting U.N. inspectors, although that is the only way it can qualify for relief from economic sanctions.
Before Mr. Ekeus's nomination, Secretary General Annan informally suggested more than 20 other candidates. All of those willing to be considered had been turned down by one or another member of the Security Council, several by countries friendly toward Iraq. As a result, the original Jan. 16 deadline for naming a commission chairman has already been missed. Further delay is extremely dangerous, giving Baghdad additional time to reconstitute its germ weapons and nerve gas programs, undetected and unmolested,
Mr. Holbrooke, working closely with Washington, must now try to reunify the Security Council behind its own Iraq resolutions. The world needs a robust system of international arms inspectors under tough and unflinching leadership to protect itself from the dangers posed by Saddam Hussein's diabolical weapons programs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (92%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE; CHINA; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (92%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: EKEUS, ROLF; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) BILL CLINTON (79%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (74%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



471 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Bush Returns to Tax Plan

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS 

 BODY:
Reflecting a continuing emphasis on tax cuts, George W. Bush began running a new 30-second spot in New Hampshire yesterday emphasizing his plan.
 
PRODUCER -- Maverick Media. 

ON THE SCREEN -- Framed by a window overlooking a gray harbor, Mr. Bush speaks directly to the camera, which is focused tightly on his face. The only graphics used in the spot flash the governor's name, in black lettering. Portrait shots of Mr. Bush alternate with campaign footage from previous commercials, showing the candidate talking to supporters outside a New Hampshire town hall meeting and working a crowd in warmer weather. At the conclusion of the spot, Mr. Bush, with his signature twinkly half-grin, asks the viewers for their votes.
 
THE SCRIPT -- Mr. Bush: "There's a debate in New Hampshire on taxes critical to America. We can cut taxes for working families and protect Social Security. But it takes leadership. Washington politicians want to keep your money in Washington. Not me. I believe taxes are too high. The people of New Hampshire understand that you deserve your money back. And cutting taxes helps keep the economy growing. On Feb. 1, you settle the debate: tax cuts or bigger government. I'd appreciate your vote."
 
ACCURACY -- New Hampshire is indeed in the midst of its own tax debate. In response to a state Supreme Court ruling, New Hampshire lawmakers approved a new statewide property tax last November, a decision that rekindled the state's historic antitax fervor and prompted vows of legal challenges. Mr. Bush's plan calls for $483 million in cuts over five years. His argument that cutting taxes "helps keep the economy growing," originates in a long-treasured tenet of Republicanism. Mr. Bush argues that it was the Reagan administration's tax cuts in the 1980's that fueled the bullish economy of the 1990's, but others give credit to, among other things, the Clinton administration's championing of deficit reduction and the boom in the information and technology sectors. Critics of the Mr. Bush's proposal add that it gives wealthy taxpayers a disproportionate share of the benefit.
 
SCORECARD -- Mr. Bush's return to the airwaves with his tax-cut message is another strategic move in the competition between the governor and his chief rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, over how best to guide the economy. (Mr. McCain has unveiled his own plan to reduce taxes by about half of what Mr. Bush proposes.) In style, the commercial relies heavily, as have so many before it, on the candidate's easygoing demeanor. It presents him as a folksy tax-slashing Washington outsider, and he comes across as less stern than Mr. McCain and much less stiff than the publisher Steve Forbes. In this sense, the commercial may be more effective as a means of reinforcing his image than in selling his tax plan. Many New Hampshire voters have been telling reporters that they are focusing less on the details of the plans than on the character of the candidates. Still, the commercial looks a lot like Mr. Bush's other spots, and some viewers may not even realize that it is a new one. PETER MARKS
 
The video of this advertisement is available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); FAMILY (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); APPROVALS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MARKS, PETER GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



472 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TAX ISSUE;
Spinning a Tax Web and Trying to Catch an Opponent

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL and FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain of Arizona signed a pledge yesterday never to tax commerce on the Internet and challenged Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to make the same promise, as the two Republican rivals fought over tax cuts two weeks before the nation's first primary, in New Hampshire.
Mr. Bush rebuffed his challenger, saying he wanted to "understand what the world looks like three to five years from now." And he put his own emphasis on the tax debate by featuring two residents in Pittsfield, N.H., whom he said would benefit more under his plan for a $483 billion, five-year tax cut than under Mr. McCain's proposal for a nearly $240 billion reduction. 
 As he campaigned yesterday, Mr. Bush talked causticly about how Mr. McCain put out a tax proposal last summer and then released a revised and more complete plan last week.
"I think it's a Washington mindset that says, I'll lay something out and then, if it takes on a little water, I'll amend it and keep amending it," Mr. Bush said in Concord, N.H. "At least the way I do it is -- I think through all the ramifications."
The day of dueling news conferences showed both men using a signature Republican issue as they fought for advantage in a tight New Hampshire race that could either propel Mr. McCain's campaign or seal Mr. Bush's status as his party's front-runner. Several polls have shown Mr. McCain leading in New Hampshire.
Mr. McCain has long called for a ban on taxes on the Internet. But he highlighted his stand yesterday by signing a poster-sized blowup copy of an "E-Freedom declaration" at a breakfast of the Greater Nashua Chamber of Commerce.
He called technology the engine of the nation's economic growth and warned against harming "this baby in its cradle."
"I challenge all the candidates, including Governor Bush to take the same pledge," Mr. McCain said, "not for a moratorium, not for two years, not for five years, but a permanent, a permanent ban on Internet taxes."
The "E-Freedom declaration," which is being promoted by Citizens for a Sound Economy, an antitax group that often helps showcase Republican antitax efforts, commits signers to a permanent ban on Internet access, sales or use taxes.
Many governors oppose a ban for fear that as more and more commerce goes online, the shift could drain state coffers of sales tax revenues. So the McCain campaign was trying to create a tricky conflict for Mr. Bush, who counts many Republican governors as some of his staunchest supporters.
Mr. Bush has said he favors a moratorium on Internet taxes, and he said yesterday that he would consider extending the moratorium to five years from three years.
"I want to make sure I understand what the world looks like three to five years from now," he said, "before I speak further."
Mr. McCain also said "nobody's predicted where this technology is going correctly for the last few years, so I'm not sure that anything can predict it correctly." But he insisted that the Internet would "churn" the economy and produce a growth in sales, not just a shift from shopping in stores to shopping online.
For a moment on his campaign bus, he seemed to hedge on his pledge, saying that if there were an economic downturn "we may have to look at anything." Then he got back on message, saying, "But I certainly don't believe the Internet is the way to go." He scoffed at the concerns of governors saying, "Mind you, all these governors that don't want to do that are all running surpluses."
Mr. Bush's aides have been combing Mr. McCain's tax plan in search of debating points, and the governor accused the senator of including a hidden increase of $40 billion in his proposal because it would end certain deductions that employers can now take on tax-exempt benefits they give their workers.
"I don't agree with leaving money in Washington, D.C.," Mr. Bush said, "and I darned sure don't agree with saying that you're going to take $40 billion in employer-related benefits and have the people pay tax on them. I think that's a mistake."
The Bush campaign repeated the themes in a commercial that starts today in New Hampshire. While the commercial does not mention Mr. McCain by name, it is Mr. Bush's first one focusing on his leading rival's tax plan.
A spokesman for the McCain campaign called the advertisement a negative attack.
Mr. McCain said yesterday that the governor had repeatedly made accusations about his tax plan "that have proven to be false." He said his plan would close loopholes that allow corporations to deduct such benefits as golf club and spa memberships and parking and would not affect health and education benefits. His aides said the deductions were worth about $4 billion.
For his part, Mr. McCain repeatedly drew applause in Nashua, N.H., when he said his smaller tax cut would help the middle class while still allowing the government to devote much of the federal surplus to shoring up Social Security, Medicare and start retiring the $5.6 trillion national debt.
"I believe from a philosophical standpoint as families and as a nation that it is important for us when we go though bad times and accumulate debts," he said, "that in good times that we as families and responsible citizens repay those debts."
Mr. Bush's swing into New Hampshire was his last before devoting his attention to the Iowa caucuses on Monday.
Mr. McCain also left the state, arriving in New York City yesterday afternoon for three fund-raisers expected to raise about $300,000. The first was at the Luncheon Club on Wall Street. The two other receptions were being held by Edgar Bronfman Jr., the chief executive of Seagram and Michael Bloomberg, the media executive.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas discussed his tax plan yesterday with workers at a factory in Pittsfield, N.H. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1043 INTERNET REGULATORY FREEDOM ACT OF 1999 (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INTERNET SALES TAX (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); SALES TAX (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TAX REFORM (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); MITCHELL, ALISON; BRUNI, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



473 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Asking U.N. to Settle Aircraft NoiseDispute With Europe

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
The United States, deadlocked on another clangorous trade dispute with Europe, will ask the United Nations to resolve a battle over aircraft noise that Washington says has already cost American companies $2 billion.
The Clinton administration said today that it would file a complaint with the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations specialized agency that sets global aviation standards. It will seek to force the Europeans to repeal a regulation banning aircraft powered by engines they deem too loud or polluting. The appeal follows a breakdown in two-party talks between the United States and the European Union. 
 The regulations, adopted by the European Parliament last year but suspended pending talks with the United States, are to be enforced beginning May 4. They would crack down on planes that use engine mufflers known as "hush kits." The Europeans say the muffled engines still pollute more than new engines.
Congress and the aviation industry have put pressure on the administration to get the European rule overturned. Companies including Federal Express, United Technologies and Northwest Airlines have complained about lost sales and a plunge in the resale value of older planes after the Europeans adopted the regulation.
The House responded last March with a resolution that would ban the Concorde, the supersonic showcase of British Airways and Air France, from landing at United States airports. That has not become law, but the Clinton administration says it shows how the engine dispute could spiral into a larger trade war unless it is resolved soon.
"We have to defend our interests now," Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said in describing why Washington decided to take the case to the aviation organization. "We all want more quiet aircraft," he said, "but we are not going to let Europe set the standards unilaterally."
Though the United States and Europe trade more than $300 billion in goods annually, they often seem more like adversaries than commercial partners. The two have feuded over steel, farm subsidies, genetically modified goods, enforcement of trade laws and a variety of other things. Last year, the Clinton administration imposed tariffs on Louis Vuitton handbags, pecorino cheese, Scottish cashmere and other luxury goods because the European Union would not change its rules for importing bananas.
Tension between the two economic blocs also took center stage at the Seattle trade meeting a month and a half ago. The inability of the United States and Europe to agree on an agenda for moving trade talks forward was one of the main reasons the talks broke down.
The aircraft dispute also resonates on both sides of the Atlantic. The United States maintains that the European rule focuses narrowly on certain aircraft engines, including many used on older Boeing 727 and DC-9 jets that are prevalent in American fleets but not widely used in Europe.
The European rule, if enforced, would also demolish the market for hush kits used to bring older aircraft into compliance with recent noise regulations, industry experts say. Pratt & Whitney, the aircraft engine subsidiary of United Technologies, is a leading manufacturer of the kits.
The Commerce Department estimates the European rule costs American companies $2 billion, including $1 billion in lost sales of kits and $1 billion in diminished market value of older aircraft, some of which might have otherwise been sold to European airlines.
European officials said the rule protects people who live near the region's congested urban airports and does not discriminate against American aircraft.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (63%); LVMH (BIT) (63%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION; FEDERAL EXPRESS CO; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (63%); BOEING CO (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION; FEDERAL EXPRESS CO; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NOISE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



474 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Investors Buy High Technology and Shun the Blue Chips

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as investors took profits out of blue-chips even as they continued to plow money into high-technology shares.
The divergent patterns in stocks occurred against a backdrop of rising interest rates, which moved to their highest level in two and a half years. For the first time since 1994, yields on the Treasury's 10-year notes briefly climbed above the yield on benchmark 30-year bonds. By late in the day, both securities were quoted at a price that yielded 6.75 percent. The yield of the 30-year bond was up from 6.69 percent Friday. The 30-year Treasury bond fell 22/32, to 92 3/32. 
 Led by Microsoft, which reported better-than-expected second-quarter profit after the close of trading, the Nasdaq composite index narrowly missed setting a record.
The index gained 66.54 points yesterday, or 1.64 percent, to 4,130.81, just below the Jan. 3 record of 4,131.15.
But investors turned their backs on most of the stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average.
The Dow, which set records Thursday and Friday, fell 162.26 points, a drop of 1.38 percent, to 11,560.72. Only 8 of the 30 stocks that make up the index gained in price. Financial service company stocks led the decline.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.01 points, or 0.68 percent, to 1,455.14.
The small-cap Russell 2000 index bucked the trend, and maintained its status as the best-performing major market index so far this year. The Russell rose 5.90 yesterday, or 1.2 percent, to 513.46.
"The underpinnings for strength in the market are still there," said Michael Clark, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
"But we are going to be in a trading range for the next six to eight weeks, due to worries about the Federal Reserve and a relentless supply of new and secondary stock issues. There is not much reason to take stocks higher until we get a new perspective on how higher rates will impact earnings this year."
Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, said yesterday that earnings would remain strong this year and that he expected high-flying technology stocks to retain their position as market leaders.
Bond market analysts said the brief inversion between 10-year and 30-year Treasury securities was largely because of technical factors. But there is a broad consensus that the Federal Reserve will be pushing up short-term interest rates very soon.
"The market has built in a half-point increase, whether it comes in one or two moves" by the Fed, said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management. "If after doing that the economy shows no signs of slowing, they will tighten again."
Members of the Fed's policy-making Open Market Committee are seen as likely to approve a rate increase when they meet Feb. 1 and 2.
For the most part, fourth-quarter earnings reports are living up to forecasts, and in many cases are exceeding expectations. Still, a number of stocks were punished yesterday after reporting strong numbers.
J. P. Morgan, a Dow component, was a case in point. The stock fell 4 11/16 to 123 5/16, even though the big financial services company's fourth-quarter results were better than Wall Street had forecast.
Citigroup, which also posted better- than-expected earnings, was also punished, but not so severely: the stock closed at 57 15/16, down 1/16.
Microsoft was one of the few Dow stocks to show life yesterday, jumping 3 1/16 to 115 5/16 on the expectation that its second-quarter results would be strong.
The software giant did better than consensus estimates, reporting second-quarter earnings of 44 cents a share, compared with an average estimate of 42 cents a share.
Still, the gains were below the 49 cent-a-share "whisper" estimate. In after-hours trading, Microsoft gave up all of its gains and more. Late yesterday the stock was quoted at 112, down 3 5/16.
And Motorola, whose shares rose sharply on Friday on expectations of strong fourth-quarter results, saw investors take much of those gains back yesterday after its numbers failed to meet the rosiest forecasts.
The stock fell 6 3/4, to 144 1/4.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table:

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.648	97.202	High Rate	5.35%	5.53%	Investment Rate	5.51%	5.78%	Low Rate	5.23%	5.44%	Median Rate	5.33%	5.52%	Total applied for	$25,268,061	$25,031,586	Accepted	$11,778,061	$9,786,344	Noncompetitive	$1,196,232	$1,095,111	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 20, 2000. The three-month bills mature on April 20, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on July 20, 2000.
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets). Another graph shows the "Treasury Yield Curve"
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



475 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
New Owner Is Playing An Old Game

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
NO news was Wood news yesterday at the Waldorf-Astoria, where Robert Wood Johnson IV announced that the Jets would remain in a holding pattern on the subjects of the former and possibly future Coach Bill Parcells (until the weekend) and a new stadium (presumably not until 2008).
But along with four AA batteries, Mr. Woody (I am not sure if he prefers his intimate tabloid designation or a more formal appellation, such as did the late Mr. Hess) made it very clear that he is hoping his $635 million toy comes equipped with each. "The Jets have never had their own stadium," Mr. Woody said, without mentioning what he might contribute to help them get one. "They have been in the Mets stadium and now this, since 1984. Every game they played for the last 39-plus years have been away games. They have never had the home-field advantage, so to speak." 
 Is that right? Then why is it that the new owner, despite longstanding connections to the Hess family, not to mention the Johnson & Johnson family fortune, said that Jets' season tickets have been "impossible" for a longtime fan such as himself to obtain?
That's because Jets games have been sold out for years, with a long waiting list of wishful thinkers. These tickets have been purchased by people presumably rooting for the Jets on the days Giants Stadium dresses up in green.
Let's make one thing clear, before the Mayor of New York begins his usual act of supplication, and starts whistling in the West Side wind, bidding taxpayer money against no one. The Jets have not been without a home-field advantage since Leon Hess moved them across the Hudson, while continuing to call them the New York Jets. What they have not had is a home-owner's advantage, the kind of profit-friendly lease arrangement that Hess never worried about because his original $250,000 investment had multiplied like an ant colony over the past three decades.
In a bidding frenzy against Charles Dolan, Mr. Woody emerged as the so-called winner last week in the Jets sweepstakes, paying hundreds of millions more than many industry analysts believed the Jets were worth. "I think," he argued yesterday, "it is worth what I paid for it."
Actually, it was not a very attractive deal, compared to more recent National Football League acquisitions in Washington and Cleveland, which came with sparkling new stadiums, and all the pricey operational amenities such as naming rights. Bill Parcells could promise to coach this team until the Guy in the Glass has a long, white beard, and the Jets would still require financing and land for a new home before they would be worth what Mr. Woody paid.
So here we go again, with another case of a very rich guy buying something terribly inflated and wasting precious little time before asserting that somewhere down the road, he will need bailing out. "Eight years from now, they will be playing somewhere else," Mr. Woody said of the Jets, a motion that was hip-hip-hoorayed by Paul Tagliabue, the N.F.L. commissioner, who rambled on about how a new facility "would energize the Jets' fans even more than they are energized."
The truth is, most Jets' fans wouldn't care if the team played on a landfill in Staten Island, as long as Parcells were still the coach.
Next season is what fans care about, and rightly so. Politicians should see the big picture. If I were negotiating for New York, I would tell Mr. Woody to take a number, and a comfortable seat in the waiting room. If we find a solution to the housing problems currently posed by the Yankees and the Mets, maybe we'll get around to you.
Fred Wilpon, the Mets' co-owner, yesterday threw out the possibility of Shea Stadium being done over for football, after a new baseball park rises next door. A fine idea, as long as the Jets offer to privately finance a healthy portion of the project.
New York shouldn't pay for what it doesn't need. Its economy seems to have survived quite nicely without a professional football team and the eight playing dates that come with it. All of Mr. Woody's Republican donation-making and name-dropping isn't going to make Christine Todd Whitman or any succeeding New Jersey governor throw up another football stadium. He has no leverage, so for what potential benefit other than trophy hunting should the city invest in a team that deserted it 16 years ago?
That was Hess, of course, but Hess's team is what Mr. Woody has bought. For $635 million, he gets the track record, the bad stadium lease and the opportunity to talk Parcells into keeping him company for another year or two. What a steal.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert W. Johnson (Ozier Muhammad)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); TICKET SALES (71%); SWEEPSTAKES (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; JOHNSON, ROBERT WOOD IV LEON HESS (81%); BILL PARCELLS (68%); ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON IV (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



476 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT;
Consultants Are Putting A New Price on Advice

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For years, McKinsey & Company, the world's most prestigious consulting firm, had a simple policy on taking an equity stake in a client in exchange for advice: it didn't do it.
Owning a piece of a company might scare that company's competitors away from McKinsey, the partners worried. Or, a high-profile blow-up at one of the companies in which it owned a stake could tarnish McKinsey's reputation. So even as Bain & Company, a rival, made tens of millions of dollars by setting up its own venture capital company in the 1980's, and even through the bull market of the 1990's, McKinsey's partners stood firm. 
 No longer.
In the last year and a half, unable to resist the lure of the Internet economy, McKinsey has taken small stakes in more than 50 clients, in exchange for lower fees. Across Europe and North America, the firm is opening eight "business accelerators," where consultants will spend up to nine months helping start companies in which the firm could own a stake.
McKinsey's about-face is the most striking example yet of the transformation of the $55 billion management consulting business, as virtually every large firm rushes to own a piece of some of its clients. Like tradition-bound investment banks that start offering online services, or individual investors who add dot-com stocks to their blue-chip portfolios, the partners at the largest consulting firms are changing to avoid being left out of the Internet.
In the process, they are opening themselves up to new risks, from losing money on bad investment bets to losing the confidence of clients. But the firms' executives are confident they can avoid those pitfalls. Besides, they say, the need both to sell their expensive services to smaller companies and to attract talent left them with little choice but to switch course.
They are doing so with gusto. Andersen Consulting, the world's largest firm, has invested in nearly 150 companies since 1996. Booz Allen & Hamilton will soon announce it has set up incubators, similar to McKinsey's accelerators, in the United States, Asia and Europe. Less-established firms are often even more aggressive.
The trend represents a profound shift for an industry that touches virtually every large company around the globe. Once thought of as outside experts who independently evaluated a business, as an accountant or lawyer might, consultants are becoming more like bankers whose fortunes are closely tied to those of their clients.
The switch "repositions us from being consultants and advisers to being business partners and really being capitalists," said Mary A. Tolan, Andersen's managing partner for growth and strategy. At Andersen, she said, the practice has spread beyond Internet work, and the firm has forfeited fees of as much as $20 million in exchange for equity.
"It is an absolutely huge change," said Jackson L. Wilson, the head of Andersen's new $1 billion venture-capital fund.
The investments are usually minority stakes, typically worth a few million dollars. The recipients range from small start-ups to newly created businesses at large existing clients. Andersen, for example, owns part of Snowdrops.com, a Swedish site selling beauty products. The Boston Consulting Group, during an assignment at Whirlpool, decided to help the company set up brandwise.com, a separate company that sells appliances over the Web.
The explosion of electronic-business consulting -- advising companies how to advertise, distribute and sell in cyberspace -- the last two years has driven the trend. At some concerns, it will soon be the single-largest moneymaker. In order to build a reputation as Internet experts, the consultants say they must work with start-ups that cannot afford their high fees -- rarely below $1 million for a project -- but can offer equity.
The investments are also crucial to restoring the consulting firms' luster among employees and recruits. At the top business schools, many graduates are shunning consulting, the most popular career path in the 1990's, for options-bearing dot-com start-ups. Even George Shaheen, the chief executive of Andersen until last year, bolted to join the Internet world, taking the top job at Webvan, a small online grocery service. "Recruiting people right now is very problematic," said Andrew Zimmerman, the head of the e-business unit at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Indeed, in an effort to mimic stock options, Booz Allen and others are studying how to offer junior consultants a share of the investments that the firms make.
Above all, the consultants hope, the moves will bolster the bottom line when some other forms of technology consulting are slowing.
"It's pretty simple: we're doing this to make money," said Mr. Wilson, the head of Andersen's new venture fund, who transferred from a job as supervisor of thousands of workers to go to Silicon Valley as the boss of 20.
The consulting firms are confident that the investment gains from their winners will more than offset lost fees. For example, Bain, which set up a venture-capital unit five years ago, says the returns on its investments since then have averaged better than 50 percent a year.
But the new strategy could create problems. First, it substitutes investments for cash revenue. "Obviously, this is very attractive so long as everybody's stock goes up," said Mr. Zimmerman of Pricewaterhouse, which has invested in Web companies that are its partners, but very few that are its clients so far. "But I'm not sure consultants are the best-equipped people to determine how successful these companies are going to be."
Most consulting firms, Mr. Zimmerman added, lack the experience that established venture-capital firms have in analyzing the quality of a start-up's management or the strengths and weaknesses of its competitors.
Still, Mr. Zimmerman said, he expects that Pricewaterhouse will begin investing more frequently in its clients the next two years.
If the trend seems unstoppable, it also raises thorny conflict-of-interest issues that will not go away, either. Accountants and lawyers, after all, are generally barred by law from being part owners of clients. For years, the big consulting firms generally followed suit. They have also built fire walls of silence around projects, forbidding consultants to talk with colleagues about them. This confidentiality enabled them to work for rival companies simultaneously. Andersen, for example, currently does work for Federal Express, the United States Postal Service and United Parcel Service.
But when the consultants own a part of a client, rivals could become more reluctant to trust those fire walls. The consulting firms, in turn, may then have to make clearer decisions about which companies they work with.
The increased acceptance of equity stakes "will put pressure on consultants to pick their spots a little bit more carefully," said James M. Citrin, a former McKinsey consultant who is now the managing director of the Internet practice at Spencer Stuart, a large executive search firm.
Acknowledging those concerns, many firms, including McKinsey, say they plan to sell the investments within a few years, to avoid becoming too closely aligned with a client. "In no case do we ever want to become a long-term stakeholder," said Andreas H. Biagosch, a director in McKinsey's Munich office.
Even so, skeptics say such close links between advisers and clients create many potential problems. In the 1980's, for example, Bain, which once refused to work for two firms in the same industry and would send dozens of consultants into a single company, suffered a major hit to its reputation when consultants who had taken on formal titles at Guinness were implicated in a British stock scandal.
The new arrangements will make similar situations more likely, said Lewis Pinault, a former partner at Coopers & Lybrand who also worked at Boston Consulting and Gemini Consulting. They will also give clients new reason to doubt the fire walls, which he said often come down after a project has ended. "The history of fire walls before this e-commerce boom is not really a healthy one," said Mr. Pinault, the author of "Consulting Demons," a critical look at the industry, which is soon to be published by HarperBusiness.
The issue is particularly sensitive at the consulting units of the large accounting firms. The Securities and Exchange Commission bars those firms from investing in companies they audit or in companies whose other part owners they audit. Scrutiny is likely to be high. This month, the S.E.C. released a report saying that more than 50 percent of Pricewaterhouse's partners had violated rules prohibiting them from holding personal investments in companies the firm audits. A federal agency is now investigating whether the problem is widespread at other firms, as well.
Consulting executives said many of the questions about conflicts of interest are not new. "Clients have always lived with us dealing with their competitors," said Scott Hartz, the top consulting executive at Pricewaterhouse.
To avoid new problems, consultants said they would choose their investments carefully and establish clear rules within their firms. "We will try never to invest in or have in our portfolio companies that compete with one another," Mr. Wilson of Andersen said. But, he acknowledged, "that's very, very hard to do; it's inevitable that there will be collisions down the road."
"We'll solve that problem when we get there," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jackson L. Wilson, heads the venture-capital fund at Andersen, which has invested in 150 companies since 1996. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Staking Out the Internet"
Here is how the Boston Consulting Group structured a recent deal.
 
FALL 1998: Boston Consulting advises Whirpool to create brandwise.com a home-appliances Web site for consumers.
JANUARY 1999: The Hearst Corporation, which owns Good Housekeeping, becomes brandwise's biggest single investor and Boston Consulting takes a stake that it says is between 10 percent and 33 percent. A 14-member Boston Consulting team starts work on the Web site at the firm's Manhattan office.
JANUARY-AUGUST 1999: The team members hire a chief executive, set up a brandwise office in Manhatttan's Silicon Alley and, one by one, leave the project. Brandwise uses part of Boston Consulting's investment to pay its consulting fees.
THE FUTURE: Boston Consulting hopes to sell its stake in brandwise, which now has 80 employees, within four years.
(Source: Boston Consulting Group)(pg. C10)
 
Graphs: "Losing Allure"
At Harvard Business School, the top consulting firms' favorite hunting ground, more M.B.A.'s now join technology or venture-capital companies than become consultants. The graph compares consulting, high technology, investment banking, and venture capital since 1995. (Source: Harvard Business School)
 
"Manna From The Net"
Pricewaterhouse-Coopers, the consulting and accounting firm, expects roughly half its consulting revenue to come from e-commerce soon. (Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (84%); BAH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ANDERSON CONSULTING; BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON; MCKINSEY & CO MCKINSEY & CO INC (96%); ACCENTURE PLC (84%); BAIN & CO (71%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSON CONSULTING; BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON; MCKINSEY & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONSULTANTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); TRENDS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



477 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Coca-Cola Sets Out to Be a Friendlier, More Adaptable Company

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
IN what amounts to a rare admission of failure, the Coca-Cola Company is trying to make itself into a friendlier company that will adapt more to local markets around the world.
The new strategy, emerging from Coca-Cola's recent announcements and from conversations with people close to the company, involves a string of personnel moves and related actions. They are intended to improve the company's standing on Wall Street and repair its reputation with consumers, regulators, bottlers and others with whom its relationships have been damaged over the last two years. 
 Yesterday, the company said that Jack L. Stahl, who has led Coke's business in North America, will become second in command to Douglas N. Daft, who was named chief executive just last month. The widely expected announcement and hints of a bigger shift at the soft drink giant pushed the stock up $3.938 a share, to $65, well above its October low of less than $48.
The changes -- some as obvious as relocating executives outside of Atlanta -- will affect the company's marketing strategies, both in the kinds of products it sells and the way it sells them.
Other changes seem intended to improve relations between Coke and its bottlers, relations that have been strained recently by rapid increases in the cost of concentrate in the United States and demands for capital investment from bottlers abroad that were mandated by Coke executives in Atlanta. The stock price of Coca-Cola Enterprises, the largest Coke bottler, has lost 40 percent of its value in the last year because of depressed profits in the bottling system.
"You're starting to see new marching orders, which are coming from the board and from Daft and Stahl," said Bill Pecoriello, a beverage stocks analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, which does not underwrite stock offerings.
Mr. Pecoriello issued a lengthy report yesterday in which he said Coca-Cola was going through "the biggest 'sea change' with regard to all aspects of its business in nearly 20 years." The company will trim its work force of 29,000 by at least 2,000 and scale back its goals for case sales to more realistic levels, he said after interviewing Coke bottlers and others in the industry.
A Coca-Cola company spokesman said yesterday that "management has been looking at the business for some time," but declined to confirm the details of Mr. Pecoriello's report.
After a board meeting in Atlanta yesterday, the company said Mr. Stahl, 46, would become president and chief operating officer in April when Mr. Daft officially took over. M. Douglas Ivester, Coke's departing chairman and chief executive, steadfastly insisted during his short tenure that he did not need a second in command.
"You are going to see a more traditional C.E.O.-C.O.O. relationship with a management team approach," said James B. Williams, a Coke director. "It's going to be an effective and a different approach." Asked whether power had been too concentrated under Mr. Ivester, he said, "Each C.E.O. has to establish his own management style."
Mr. Daft moved quickly to retain Carl H. Ware, the company's highest- ranking black executive, who had resigned in November after a management shuffle that pushed him aside. Mr. Ware's departure concerned some in Atlanta's civil rights community, particularly since Coke is the subject of a racial discrimination lawsuit filed by several black employees. Earlier this month, Mr. Ware was named executive vice president in charge of corporate affairs and government relations.
A recurring theme since Mr. Daft's appointment has been decentralization, first signaled by the announcement earlier this month that executives in charge of Asian and European operations would live not in Atlanta, but in their territories. Decentralization will also be key in marketing, where local tastes and local brands are expected to play a larger role than they have in the past. Coke's expansion into overseas markets has for years led with Coca-Cola, regardless of local preferences.
Japan has been the notable exception to that strategy; Coke is outsold there by Coca-Cola's canned coffee and tea products, which are among some 200 company brands. Mr. Daft, who was group president for Asia until his promotion, earlier this month named the No. 2 executive in Japan, Stephen C. Jones, as Coke's chief marketing officer.
Another reason for the shift is that Coke finds itself increasingly challenged by cheaper local brands in markets from Eastern Europe to Brazil and parts of Asia. Instead of its longtime rival Pepsi-Cola, Coke's chief competitor has turned out to be lower-priced soft drinks, if not water or juice.
"There is no doubt that Doug Daft is moving lightning quick to get the Coca-Cola Company heading in the right direction again," said Michael Branca, a beverage stocks analyst with Lehman Brothers, "putting his best players in positions to make a difference, in areas where Coke has struggled in the past."
Under Mr. Ivester, the company's global ambitions frequently angered local officials. Plans to expand by acquiring the Cadbury Schweppes brands were partly stymied by objections from regulators as far-flung as Mexico, Australia and Europe.
Mr. Ivester is credited with pushing the consolidation of Coke's bottlers in the United States and abroad -- something that led to more efficiencies and initially impressed investors. But analysts have criticized the company recently for exhorting bottlers to invest heavily in manufacturing plants and other equipment, based on sales targets that became increasingly unattainable as economies around the world sputtered. "It's critical to see the bottlers improve their returns on invested capital," said Andrew J. Conway, a Morgan Stanley analyst.
At a conference for investors sponsored by Morgan Stanley late last year, the chairman and chief executive of a large European bottler gave a presentation that many in the audience considered the most abject that they had heard in years from anyone in the relentlessly optimistic Coke system. The executive, Neville Isdell, put up what he called "our Kleenex tissue slide," a list of obstacles like the war in Kosovo that the bottler, Coca-Cola Beverages, had run into since it went public in July 1998.
But another problem Mr. Isdell mentioned was an enormous $1.5 billion in capital spending, which was "too far ahead of the market," he conceded. Among those expenses were vending machines, nearly twice as many by last year as the company had in 1997. The bottler posted a loss in the first half of last year.
One analyst said such problems would continue unless Coke merged its operations with those of its bottlers. "Coke's problems are related to the bottling system, which subsidized Coke's earnings and are now being subsidized by Coke," said Albert Meyer, an analyst at David Tice & Company and a steady critic of Coke's accounting practices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack L. Stahl, who has headed Coca-Cola's business in North America, will become second in command at the company.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); CCE (PAR) (54%); CCE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (65%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (96%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (65%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (58%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (89%); BEVERAGE MFG (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (66%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; STAHL, JACK L; DAFT, DOUGLAS N DOUGLAS N DAFT (84%); JACK L STAHL (57%); BILL PECORIELLO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



478 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: It's Very Late, the Phone Is Ringing, Must Be That Lonely President Again

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
When Bill Clinton attends a social event at the White House these days, more often than not it is a farewell party, as the familiar faces in the West Wing leap for jobs in the private sector while the leaping is still good.
After-hours, the president dials up aides gone by. The conversations can stretch into the early hours of the morning, the recipients of his calls say, wandering from assessments of a presidential campaign he is not part of to accounts of his peacemaker duties in the Middle East to musings about how a retiree in his 50's might usefully fill his days after Jan. 20, 2001. 
 "When you hear that lonely voice," says one old friend of the president, "you know it's time to sit up and turn on the light, because this is going to take a while."
As Mr. Clinton heads into the eighth and final year of his presidency, he is a blur of motion -- but he is also very alone.
His only child is away at college. His wife has moved out to start a career of her own. His vice president is on the road seeking to become his successor. Left behind, at least, is Buddy the labrador, who now spends all night with the president when Hillary Rodham Clinton is away -- modern-day testimony to Harry S. Truman's observation a half-century ago that the only true friend in Washington is a dog.
Sure, Mr. Clinton still has the coterie of ushers, attendants, aides and agents hovering around him during the workday. But he is an empty-nester now, with fewer longtime friends within daily reach than at any time in his presidency.
Some old hands, like Samuel R. Berger, the president's national security adviser, and Bruce Lindsey, the deputy White House counsel, are still a daily presence.
That change creates a different atmosphere. Mr. Clinton "used to look out the window on a nice day and say, 'Erskine, let's play golf,' " one senior adviser said of the president's close relationship to Erskine B. Bowles, his former chief of staff. "There's fewer people around he can do that with."
Now when Mr. Clinton is out to dinner, it often runs late, very late, which is no surprise given the empty rooms awaiting him in the White House residence.
In Shepherdstown, W. Va., on Jan. 9 night, Mr. Clinton's dinner with Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, and Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara, went on so long that one American diplomat feared the participants would doze off. The president's helicopter took off for the return trip to the White House a little before 1 a.m.
Mr. Clinton concedes that his wife's absence feeds his late-night tendencies to stay up reading and gabbing. "Hillary's a good anchor for me," he said. "When I work too late she always makes sure I get the requisite amount of sleep."
Mr. Clinton sounds philosophical about his new in-between existence.
In an interview aboard his helicopter while touring the Grand Canyon recently, he said his wife's decision to move out and set up house in Chappaqua, N.Y., where he spent three nights in the last two weeks, would help them with the difficult transition from the presidency to everyday life.
"Psychologically, it gives us a year to make the adjustment to moving out," he said. "It's kind of good for us that we're making a gradual transition." But he added quickly, "We're still getting into it."
More specifically, a Clinton family friend said of the Chappaqua house, "It's Hillary's place. He doesn't have a lot of emotion invested in it."
In public, the president talks enthusiastically about the Chappaqua house, in a wealthy suburban neighborhood far from the hustle he is used to in Washington.
But friends still have a hard time imagining him kicking around the place -- or using that gleaming lawn tractor that David Letterman gave Mrs. Clinton on his late-night television program recently.
The other day, addressing reporters outside the Chappaqua house, Mr. Clinton talked about what he would do when he got "home" to Washington -- a sign that no one is quite sure where home is these days.
"I think he needs the breather," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Manhattan Democrat who first urged Mrs. Clinton to run for the Senate. "He needs a little space. He has a legacy to decide. He has work to do. He's in a position where the first lady and the vice president may need to distance themselves from him. He's stuck with himself."
Mr. Clinton says he has had little time recently to dwell on his new lot in life, with preparations for the 2001 budget and the State of the Union Message occupying him and the delicate Middle East peace talks requiring constant attention.
John D. Podesta, the president's chief of staff, said Mr. Clinton was not walking around the White House like Hamlet, brooding, conflicted, depressed.
"I don't think he's counting backwards," Mr. Podesta said. "He's looking at each day and seeing if he can accomplish something. He'll probably get to Jan. 20, 2001, and say, 'What three things can I get done today before I get in the car and go up to the Capitol.' "
Mr. Clinton talks a great deal about how little time he has left, and how that both weighs on him and spurs him into motion. The first 7 years have flown by, he said, and 12 months is not a lot of time.
"This year will pass in a flash," he remarked recently.
Mr. Clinton rarely gives a speech these days without mentioning the looming end of his presidency. He follows his recitation of rosy economic statistics with a plea that much work will remain when he is gone.
"The question is, what are we going to do now?" he asked on Jan. 12 during an event in Washington sponsored by the Democratic Leadership Council. "What will you do as citizens, when I am no longer here, and I'm just a citizen like you?"
It is a question that almost seems to haunt Mr. Clinton, who will be the youngest ex-president since Theodore Roosevelt. But he sometimes suggests that he is not feeling young.
On his trip to the Grand Canyon, he complained about his failing eyesight while noting that he could not read the letters on some picket signs along his motorcade route. A little while later, he put his hand to his ear and said he could not hear a question from a reporter because his hearing was going, too. At the start of his second term, he was fitted with small hearing aids in both ears.
At one recent fund-raiser, an old friend was introducing him and joked that Mr. Clinton had aged appreciably in the last seven years. "I keep a photograph in my office of me taken with the president, early on in his first term, in the Oval Office," said Debbie Branson, a Dallas lawyer who knows Mr. Clinton from Arkansas. "Every time I look at that picture I notice how young you looked."
Mr. Clinton was laughing but surely agreeing when Ms. Branson added, "The presidency causes a lot of wear and tear."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "When you hear that lonely voice," one old friend of President Clinton says, "you know it's time to sit up and turn on the light, because this is going to take a while." Mr. Clinton will leave office on Jan. 20, 2001. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, CHELSEA BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



479 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Russians Intensify Attack To Seize Heart of Grozny
Russian soldiers battled their way toward the center of Grozny as the struggle for Chechnya's capital entered an even fiercer phase. A1 

Moscow Political Maneuvers
The political party most closely associated with Acting President Vladimir V. Putin unexpectedly joined forces with the Communists to reelect the Communist speaker of the Parliament's lower house. A3
 
Link to Warlord's Death Denied
A senior Yugoslav official said the government of President Slobodan Milosevic had no role in the killing of the notorious paramilitary leader Zeljko Raznatovic, known as Arkan, which the official said was the work of Montenegrin gangsters. A3
 
Kohl Resigns from Party Post
Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl resigned as honorary chairman of Germany's Christian Democrats after its leadership accused him of violating his duties by refusing to identify people who had secretly given him money. He retains his seat in the lower house of Parliament, which shields him from prosecution. A1
 
U.N. Arms Nominee Opposed
France and China joined Russia in opposing Secretary General Kofi Annan's nomination of Rolf Ekeus, a Swedish disarmament expert, as chief arms inspector for Iraq. The three nations want the nomination process reopened so someone more acceptable to Iraq can be found. A10
 
Testimony on Angolan Attack
The Security Council saw taped testimony by former Angolan rebels who said their leader, Jonas Savimbi, approved the downing of two United Nations planes a year ago. A10
 
Sect's Leader No More
Aum Shinrikyo, the religious group responsible for a deadly nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995, said for the first time that its founder, Shoko Asahara, had probably been involved in the attack and would no longer serve as the group's leader. He is on trial in the attack that killed 12 people and injured 5,000. A6
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A12-19
 
Antimissile Test Fails; Setback for National Shield
A missile fired from a California air base failed to hit a mock warhead fired from thousands of miles away in the Pacific, the Pentagon said. It was considered a critical test, since President Clinton is scheduled to decide this summer whether to proceed with full deployment of a multibillion-dollar system to shield the nation from limited attacks. A1
 
Gun Makers Gather Forces
The trade organization that represents gun makers, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, is collecting millions of dollars from its members to fight lawsuits against gun makers and intends to support candidates and lobby at all levels of government as part of an effort to fight greater gun restrictions. A1
 
H.I.V. Inmate Segregation
The Supreme Court left intact a lower court's ruling permitting Alabama prisons to segregate hundreds of H.I.V.-positive inmates and keep them from educational programs and even from religious services where they might mix with other prisoners. The justices' letting the lower-court ruling stand does not set a legal precedent. A19
 
The Return of Harry and Louise
The fictitious couple featured in insurance industry ads that helped kill President Clinton's 1994 plan for universal health insurance have been resurrected. Now they are prodding the president, Congress and candidates to do something about Americans without health coverage. A12
 
Microbe Endangers Citrus Crop
Citrus canker, an incurable plant disease that began showing up in South Florida backyards five years ago, has been migrating into commercial groves, threatening the state's $8.5 billion citrus fruit industry. A12
 
EDUCATION B9
 
Yale's Investment in Science
Yale is to announce tomorrow that it will invest $500 million in new science and engineering facilities. B1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Algerian Seized by Canada Is Indicted in U.S. Bomb Plot
An Algerian arrested in Canada last week, Mokhtar Haouari, was a leader in a group of terrorists suspected of planning a bomb attack, Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said. An indictment linked him to an Algerian accused of smuggling bomb parts into the United States near Seattle and to a Brooklyn man identified as an accomplice of the smuggler. A1
 
Mayor Comes to McCain's Aid
Mayor Giuliani, who supports Gov. George W. Bush for president, rebuked the Republican State Committee for trying to knock Senator John McCain off the primary ballot in several Congressional districts, risking a new rift with party leaders he has been courting for a Senate bid. A1
 
Finding Profit in a Net Stock
Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, put $5,000 in a privately held Internet company last year -- which has grown to $225,000 -- although he promised five years ago to avoid investments not available to the general public, aides acknowledged. But they asserted that the deal was legal and ethical and that elected officials should be able to profit from the surge in stocks. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Broadway on TV
Two companies are planning television broadcasts of Broadway shows, with one offering performances on a pay-per-view basis and the other producing shows that would be featured as part of a subscription package. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
$17 Million a Season
Shortstop Derek Jeter is close to completing a seven-year, $118.5 million deal with the Yankees that would be the richest in baseball history. A1
 
Jets to Seek New Home
The Jets' new owner, Robert Wood Johnson IV, said the team would leave the Meadowlands by 2008. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
Effects of the Boom on Families
The Fed said the strong economy had pushed more households into the middle class and that the stock market had showered benefits on all but those with the lowest incomes. C1
 
Microsoft's Rebuttal
Microsoft delivered the legal arguments that it hopes will stave off an adverse antitrust ruling, taking issue with a judge's conclusions about the case and restating many arguments that he has already rejected. C1
 
Microsoft's second-quarter earnings exceeded Wall Street analyst expectations, but after-hours traders were displeased that it had missed more optimistic "whisper numbers." C6
 
Citigroup Buys in London
Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, said it would acquire the last independent investment bank in London from Schroders for about $2.21 billion. C1
 
New No. 2 at Coke
Jack L. Stahl, who has led Coke's business in North America, was named second in command to the chief executive, Douglas N. Daft. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C26-27
 
DINING F1-10
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Security Council stalling on Iraq; a tainted New York primary; Steven R. Weisman on the Democratic campaign in Iowa.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E9
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SHOOTING SPORTS (51%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); RELIGION (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (67%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (67%); GUN CONTROL (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



480 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: A Top Official Has Plans to Leave G.M.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Roy S. Roberts, General Motors' group vice president for North American vehicle sales, service and marketing, announced today that he would soon retire, as the company struggles to reverse a decline in its share of the United States vehicle market.
Mr. Roberts, who has held his current job for 15 months, set April 1 for his retirement, when he will be 61 years old. G.M. said that his replacement, William J. Lovejoy, currently vice president for auto repair parts and accessories, would be promoted on Feb. 1 to share Mr. Roberts' job during a two-month transition. 
 Mr. Lovejoy and Mr. Roberts will represent G.M. this weekend at the convention of the National Automobile Dealers Association in Orlando, Fla. G.M. is trying to mend fences with dealers, many of whom are furious about the company's introduction of a problem-ridden computer system for ordering cars early last year.
Dealers are also upset about the company's short-lived plan last autumn to buy up to 10 percent of its dealers and operate them itself, in competition with the rest of its dealers.
Mr. Roberts presided over these moves, but many of the decisions were made by senior executives before he took his current job in October 1998. His job was created by combining five G.M. marketing divisions.
At a news conference today at the Automotive News World Congress, an annual industry event, Mr. Roberts said the decision to leave had been voluntary. He said that he planned to run a business, but declined to give details.
Mr. Roberts has been the most powerful black executive in the global auto industry. With his departure, the only black manager in G.M.'s top five levels is Roderick D. Gillum, who is the vice president for public policy and diversity.
Mr. Roberts defended G.M.'s record on encouraging diversity in its executive ranks, saying the company was hiring more nonwhite managers below the vice president level.
The Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, a group founded and led by the Rev. Jesse Jackson that seeks to promote economic and political opportunity for all races, has been critical in recent years of the lack of racial diversity on Wall Street and at auto companies.
Glenda Gill, the deputy director of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition's Detroit office, said that while the group was "saddened and dismayed" by Mr. Roberts' decision to retire, the group was "hopeful that the positive relationship established with General Motors will continue uninterrupted, especially as it relates to diversity."
G.M.'s market share has been falling since the 1960's, confounding a succession of G.M. executives. The company had 31.29 percent of the United States market in 1997, 29.4 percent in 1998 and 29.45 percent in 1999.
Company executives, including Mr. Roberts, had predicted early last year that the market share would rise to at least 30 percent and possibly 32 percent in 1999 because 1998 results had been depressed by an eight-week strike that crippled production across North America.
Mr. Roberts said today that he was proud of work he had done in improving G.M.'s profitability and expected the company to do better this year as it produces new full-size cars, the Chevrolet Monte Carlo and Pontiac Bonneville, and full-size sport utility vehicles, the Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and the GMC Yukon.
In an interview last week at the North American International Auto Show here, Mr. Roberts acknowledged that G.M. had market share problems but said that changing this would require work by many G.M. divisions, not just his marketing staff. "I'll take my responsibility and there are other people that will take theirs also, I'm convinced of that," he said.
Mr. Lovejoy, 59, has won strong reviews from dealers for reducing the time it takes to fill orders for parts. In a conference call this afternoon, Mr. Lovejoy said he had spent 29 years as a manager at G.M.'s car loans and leasing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, rising to president in March 1990. He was transferred to the after-market auto parts job in 1992 after John M. McNamara, a Long Island car dealer, engaged in a series of complicated financial transactions with the unit that resulted in more than $400 million in losses for the division. Mr. Lovejoy was cleared by G.M. of any misconduct, but his transfer was viewed as a demotion at the time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roy S. Roberts, a G.M. group vice president, will retire on April 1. (Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AUTOMOBILES; SALES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; ROBERTS, ROY; LOVEJOY, WILLIAM J JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



481 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filings Fell in '99, Study Notes

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Personal bankruptcy filings fell 8 percent last year, according to a University of Maryland study that is being hailed by critics of Congressional efforts to toughen bankruptcy laws.
The number of individuals seeking bankruptcy protection in United States courts fell by about 112,000 in 1999, to 1.3 million, from a record 1.4 million in 1998, according to the economics professor, Lawrence M. Ausubel, who supervised the study. 
 The study comes as the Senate prepares to resume debate next week on an overhaul of bankruptcy laws to force more debtors to repay some of what they owe. Proponents have pointed to the record-high filings in 1998 as proof that change is needed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (96%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (93%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE M AUSUBEL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



482 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Family Gains From Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
In the most detailed look so far at how families have fared during the nation's long run of prosperity, the Federal Reserve said today that the strong economy pushed more households into higher income brackets, and that the strong stock market showered benefits on all but those with the lowest incomes.
The report, based on an in-depth survey of the finances of more than 4,000 households in 1998 and comparisons with similar surveys in 1989, 1992 and 1995, also found a sharp rise in the percentage of families owning stocks directly or through retirement plans. 
 And while generally finding most households to be in slightly better financial shape relative to 1995, the report, the Fed's survey of consumer finances, flashed some warning signs about the accumulation of debt. The proportion of families that had missed a debt payment by two months or more, for example, rose to 8.1 percent in 1998 from 7.1 percent in 1995.
"While income continued a moderate upward trend, net worth grew strongly, and the increase in net worth was broadly shared by different demographic groups," the report said.
It did not draw any explicit conclusions about the degree to which the gap between rich and poor was growing. But it was relatively clear in suggesting that education levels played a crucial role in determining economic success.
And the report showed that while white families tended to enjoy strong growth in net worth -- assets like stocks and equity in a home minus liabilities like mortgage and credit card debt -- nonwhite and Hispanic families were far less likely to have seen big jumps in their wealth from 1995 to 1998.
In many ways, the report simply confirmed what other statistics and common sense have previously suggested: that the combination of a long economic expansion and a bull market on Wall Street left most people making a little more money and feeling somewhat wealthier.
The survey found that the net worth of the median household -- that is, the level at which half the families were above and half below -- was $71,600 in 1998, up 17.6 percent from 1995, when the figure was $60,900, adjusted for inflation. The Fed's data suggested that much of the gain in net worth flowed to the very wealthiest families. But it also showed substantial gains among households with incomes starting at $25,000.
Median family pretax income rose to $33,400 in 1998, up 2.1 percent from $32,700 in 1995, the Fed said. It was the first time during the 1990's that median income, adjusted for inflation, had surpassed the level of 1989, when it was $32,800.
The gains appeared to be concentrated on wealthy families, with the income figures for nearly all groups flat or down slightly from 1995 to 1998. Self-employed people also had large income gains in the period.
But the data also suggested that more households were slowly pulling themselves out of lower-income groups and more firmly into higher- income brackets.
The proportion of families making less than $10,000 a year declined to 12.6 percent of all families in 1998, from 15.1 percent in 1995. Families making from $10,000 to $24,999 declined to 24.8 percent of the population, from 25.4 percent; families making $25,000 to $49,999 fell to 28.8 percent, from 31 percent.
Families making $50,000 to $99,999 rose to 25.2 percent of the total, from 21 percent in 1995, while those in the $100,000-and-above bracket rose to 8.6 percent, from 7.4 percent.
While the numbers were positive in the aggregate, they struck some analysts as showing remarkably little improvement given the strength and duration of the expansion.
"We have lived through a stock market such as none of us have ever seen and few of us ever dreamed of," said Henry J. Aaron, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a liberal-leaning research organization. "Unemployment has fallen to the lowest levels in more than three decades. Yet these global measures of well-being have moved little. Income is flat. Asset holdings are up a few percent."
Still, Mr. Aaron said, "it is very easy to see the effects of the booming stock market in assets holdings -- in the increase in asset holdings, in the increase in equity holdings, in the increase in the value of retirement accounts."
The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, has long been concerned about the way in which paper and realized gains from the stock market are fueling consumer spending and the overall growth of demand in the economy.
He warned in a speech last week that the superheated market might be pushing the economy to grow faster than can be sustained over the long run without igniting inflation, and he strongly hinted that the Fed would raise interest rates next month in an effort to cool both the markets and the economy.
The Fed's report today showed that the percentage of families owning stocks directly or indirectly through mutual funds and 401(k) programs rose to 48.8 percent in 1998, from 40.4 percent in 1995 and 31.6 percent in 1989. The median value of those stockholdings rose to $25,000 in 1998, from $15,400 in 1995 and $10,800 in 1989.
Median net worth among households with incomes of less than $10,000 fell to $3,600 in 1998, from $4,800 in 1995, the report said, while net worth among those making $10,000 to $25,000 fell from $31,000 to $24,800, adjusted for inflation.
But the median net worth of families earning $25,000 to $50,000 rose to $60,300 in 1998, from $56,700 in 1995. Those with incomes between $50,000 and $100,000 had net worth of $152,000, up from $126,600, during the period.
The median household with an income of $100,000 or more had virtually no change in wealth. But that statistic hid a large gain among the wealthiest of households. Looking at average net worth for the $100,000-plus income group more accurately captures the wealth increase among the super-rich than median statistics, which are typically used to identify the position of someone right in the middle of the group.
Average, or mean, net worth in the $100,000-plus income group jumped to more than $1.7 million in 1998 from $1.4 million in 1995, a rise of 22 percent.
The study found that families are taking on more debt, but that debt did not rise as quickly as assets. Still, the report found some troubling signs that households could get into trouble should the economy slow.
Not only has the proportion of people making late debt payments been rising, so has the proportion of people whose debt payments exceed 40 percent of their annual income, a rough rule of thumb for the level at which debt can endanger financial health. In 1998, 12.7 percent of families had debt-to-income ratios of more than 40 percent, up from 10.5 percent in 1995.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Snapshot of Family Finances"
The Federal Reserve's latest survey of consumer finances found that by many measures, families are benefiting from the booming economy. The graphs show the percentage of families in each income group since 1989. (Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C6)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; STOCKS AND BONDS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



483 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: At Yale, a $500 Million Plan Reflects a New Age of Science

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Concerned that it will not be able to stay in the top academic ranks without a greater presence in science, Yale University plans to announce tomorrow that it will invest at least $500 million in new science and engineering facilities, including the construction of five new buildings and the renovation of several old ones.
Universities everywhere are spending heavily on genomics centers, computer laboratories and other facilities to foster cutting-edge scientific fields, but Yale's $500 million commitment appears to be one of the largest one-time building plans ever. 
 Yale's decision to try to become more of a science and technology powerhouse illustrates the growing importance that universities are placing on scientific research. It also represents a serious bid to reposition Yale's reputation; it is better known for its prominence in the humanities, social sciences and arts, and for its professional schools, than for its work in the sciences.
"Yale is committed to remain on everyone's short list of the best universities in the world," said Richard C. Levin, Yale's president, an economist who studies the role of technological innovation. "In the 21st century, you must excel in science and engineering to maintain that position."
Modern space for scientific research is crucial, Mr. Levin said, in attracting top professors and students. "We find ourselves in stiffer competition in the sciences than in other fields," he said.
E. William Colglazier, executive officer of the National Academy of Sciences, said many universities were recognizing the need to spend more money on science. "I think this is the wave of the future, and we'll see more of these announcements," he said.
"This is a reflection of the fact that science and technology are reshaping the world, and the universities need to make these types of investments to remain in the forefront," he added. "Unfortunately it's expensive, but universities like Yale have decided they have to make this kind of investment."
Aided by its medical school, Yale is stronger scientifically than its reputation might suggest, Mr. Levin contends. He said it was among the top four universities in grants from the National Institutes of Health and among the top four in scientific articles most cited by others. Most of its science and engineering departments are ranked among the top 12 nationally, he said, and two -- physiology and pharmacology -- are No. 1 in graduate department rankings.
Sixty-three Yale professors are members of the National Academy of Sciences, placing it fifth after Harvard (158), the University of California at Berkeley (115), Stanford (111) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (100). But the Yale faculty includes only one Nobel laureate in the sciences: Sidney Altman, who won the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1989 for research on RNA.
About a quarter of Yale's 5,200 undergraduates are in science or engineering, up from about 17 percent a decade ago, and about a third of its 1,800 graduate students are in those fields.
The university has begun to try to upgrade its science offerings in recent years. Mr. Levin announced his intention to strengthen engineering when he became president in 1993, and he brought in Dr. D. Allan Bromley, a nuclear physicist and former science adviser to President George Bush, as a dean.
The new construction plan grew out of a report last fall on Yale's needs for expansion and renovation of its physical plant. Yale has erected only two new science buildings in the last 30 years, one connected to the medical school and the other for a structural biology center. The new buildings will expand the university's science and engineering space by about 25 percent.
Of the $500 million investment, about 40 percent will go for new buildings, and the rest will be used to refurbish existing space. The money will come on top of existing spending in science and engineering.
Many other colleges and universities, including Haverford, Hofstra, Middlebury, Princeton, Williams and Wooster, have announced new science centers in recent years, and some, like Harvard, are undertaking more than one.
Harvard, for example, has said it plans to spend about $200 million over the next five years on five new and refurbished science centers, including one for physical sciences and one for life sciences. It recently opened a new computer sciences building and is nearly finished with a new chemistry laboratory.
Although the Yale plan covers only capital spending, Mr. Levin said it would probably result in more hiring and spending in these disciplines, too. He said the university had already committed to adding four positions in engineering and six in the biological sciences, which it is filling now.
The new buildings, which Yale hopes to complete in six to eight years, will include new facilities for chemical, biological, and environmental research as well as for engineering and for the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. Yale also plans to build two new lecture halls for introductory science courses.
A $24 million gift from John Malone, chairman of Liberty Media and a 1963 graduate of Yale's engineering program, will help finance the new engineering building, and Yale hopes to attract other private gifts. In the meantime, it will borrow to pay for construction.
Connecticut officials are cheering Yale's new building plan. Gov. John G. Rowland and his senior economic adviser, Arthur Diedrick, will join Yale officials tomorrow morning for the formal announcement.
"It's a great thing for Connecticut," Mr. Diedrick said yesterday, adding that research at the university had led to the creation of 35 new companies over the last decade and that an expanding research base could lead to even more.
"This will just further education in Connecticut in the sciences and engineering," Mr. Diedrick said, "which will be greatly needed, as economic development focuses more on science and technology fields." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (60%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); GENOMICS (76%); CHEMISTRY (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); PHARMACOLOGY (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; LEVIN, RICHARD C ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



484 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Widest Income Gap Is Found in New York

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The gap between rich and poor widened more in New York than in any other state between the late 1970's and the late 1990's, a new study has found, with the poorest families losing $2,900 in real income while those at the top gained nearly $108,000 per family.
To many economists, the state-by-state analysis of a well-documented national trend provides new reason for alarm about the erosion of the middle class in America. But others say the growing gap is nothing to worry about, as long as most New Yorkers are better off than they were five years ago. 
 The study, based on United States Census data, was one of two released this week which found that increasing income disparity and declining incomes for both poor and middle-income families were particularly severe in New York.
"Clearly, some level of income inequality is inevitable and even desirable in a growing society," said Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research institute in Washington that jointly released one of the studies yesterday with the Economic Policy Institute. "But the magnitude of the income disparities in the United States today and the degree to which disparity is increasing seems well beyond anything that is economically or socially desirable."
But Martin Feldstein, a conservative economist who heads the National Bureau of Economic Research, contends that growing inequality alone is no cause for concern, as long as the pie as a whole is growing.
"What public policy should be concerned about is poverty, not inequality," he said. "If the total is getting bigger and it's growing at the top, that isn't a bad thing," he said, so long as it does not come at the expense of those at the bottom.
What particularly disturbed other economists, however, is that in 18 states the poor got poorer even as the rich grew richer, with New York leading the list. It was one of four states, along with Arizona, New Mexico and Wyoming, where the poorest fifth of families showed a decline in income of more than 20 percent, adjusted for inflation, between the late 1970's and the late 1990's.
The findings, which divided income into five categories, also found that New York families in the middle level of the five groups fell behind between the late 1980's and the late 1990's, losing $3,470 during a decade when the richest of the five groups gained $19,680.
"There's the notion of the winner-take-all society, and New York may exemplify that," Lynn Karoly, a senior economist for the Rand Corporation, a nonpartisan research group based in Santa Monica, Calif., said in a telephone interview. "There are some real winners, whether you're talking about professional sports, high finance or corporate management. The notion is there are few who make it to the top, and when they get there, they're really at the top."
The biggest losers are children, according to a study by the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan, nonprofit group in Washington that tracks the impact of defederalization of social programs in 13 states. The Urban Institute study found that states with severe income inequality, including New York, tended to have higher rates of child poverty.
Children are twice as likely as adults to be poor, the study's authors, Gregory Acs and Megan Gallagher, wrote. And while children in single-parent families and poor states are more likely to be poor, most of the income gap among children is not because of family type or state of residence, the Urban Institute study found, but because of differences in the income of the adults the children live with.
Growing disparity between wages is the biggest factor in the income gap measured by the joint study on income, which did not include capital gains at the top or earned income tax credits at the bottom, Mr. Greenstein said.
The decline in manufacturing, weaker unions, globalization and immigration are among the factors that economists often cite to explain the national stagnation of wages at the low- and middle-income levels. Greater rewards for those with the right education, technological skills and entrepreneurial drive is often cited as the other side of the coin.
But to Edward N. Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University, that is only a small part of the explanation.
"Generally what's happening in the U.S. economy is that capital is what's being rewarded, and not labor," he said, citing shifts in taxation as well as income. "Average wages have been stagnant now for almost 25 years, and the share of income going to owners of capital has been rising dramatically in the last 10 years particularly."
Mr. Feldstein said there were potential pluses for the city in the explosion of wealth at the top, in contributions to cultural institutions, for example, and the private refurbishment of Central Park.
But Timothy J. Smeeding, an economist who directs the Center for Policy Research at Syracuse University, contends that "inequality is a problem, not just poverty."
"The winners increasingly are less interested in public goods that support everybody and more interested in segregating themselves from social problems which they will never experience," Dr. Smeeding said.
Some researchers contend that in public health, especially, inequality itself has measurable ill effects. Though the evidence is still disputed, recent studies at the Harvard School of Public Health are among several that link higher mortality and poorer health with higher inequality.
Others worry about the resentment of those falling behind, and the larger social effects of efforts by the losers to keep up. Dr. Wolff noted that a study of consumer finances issued by the Federal Reserve yesterday found that average consumer debt in families had increased by nearly $10,000 in three years.
"The middle class is going deeper and deeper into debt," he said. "They've been mortgaging their homes up to the hilt to try to keep up with the Wall Street Joneses."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: The Distance Between the Haves and the Have-Nots"
Since 1978, the gap between the rich and the poor in New York has widened.
 
Chart shows population segments and change in average earnings from poorest to richest, from 1978.
 
(Source: Economic Policy Institute/Cntr on Budget and Policy Priorities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); TRENDS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CENSUS (56%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA MARTIN STUART FELDSTEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000



485 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 11; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Letting the Housewares Do the Thinking

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 18

 BODY:
To soothe the dread of a 6 a.m. alarm clock call, wouldn't it be nice to know that the clock has told the coffee maker to start brewing the coffee?
In the never-ending American march toward the new and improved, consumers will soon be able to buy appliances that "talk" to each other, so that the coffee maker knows you have just staggered from the bed and need caffeine badly. 
 That is just the beginning of the gee whiz contrivances on display at the International Housewares Show in Chicago this week, where 1,900 exhibitors from around the world are trotting out the very latest for buyers.
Besides its alarm clock that alerts the coffee maker, Sunbeam is offering a scale that points you toward the right path. If the scale shows a recent weight gain, for example, it sends a message to a kitchen computer that calls up healthier recipes. And if the reading on the Sunbeam blood-pressure monitor is too high, the device can send an automatic e-mail message to a physician.
It remains to be seen, of course, whether anyone is clamoring for all this high-tech assistance around the house. It also remains to be seen whether people who still cannot program a VCR, and there are plenty of us, will ever be able to learn how to program the computerized appliances to do their tricks.
In this age of affluence, manufacturers are courting consumers with a promise to pamper. As ever, decadence is as popular as sin. But they do not put it quite that way. Now, luxury is packaged as virtue. Buying and having the best, it seems, is seen simply as a matter of being prudent and thoughtful.
Smart is the buzzword in the product booths here. A microwave by Sharp Electronics Corporation, for example, flashes ingredients, recipes and cooking instructions that have been downloaded from a Web site. The idea is that any kitchen amateur can come home and whip up Tuscan farfalle.
Even buying a kitchen knife is now apparently an intellectual pursuit. "It's the physics of the blade," Brad Daggett, a spokesman for Chicago Cutlery, said, explaining why a $100 chef's knife is a more intelligent purchase than one for $25.
Lisa Casey Weiss, a spokeswoman for the International Housewares Show, said: "People want to look smart. We're all about image."
The iron, too, has gone high tech. Krups is displaying its V-70 Intelligent model, with a thermoscale that gauges when the temperature is right for pressing a shirt. "No more spit tests," said Jodi Dixon, who displayed the $99.99 iron, which comes with a vulcanized rubber case, for the consumer who wants to be safe and, of course, smart.
But if deep thinking is the pitch, it is the deep pockets that make the housewares show go around. "God bless Bill Clinton, or is it Alan Greenspan, or maybe its Bill Gates, I don't know," said Lisa Callaghan, a spokeswoman for All-Clad Metal Crafters, which sells a two-quart saucepan for $130. "But we have this wonderful economy and people can afford to make choices."
So much so, apparently, that people can have their cake and eat it, too. Ms. Callaghan told of a shopper who bought two sets of the handsome cookware, one for cooking and one for displaying.
Midwest Tropical is selling indoor waterfalls for nearly $1,300. And Sanyo is coming out with a chair that massages, $2,600, and a foot massager, $300. The chair comes with a control panel with options for massage, tapping, stretching or the combination. There is even a calf vibrator, with fast and slow speeds. Its makers insist that it is the closest thing to having a masseuse in the family room, with a motor that kneads as if hands are coming out of the reclining chair.
"Not cheap," Mitsunori Kurisu, the chief planner for Sanyo, said. "But people are out working hard, they need to come home and relax."
For those who want to be pampered without paying a fortune, Conair is marketing a device that turns a bathtub into a whirlpool for $99.95.
In Ms. Callaghan's view, there is more to conspicuous consumption than impressing friends and relatives, although that does not hurt. "Consumers are just getting sick of disposable products," she said. "They want to buy things that will last. They want something they can hand down to their grandchildren."
The little ones might prefer the fish motion lamp or the Denver Bronco football bank among the new products on display. For Fido and his owner, there is a water bottle that allows them to bond by drinking from the same cup (two different water sources) in their travels. "This way, the owner and dog can share something," Howard Shapiro, of Cool Pooch Products, said.
The show has had its usual retinue of celebrities, including an actor who plays Mr. Clean in television advertisements, and Linda Evans, with her facial toning mask, Rejuvenique. But the biggest attraction by far was Emeril Lagasse, the celebrity chef of the Food Network, who was promoting a line of cookware.
As baby boomers grow too old to stay out late, they want nice things around them at home; at least that is what the manufacturers are betting. "People feel like, 'I'm spending all this time at home, and I want something to show for it,' " Ms. Weiss said.
China, for example. Just as people do not typically wear business suits every day anymore, she said, people less often use formal china for dinner parties. "They might have an Asian theme, so they'll go out and buy a set of square plates, even though they're only going to use them once all year."
She added: "It's gotten upscale, but not formal. They're calling it 'casual elegance.' "
With the marketeers aiming their pitches, it is time for the smartest buyers, as always, to beware.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: INDULGENCE -- An alarm clock, below, tells a computer, left, to start the coffee maker; someone's getting out of bed. The display was at the International Housewares Show. DIFFERENT SPIN -- A vacuum cleaner-like item by Conair turns a bath into a whirlpool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SHARP ELECTRONICS CORP (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOME APPLIANCES; INTERNATIONAL HOUSEWARES SHOW; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PRESSURE SENSORS (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK LISA CALLAGHAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



486 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: They Know What You Listened to Last Summer on Your Car Radio

BYLINE: By CATHERINE GREENMAN 

 BODY:
LIKE easy listening? Classic rock? Howard Stern? Next time you drive to a concert arena or down a freeway, your car radio could be transmitting some information of its own: your listening tastes.
For the last four years, Mobiltrak, based in Birmingham, Ala., has been marketing a device that finds out what radio stations people are listening to inside their cars. Mobiltrak's clients include concert arenas, shopping malls and car dealerships, all of whom pay to install the shoebox-size devices at the entrances of their businesses. 
 The monitor works by picking up signals from a car radio's oscillator, the part of the radio that tunes into the station. The data is recorded and sent via modem to Mobiltrak, which then sends an e-mail report to its clients on a daily or weekly basis.
Companies use Mobiltrak's device to determine whether the money they spend on radio advertising is being spent in the right places. Knowing the stations customers listen to as they drive in is one way of finding this out, they say.
"If we're going to spend advertising dollars in Boston to encourage people to come see Aerosmith, we want to determine which radio stations have the best opportunity of reaching an Aerosmith listener," said Mike Ferrel, president and chief executive of SFX Entertainment, a major concert promoter and venue owner and operator. He said SFX had paid Mobiltrak "a number in the high five figures" for a three-year deal.
Another Mobiltrak user, Lenny Sage, vice president of the Universal City Nissan car dealership in Los Angeles, said, "We recognize that people channel surf, but with the amount of sources we get on a weekly basis, about three to four thousand, we think we're getting a good picture of what they listen to."
Other Mobiltrak clients include radio stations themselves, which have commissioned the company to install monitors along major freeways and other heavily trafficked roads. "We've wired the entire market in Los Angeles, Phoenix and Atlanta," said Lucius Stone, vice president for sales and marketing at Mobiltrak.
Mobiltrak (www.mobiltrak.com) is not the first to monitor people's radio choices. The British Broadcasting Corporation's television licensing group, for example, deploys so-called detector vans to drive down residential streets and detect oscillator signals from televisions inside homes. The group then verifies with its database that each homeowner has a license for the television set, which is required in Britain.
Mobiltrak works without the cars' occupants even being aware that their listening habits are being monitored. That has raised concerns among some privacy experts.
"The practice is deplorable, but like so many other laws relating to privacy, there are all sorts of loopholes in wiretap laws," said David Banisar, a lawyer with Privacy International, a privacy watchdog group based in London that focuses on surveillance by government and corporations.
Mobiltrak and its clients maintain that the monitoring device performs a random sweep of car radios but does not identify the car or its occupants and therefore does not infringe on people's privacy.
"It's not personal, it's generic," Mr. Ferrel said. "We get information that a car is listening to 97.5, not that the person is listening to 97.5."
A random sampling of radio station "hits" might be considered relatively harmless, and not much different from an Internet site's recording the number of hits it gets. But couple the monitoring device with a digital camera that reads license plates, critics say, and these companies will be able to match individual car owners to their favorite radio stations.
"There's the opportunity and the economic motivation to match the license to the listening data," said Jason Catlett, president of Junkbusters Corporation, a consumer privacy Web site (www.junkbusters .com). "This would be of enormous interest to radio stations, which are paid by advertisers according to their audience demographics. Imagine if they could prove that more than 50 percent of their audience makes over $75,000 a year."
Others worry that the information could be used in the wrong way. "This opens an enormous can of worms where the commercial pressure will be to refine who is listening to what station at what time and in what place," said Joel R. Reidenberg, professor of law at Fordham University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mobilltrak device, at a client's site. (Mobiltrak)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SFXE (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: MOBILTRAK BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOBILTRAK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; AUTOMOBILES POP & ROCK (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); WIRETAPPING (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); RETAILERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENMAN, CATHERINE HOWARD STERN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



487 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Compassion of a Cardinal

BYLINE: By Mario M. Cuomo; Mario M. Cuomo, a lawyer, served three terms as the governor of New York.

 BODY:
Greeting marchers from the steps of St. Patrick's Cathedral in his bright red skull cap and cape, or delivering a homily from its lofty pulpit, Cardinal John O'Connor is an instantly familiar face, a grand and powerful public figure who exudes charm and grace.
Most New Yorkers, however, have little knowledge of his complex character as a priest and a religious leader. That seems to me a sad paradox, especially when we have grown accustomed to learning too much about most of our public figures. 
 Throughout 15 years of indefatigable ministering and advocacy, the cardinal has carried the banner of the Roman Catholic Church in high-visibility campaigns against abortion and homosexuality. In the process he has earned a reputation as one of the Vatican's favorite conservative dogmatists.
I have felt the force of the cardinal's strong advocacy on the subject of abortion, but I also know about his equally vigorous efforts on behalf of the rest of the Catholic agenda. Over the last decade and a half, his New York Archdiocese has educated, housed, cared for, comforted and counseled hundreds of thousands of Catholics and non-Catholics. None of the great American philanthropies have done more for the most vulnerable among us. And in some cases the archdiocese has led the way for the rest of the private charities.
One example in particular comes to mind. In 1983, when AIDS suddenly struck New York like a plague, our great city nearly panicked. Frightened and confused New Yorkers began attacking "homosexuals" as the cause of the problem. People thought to be suffering from AIDS were treated as pariahs; it was difficult to get beds for the victims or doctors and nurses to treat them. With no need for prodding from government, the cardinal made St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan a haven for AIDS victims, and that example helped encourage the city's aggressive response to a uniquely severe crisis.
The cardinal has also advanced classic American Catholic social policy with his undiluted and proud advocacy of the union movement, helping to assure dignity and economic equality to all working men and women. And his gentle but insistent importunings have advanced ecumenism significantly, particularly with the Jewish community.
Altogether, his work should have earned the cardinal a reputation as one of the Vatican's favorite social progressives, as well as one of its premier conservative dogmatists. Surely, he has also been one of the most persistent of advocates, because the former admiral has found himself constantly sailing against the prevailing winds in a nation that has become more sexually permissive and at the same time less willing to offer collective support for social needs.
And, of course, there are personal deeds that tell us even more about the cardinal: unpublicized visits to AIDS patients to comfort them in their last hours; long, personal letters to Catholic leaders, filled with humble admissions of his own imperfection and gentle attempts to save them from committing what he thought were grave and dangerous errors of judgment; scores of homilies to small groups of communicants at daily Mass.
All of these were private acts of conscience and compassion by an extraordinary prince of the Church who has always been a priest first. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NEW YORK ARCHDIOCESE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); AIDS & HIV (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); CHARITIES (71%); ABORTION (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); WOMEN WORKERS (65%); CITIES (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); NURSES & NURSING (63%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M; O'CONNOR, JOHN (CARDINAL) CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



488 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR FALLS. The dollar fell against the yen on speculation Japan would not get a commitment from the Group of Seven to help stem the yen's strength. The dollar slipped to 105.36 yen from 105.72 yen.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since August 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



489 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: New Housing Rose Steeply In December

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The Commerce Department said today that construction of new housing rose 7.1 percent in December, closing the best year for housing since 1986 despite increased mortgage rates.
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said its latest review of the economy showed strong business activity throughout the country, with retailers recording a strong holiday season and manufacturers experiencing a broad-based rebound. 
 The Fed's report, known as the beige book and published eight times a year, said surveys of its 12 regions showed "strong economic growth in December and early January."
The strength reflected continued robust spending by consumers, who account for two-thirds of total economic activity, and gains in manufacturing as overseas markets began to revive from Asian and Latin American economic crises.
The Fed noted that the United States banking system and other parts of the economy weathered the Year 2000 computer changeover without major disruptions and it predicted few further problems.
It also said that even though labor markets remained tight, there was still no sign that employers were handing out large wage increases. Consumer prices also remained in check, the report said.
The survey will be used by the central bank when it meets on Feb. 1 and 2 to review interest rates. Many analysts and economists predict an increase.
In the housing report, the Commerce Department said builders, aided by better-than-normal weather, began work on new units at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.71 million units last month.
That represented the largest monthly increase in starts of new housing since a 7.7 percent gain in October 1998. Unusually high temperatures allowed builders to keep working until year-end. Still, the December figures surprised analysts, who had been expecting a much smaller rise, of 0.6 percent.
For all of 1999, builders started construction on 1.66 million new units, up 3 percent from 1998. That followed a 10 percent annual gain the year before. Still, the 1.66 million level was the highest since 1.80 million units were started in 1986.
Richard Yamarone, an economist with the Argus Research Corporation, commented that "the economy continues to thunder on, and the housing sector has shown resilience despite higher interest rates."
In 1998, exceptionally low mortgage rates spurred a record housing boom. Last year, higher mortgage rates cut into demand but housing activity still remained brisk. Plentiful jobs, low inflation and a strong stock market put Americans in a buying mood. Many economists, though, predict slower growth this year as mortgage rates are expected to continue climbing.
In December, the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 7.9 percent, up from 6.7 percent in December 1998. Last week, mortgage rates climbed to 8.18 percent, the highest level since April 1997.
Regionally, housing starts surged 17.4 percent in the South, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 801,000 units. They rose 13.4 percent in the Midwest, to a rate of 405,000 units, and 7.6 percent in the Northeast, to a rate of 156,000.
But in the West, housing starts fell 15.5 percent, to an annual pace of 350,000 units.
Starts of single-family homes rose 7.9 percent in December, to a rate of 1.4 million units, while apartments and condominiums rose 3.7 percent, to a rate of 310,000 units.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" tracks the number of new private houses started, and permits authorized, during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates since January 1998.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; CONDOMINIUMS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WEATHER (69%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



490 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Council Modifies City Budget, Adding $180 Million in Spending

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
The City Council approved yesterday about $180 million in additional spending for the rest of the fiscal year, including $20 million to help end social promotions in the city's schools, as well as more money for public libraries, after-school programs and efforts to combat asthma and lead poisoning in children.
The Council, in modifying the budget for the fiscal year that began on July 1, recognized an increase in revenue of nearly $584 million, mainly a result of increased tax revenue generated by a strong economy. 
 The Council and the Giuliani administration agreed to allocate $404 million of the new-found revenue to the city's budget surplus. The remaining $180 million in revenue was allocated for the increased spending.
One of the largest spending increases was an extra $28 million for the Sanitation Department for exporting trash from Manhattan to New Jersey.
In the city budget adopted in June, officials had calculated the cost of exporting the trash to be $55 a ton but had underestimated it; the actual cost is $62 a ton, necessitating the additional $28 million.
The modified budget includes $3 million for lead poisoning prevention, $1.7 million for after-school programs, $1.25 million for libraries and $500,000 for minority recruitment in the Fire Department. The budget also includes about $1.2 million for salary raises for the city's top elected officials. The raises were approved in July.
The budget modification for the first quarter is usually passed in November but was delayed this year in part because of a dispute between the Council and the Giuliani administration. The Council opposed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's plan to increase the use of private ambulance companies on some overtime shifts now handled by the Fire Department.
The administration agreed to drop that proposal from the budget modification.
Yesterday, officials in both the Council and the administration expressed satisfaction with the budget changes.
"I am quite pleased over the fact that the mayor has acknowledged significantly increased revenues, which is more in keeping with the Council's prognosis when we adopted the budget last June," said Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the Finance Committee. "By and large, it was a healthy and important modification and we are greatly satisfied."
The mayor's budget director, Robert M. Harding, said he was also satisfied. The higher revenue figures, he said, "evidence the city's continued fiscal strength." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (95%); FIRE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (95%); FIRE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ASTHMA; LEAD; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; POISONING AND POISONS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POISONINGS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEAD POISONING (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); LIBRARIANS (77%); LEAD (77%); LIBRARIES (72%); ASTHMA (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



491 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Failing Korean Automakers Become Worldwide Quarry

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Two South Korean automakers spent the 1990's building costly factories, running them inefficiently and wrecking their balance sheets with enormous debts -- and have now emerged as sought-after acquisition targets in the latest round of consolidation in the global auto industry.
At industry conferences here over the last two weeks, American and European executives have repeatedly cited the Daewoo Motor Company and Samsung Motor Inc., both of which are insolvent, as desirable purchases at the right price. 
 The South Korean auto market -- once virtually closed to outsiders by government regulations and local business practices -- has started to revive with the rebound from the Asian economic crisis. And because the Korean currency is still weaker than it had been before the crisis took hold late in 1997, South Korea has become an attractive place to manufacture for export to other countries, with Daewoo already moving into the United States market despite its financial problems at home.
So far, though, finding the right price has been difficult. Western automakers have pursued their forays as bottom-fishing, looking for ways to buy factories and brands for pennies on the dollar. Korean automakers and their creditors have held out for prices that might at least allow them to cover a large chunk of their debts.
The result has been a slow, awkward dance, in which both sides are playing hard to get. General Motors, for instance, has been in talks to buy Daewoo for two years.
The tempo has picked up in the last several weeks as the Ford Motor Company has also begun negotiations with Daewoo while Renault S.A. has started trying to acquire Samsung Motor. But G.M., Ford and Renault executives have each said that a deal is possible only if they do not have to take responsibility for all of the Korean companies' debts -- a condition that has so far been rejected by the Korean automaker's executives and creditors.
Wayne Booker, Ford's vice chairman for international operations, said in an interview tonight that "we clearly wouldn't take on the debt load Daewoo has at the present time, and we're just exploring."
"I don't think a resolution will be very quick," Mr. Booker continued. "It will not be until after the parliamentary elections" in South Korea, "and they're in April."
Ford's late entry into the bidding has prompted some muttering in Detroit that the company might just be running up the price for G.M. But Mr. Booker denied this, saying, "That may be the end result but that's not why we're in it -- we're in it because we can't let a company of that size go by without investigating it."
One reason for the nervousness of Western automakers is that Daewoo Motor and Samsung Motor are both part of huge conglomerates with many different debt and equity relationships among the various subsidiaries.
Louis Schweitzer, Renault's chairman and chief executive, remarked: "Our idea is not to buy a company, but to buy assets and a brand. We are not quite sure we can understand a Korean balance sheet."
Mr. Schweitzer's comments were regarded as particularly significant because Renault did have the confidence last March to buy 37 percent of the Nissan Motor Company at a time when other automakers, notably DaimlerChrysler A.G., were reluctant to invest because their executives were unsure that they understood the extent of Nissan's debts.
John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, said that while growth in Asia was one of his top goals, he would not overpay for Daewoo. "This is a company that is severely troubled with massive debts," he told reporters here this week. "We have other options; they don't necessarily include Korea."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); RNO (PAR) (92%); RNO (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DAEWOO MOTOR CO; SAMSUNG MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; RENAULT SA FORD MOTOR CO (94%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAEWOO MOTOR CO; SAMSUNG MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; RENAULT SA

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH G M FORD (66%); WAYNE BOOKER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



492 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: University, Mexico's Pride, Is Ravaged by Strike

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 19

 BODY:
One of the first things the administrators of the national university here will have to do, if they ever get it back from student strikers who have occupied it for nine months, is to fumigate. Rats and bugs, even the odd scorpion, have run free on the leafy campus as it sits largely empty.
The battered look of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, with its walls tattooed in insurrectionist graffiti and its courtyards converted to tent camps for strikers, are only the most visible signs of deterioration during the months of paralysis. 
 Once a proud symbol of publicly financed education for the masses, this immense university -- with 275,000 students the largest in Latin America -- has suffered losses in students, research, finances and especially academic stature that it will probably never recoup.
The strike began last April as a limited student protest seeking to preserve free tuition and open admissions. But it soon exploded out of the control of the administrators, President Ernesto Zedillo and even the broad-based student organization that initiated it, crippling the school.
It has dragged on because of a tough, anarchic leftist movement that took control of the student revolt, akin to the radicalism that clashed with the police at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle last month. Its larger sworn enemy is the globally intertwined economy and the competitive, free-market policies that are changing Mexico.
The demand of the strikers for a free higher education for working-class children was not extreme. But they ran headlong into a new world and a new Mexico, where shrinking public spending can no longer promote social mobility through a huge and generous institution like the national university.
This week, the administration and the strikers are headed for a showdown. Dueling referendums will allow each side to gauge its support. A 48-hour vote organized by the students on their platform ended today. A separate "plebiscite" on a counterproposal by the university president, Juan Ramon de la Fuente, takes place Thursday.
The strike at the UNAM, as the university is known by its Spanish acronym, was begun April 22 by students who rejected a plan by its president at the time, Francisco Barnes de Castro, to raise tuition to about $75 a semester from a mere two cents.
The strikers also demanded that open admissions for all students from a number of public high schools, which had been canceled in 1995, be reinstated and that a general congress of faculty, students and workers be held to reorganize the university from top to bottom.
Along the way the strikers won battle after battle, and always came back asking for more. In June Mr. Barnes scrapped his tuition plan. In November he resigned in defeat. But the strikers pressed on.
On Jan. 5, Mr. de la Fuente, the former health minister who replaced Mr. Barnes, offered a plan that would suspend all tuition payments indefinitely, cancel most criminal charges brought against students protesters and open the general congress. Although Mr. de la Fuente had ceded practically every point, the strikers rejected his offer on the ground that it came from the administration, not from them.
President Zedillo, who once ran from government troops when he was a student protester during the uprising of 1968, considered sending the police to round up student leaders at several points, senior officials said. So far he has favored negotiations, fearing that any bloodshed would reawaken the trauma that still lingers from the government's brutal suppression of the students 32 years ago.
According to the treasurer of the university, Jose Manuel Covarrubias, the strike so far has cost it about $205 million, mainly in salaries paid to 30,000 teachers and 28,000 workers when no classes were under way on campus.
About half of all the scientific research in Mexico is done at the university, and with strikers camped out in the science department and many laboratories, it has been greatly impaired. Libraries and archives are barricaded shut. In the huge central campus vandalism and looting, probably by outsiders, has taken a toll the authorities will be able to calculate only after the strike ends.
Students have fled by the thousands to other universities, mostly outside of Mexico City. However, while at least 20,000 UNAM students supported the strike, more than 228,000 registered for classes last fall. Professors held classes in rented nooks, on athletic fields, even in their cars.
At the beginning the strike had broad student support. But as time wore on one faction, dubbed ultras by their fellow students, rose to dominate the movement.
Marathon verbal battles in the students' steering committee often raged for 24 hours and beyond. Once the ultras gained the upper hand they purged their opponents, sometimes in fistfights. At the height of the confrontation, protest leaders surrounded the stage where they presided with barbed wire to block dissenting students from storming it.
Sergio Humberto Abreu Cruz, 27, a political science student, was squarely behind the strike at first. His family's only income comes from the sale of pies baked by his mother. The $140-a-year fee the administration wanted to impose was going to drive him out of school.
But after Mr. Barnes withdrew his tuition plan, Mr. Abreu thought the strike should end.
"What the ultras' position came down to was that if the president says yes, we say no," Mr. Abreu said. "They wouldn't let me talk in meetings. They said my word was worthless. They banned me."
The strikers displayed the trappings of revolutionary Marxism, adorning their meetings with posters of Che Guevara, Stalin and Abimael Guzman, the imprisoned leader of the extremist Shining Path guerrillas in Peru.
But they know little about these men or their ideas. They are driven instead by the feeling of betrayal by the Mexican government, which has withdrawn its unconditional promise to educate them. They have a foreboding about their future in a tight and competitive economy where their first career step could well be unemployment. The vast university is their safe haven.
"This university gave me everything I am, my knowledge, my friends, my girlfriends," said Hugo, 20, a student on strike duty by the dry fountain in the center of the science complex. He withheld his last name, saying he feared that the police might come after him.
"It never asked me any questions about who I was," he said. "That's why we can't end the strike without winning all of our demands. The future of people like me in this university depends on it."
The movement was hard to bargain with because it was a many-headed body with arms in every one of more than 30 departments, schools and research institutes. When the new president, Mr. de la Fuente, agreed to talk with the strikers, they insisted on sending 120 delegates.
"Our leadership is horizontal," said Victor Barboza, 25, a music student. "Our movement is a chaos of ideas. We are looking for an anarchic utopia far away from any political theory. We want to practice pure democracy without any theories."
The movement fought even with those who initially supported it. Strikers had violent clashes with the press and fell out with the left-of-center city government.
One group of strikers assaulted a professor who tried to hold an open-air class outside the campus. A demonstration in front of the United States Embassy on Dec. 11 turned into a stone-throwing melee in which 98 strikers were arrested for property destruction. On Jan. 2 two students who were apparently trying to make small bombs were seriously injured when the explosive powder accidentally ignited.
The strikers also faced violence that reaffirmed their distrust of the authorities. Alejandro Echavarria, a political science student who was one of the strike's main strategists, said he was kidnapped and beaten by unknown captors.
At the recent meeting of the student strike council where the students rejected Mr. de la Fuente's proposal, they seemed not to have noticed that its terms meant they had won. Called for noon in a dim and chilly auditorium, the session finally got under way after dark and ended after dawn. The camraderie was strong, but one speaker after another denounced the president's offer as a plot to lull the strikers and prepare for police to storm the campus.
The strike has left many taxpayers disenchanted with the university, compounding Mr. de la Fuente's difficulties in retaining government support for the old university model.
"The society is doubting the university," Mr. de la Fuente said in an interview. "When the strike ends, we will have to prove to the public that it has not exhausted its usefulness."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under a banner portraying Che Guevara, strikers at the National Autonomous University of Mexico paint another promoting their cause. (Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY (MEXICO) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITY (MEXICO) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STRIKES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TUITION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STRIKES (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); RIOTS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); POLITICS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (51%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) JUAN RAMON DE LA FUENTE (66%); FRANCISCO BARNES DE CASTRO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



493 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Fed to No Longer Adopt Policy Bias Toward Rates

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve said today that it had dropped its practice of adopting a policy bias toward raising or reducing interest rates, and that from now on it would signal its assessment of inflation risks through a formulaic public statement after each meeting.
The central bank said it was making the changes in response to "unanticipated confusion" among investors and economists over its previous practice, put into effect last spring, of disclosing whether it was formally leaning toward a shift in monetary policy. 
 Disclosing the bias was initially seen by the Fed as a way of transmitting to the financial markets its short- to medium-term outlook for the economy, and therefore reducing the risk that any change in monetary policy would destabilize the markets.
But in a number of cases last year, financial markets read too much into the announcements, sending stock and bond prices gyrating on the assumption that the Fed's policy stance implied a preordained outcome to the central bank's next policy-setting meeting.
As the problems became evident, Fed officials said last year that they would study how the disclosure policy -- adopted initially as part of a gradual effort to become less secretive -- might be changed to avoid knocking the markets off balance.
The solution announced today seeks to maintain continued public disclosure of the Fed's economic outlook without suggesting that a change in policy has been all but decided. It was developed by a working group headed by Roger W. Ferguson Jr., the Fed's vice chairman.
Under the new procedure, the Fed will make a public statement after every meeting of its Federal Open Market Committee. Under the old procedure, the Fed was committed to making a statement only in the event of a policy change or a major shift in its economic outlook.
The public statement will contain a passage setting out the Fed's assessment of the relative likelihood that inflation will increase or that the economy will become weaker over the subsequent several months. The Fed said the time frame covered by the statement was specifically intended to extend beyond the time of the next policy-setting meeting, and therefore not to imply that an immediate policy shift was a sure thing.
The statement would contain wording chosen from among three options. If the committee views the likelihood of growing inflation pressures to be equivalent to the risk of a slowing economy, the statement will state that the risks are "balanced with respect to prospects for both goals," the Fed said.
If the Fed is clearly more concerned that a strong economy might generate rising prices, the statement will state that the risks are "weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures."
Should the Fed be concerned mainly that the economy is slowing to a rate below its capacity for noninflationary growth, the statement would read that the risks were "weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness," the central bank said in a statement.
"A committee view that the risks are unbalanced would not necessarily trigger either a current or a subsequent policy move," the Fed said. "Given the inherent uncertainty about future developments, policy actions often importantly depend on the flow of new information and the committee's judgment about its implications."
Not only will there be no mention of a formal policy bias in the public statement, but the Fed will no longer vote on such a policy formulation and will not include any bias in the document it prepares at each meeting specifying how the Federal Reserve Bank of New York should carry out monetary policy through its open- market operations.
The bias was originally intended to suggest the direction that the Fed might move if it were to shift policy before the subsequent meeting, a rare event. The Fed said today that even though it was dropping the bias as a policy tool, it still had the ability to raise or reduce rates between meetings, though it stressed that it would do so only in "exceptional circumstances."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



494 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Congress, Preoccupied by Elections, Shows Signs That Debt Reduction Will Be Its Main Goal

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
As Congress prepares to convene for an election-year session likely to be distinguished by an even greater degree of partisanship than usual, the two parties seem headed toward deadlock on most issues other than dedicating the federal budget surplus to reducing the national debt.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois called on Republicans today to develop and enact a plan to pay off the main portion of the debt -- the $3.6 trillion in Treasury bonds owned by the public -- within 15 years. 
 In doing so, Mr. Hastert countered a similar initiative set out last year by President Clinton and illustrated again how both parties had found debt reduction to have a powerful appeal to voters.
Yet, among Republicans, the goal is as much to keep the growing federal budget surplus off limits to Democratic spending proposals as it is to reduce the debt. And among Democrats, dedicating much of the surplus to debt reduction is popular in part because it leaves that much less money on the table for Republican tax-cutting plans.
Some members of both parties are holding out hope that the budget surplus will be so big -- and that the political imperative to bring some concrete accomplishments home to voters will overcome the impulse to block the other side's agenda -- that there will be room for compromise on a variety of issues.
President Clinton is pushing big proposals to improve access to health care, add prescription drug coverage to Medicare and expand the tax credit for the working poor. Republicans plan to put forward a series of narrowly drawn but politically appealing tax cuts, and to try to complete work on a number of bills left over from last year.
"We're very confident this will be a year of legislative accomplishment," Joe Lockhart, the White House spokesman, said today.
But the Republican leadership is playing down expectations for any major legislation this year, hoping that they will be able to work with a Republican president a year from now. Moreover, they said, Congress will have relatively little time this year because members will spend extra time at home campaigning.
"Everybody needs to acknowledge and not apologize for the fact that it will be a shorter year," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, referring to the truncated election-year schedule. "There won't be a lot of time for big, new initiatives."
To the degree the two sides thwart each other on other issues, they are that much more likely to fall back on eliminating the national debt held by the public as their major goal.
"By controlling spending and wisely investing our current tax surplus, it is my personal view that it is possible to reach this goal by the year 2015," Mr. Hastert said today in a speech in Albuquerque, N.M.
Mr. Hastert directed Representative John R. Kasich, Republican of Ohio, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, to produce a plan for debt reduction.
Mr. Kasich's goal, Republican aides said, is to make sure as much money as possible is locked away for debt reduction, while still leaving enough of the surplus available next year to enact the $483 billion, five-year tax cut proposed by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas if Mr. Bush should be elected president.
Mr. Clinton has made eliminating the debt by 2015 a central part of his economic policy, and Vice President Al Gore has put it at the heart of his presidential campaign.
But Republicans create a quandary for themselves in setting a goal of eliminating the debt by 2015. To do so would almost certainly require using all or nearly all of the portion of the projected surplus generated by excess Social Security revenues.
By using that money for the debt, Republicans would be unable to use it for another cherished goal, creating a system of private investment accounts within Social Security as a means of shoring up the retirement system's financial condition.
The Congressional Budget Office and the White House's Office of Management and Budget will publish new projections on the surplus in the next few weeks. Last year both agencies predicted that Social Security would generate $2 trillion in excess revenue over the next decade, while general tax revenues would exceed spending by $1 trillion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 1803 SOCIAL SECURITY SURPLUS ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); TAXATION BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (72%); BONDS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (90%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JOHN KASICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



495 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Unions' Membership in 1999 Was the Best in Two Decades

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Union membership nationwide rose faster last year than at any time in the past two decades, a development that labor experts called the strongest sign yet that John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, was succeeding in his efforts to reverse the labor movement's lengthy slide.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics announced yesterday that union membership climbed by 265,000 last year, to 16.5 million, with growth coming not just among government workers, but also in the private sector, where union membership has plunged in recent decades. 
 "It's quite significant," said Kent Wong, director of the Center for Labor Research and Education at the University of California at Los Angeles. "After a decline that had been continuing for several decades, the labor movement has finally begun to see a rise in union membership."
Labor leaders said the growth stemmed largely from stepped-up organizing efforts by individual unions. They said a secondary factor was that some growth in the unionized work force came about when unionized employers hired additional workers as the booming economy added 2.7 million jobs last year.
Even some fierce critics of unions acknowledged that last year's growth was impressive. Leo Troy, a Rutgers University economics professor who is writing a book he plans to call "The Twilight of Unionism," said: "My first reaction is it's definitely a surprise, and a positive step for organized labor. Whether it represents a real turnaround, we have to wait and see. What's the biggest surprise is it's the first increase in a long time in private-sector union membership, and that's very good news for the labor movement."
With union membership falling by one-fourth since 1980, Mr. Sweeney hailed the new numbers as showing that his push to get the nation's unions to devote more resources to recruitment was paying off.
"These numbers show we've gotten this train rolling, and it's picking up speed, but we're not at our destination yet," Mr. Sweeney said.
He noted that many workers who had long shunned unions were now seeking to join them to get more voice in their workplace, including doctors, software workers, graduate teaching assistants and even many workers in the anti-union South.
Mr. Sweeney said unions needed to show gains for several more years before labor began to regain some of the formidable strength it once had. In the 1950's, unions represented 35 percent of the nation's work force, but last year they represented just 13.9 percent -- a figure that remained unchanged from 1998.
Since Mr. Sweeney took the helm of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations in late 1995, he has not just increased labor's focus on organizing, but expanded its political clout by getting unions to devote more effort and money to electoral campaigns. Any future increases in union membership could further strengthen labor's influence in politics and collective bargaining.
Labor leaders pointed to several major victories in last year's efforts, among them organizing 74,000 home health aides in Los Angeles in the biggest successful organizing drive since the 1930's, and unionizing 5,200 Pillowtex-Cannon textile workers in North Carolina after nine decades of failed efforts.
In recent decades, union membership among government workers has soared as many state and city governments gave civil servants the right to join unions. At the same time, membership in the fast-growing private sector fell steadily as the nation's heavily unionized manufacturing sector shed jobs and as many companies battled organizing drives.
Mr. Sweeney said that in 1999 the nation's unions organized 600,000 additional workers, the most since the 1970's. But growth in labor's ranks was far smaller than that, union leaders explained, because of layoffs of unionized workers.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics said unions added 112,000 members in the private sector last year, the biggest increase in two decades. It reported that 9.4 million private-sector workers were unionized last year, representing 9.4 percent of the private-sector workforce. The bureau also found that 7.1 million government employees were unionized, 37.3 percent of public-sector employees.
The United Auto Workers has focused on organizing auto parts plants while construction unions have mounted their biggest efforts in decades to organize work sites.
"The private-sector growth is a clear sign that our efforts to think strategically and creatively are beginning to bear fruit," said Kirk Adams, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing director.
Mr. Adams announced last week that he would soon leave that post to take a job as a top assistant to the president of the Service Employees' union.
Many labor leaders cite the Service Employees International Union as a model for organizing. That union said it organized 155,000 workers last year, mostly health care workers, and said it spent $70 million on organizing, accounting for 47 percent of the union's budget.
Elaine Bernard, director of the Harvard University Trade Union Program, said the ambitious plans Mr. Sweeney announced in 1995 to expand labor's ranks seemed to be succeeding.
"You're turning an oil tanker around, and it takes a long time to turn it," Ms. Bernard said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Trend in Labor"
The graph shows union or association members as a percentage of wage and salary workers since 1983. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNIONIZATION; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (93%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); 

PERSON: SWEENEY, JOHN J; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN J SWEENEY (90%); KIRK ADAMS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



496 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICANS;
McCain and Bush Find a Fight in the Details of a Tax Cut

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL with FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
With The Republican battle over tax cuts escalating daily, Senator John McCain demanded today that Gov. George W. Bush stop running a commercial attacking his tax cut plan, while Bush advisers visited McCain headquarters to scrutinize his tax calculations.
Those were the highlights of a campaign day that veered from the serious to the surreal to the silly. 
 The commercial at the center of the controversy repeats the line of attack against Mr. McCain that Mr. Bush began on Saturday at the Des Moines debate when he asserted that one small aspect of Mr. McCain's tax-cut proposal, which would repeal tax exemptions for certain employer-provided fringe benefits, would in effect raise taxes by $40 billion and hurt working people.
Mr. McCain, who hopscotched from campaign events in New York to Hartford to Boston across the day, insisted that this was not true and called on Mr. Bush to stop running the commercial.
"It may be a sign of some desperation because they are looking at the same polls we are," he said of the Bush campaign. "They know it's inaccurate and we know it's inaccurate so it should be taken down." He also released a letter from outside fiscal experts to back his contention that his proposal would cost less than $4 billion and would affect employers, not employees.
But Mr. Bush, campaigning in New Hampshire, did not back down. "All I'm doing is talking about what he put down on paper," he said.
At a news conference at a high school in Plaistow, N.H., Mr. Bush also sought to raise doubts about Mr. McCain's grasp of domestic policy, saying, "If in fact he's changed his plan I look forward to seeing what the change is -- for the third or fourth time. I believe it's important when someone runs for president to lay out a plan that is consistent, that will stand the test of political scrutiny." He added, "That's what I've done. That's what a leader does."
The events capped a day that brought a sharp new tone of acrimony to the struggle for the Republican presidential nomination just before the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary. It narrowed the race to one issue: taxes and how best to cut them. In fact, there are large ideological differences behind the competing tax-cut policies of the two rivals who have emerged as the leading candidates in the Republican race.
Like his party's most avid tax-cutters, Mr. Bush has proposed a sweeping five-year, $485 billion tax cut that reduces tax rates across the board. Mr. McCain, betting that even Republican primary voters no longer favor tax cutting during prosperous times, has called for a tax cut of just under $240 billion to allow billions of dollars of the federal surplus to be devoted to Social Security, Medicare and reducing the national debt.
But the big ideas were not at the center of the debate. Instead, the Bush campaign has shifted the focus to a more arcane dispute. Mr. McCain included in his plan measures to close or eliminate corporate tax benefits worth more than $151 million over five years. And Mr. Bush picked one of these to fight over, the tax treatment of some fringe benefits -- how much money it would raise and who it would affect.
"What this is a sign of is an attempt to divert the debate from what it is really about," Mr. McCain said in New York City, "what do you do with the surplus." Later in the day, he said that Mr. Bush had reneged on their handshake agreement not to run negative ads. "I think it's a negative ad," Mr. McCain said carefully, "but I don't think it's an attack ad. That's parsing, I know."
The senator got some unlikely support from the Democratic National Committee, which said that Mr. Bush had "repeatedly whined" about attacks from Steve Forbes and was now using "the exact same type of attack on McCain."
Mr. McCain had left himself open to criticism that his numbers did not add up by providing little detail in his proposals. Mr. Bush's aides said that if Mr. McCain's fringe benefit proposal did not raise $40 billion, his plan would not work.
Mr. McCain says that education and health benefits were exempted and that the change would stop employers from deducting the costs of such things as golf clubs, spa memberships and parking.
Not only did Mr. Bush repeat his charges, he also pointedly used people from Mr. McCain's home state to amplify them. The campaign released attacks on the McCain plan by five Arizona state senators.
"Maybe if Senator McCain spent a little more time at home he would understand that we are not talking about country club memberships -- the government already taxes those -- but rather an education for a single mom or a life insurance policy for a hard-working father," said State Senator Rusty Bowers.
Perhaps the oddest political theater of the day came about after Rick Davis, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, told Karl Rove, the chief strategist for the Bush campaign, on "Good Morning, America" that the McCain campaign would be glad to answer any lingering questions the Bush camp had about his tax plan.
That resulted in two of Mr. Bush's tax advisers, Lawrence Lindsey and Representative Rob Portman of Ohio, traveling to Mr. McCain's national campaign headquarters in Alexandria, Va.
Dan Schnur, the McCain campaign spokesman, welcomed Mr. Lindsey and Mr. Portman with doughnuts and a sheaf of economic proposals, and he gave each of them a copy of Mr. McCain's autobiography. Mr. Lindsey and Representative Portman then argued in front of television cameras with Mr. Schnur and John Raidt, another McCain aide.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush took questions yesterday in Plaistow, N.H. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; FRINGE BENEFITS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; ELECTION ISSUES TAX RELIEF (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON; BRUNI, FRANK JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



497 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: A Tall Order On the Hudson;
Rural Area Looks Skeptically At Friary's Development Plans

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: GARRISON, N.Y., Jan. 14

 BODY:
For 70 years, the brothers and priests in training at the Mary Immaculate Friary of the Capuchin Order here lived an unremarkably quiet existence of prayer and Bible instruction on wooded grounds overlooking the Hudson River.
They volunteered with the local fire department. They opened their gymnasium to the 2,500 townsfolk. And on Sundays they fanned out to local parishes to help with Mass. But mostly the Capuchins (pronounced CAP-uh-chins) kept to their land, a 93-acre jewel hugging the eastern bank of the river 55 miles north of New York City. 
 So what are they doing at the center of a land dispute with such disparate if intriguing elements as West Point, land preservationists and Tibetan Buddhism -- all in the backdrop of the rustic hamlet Gov. George E. Pataki calls home?
It turns out that not even Capuchin-Franciscan friars can escape the emotions and controversy in New York City's exurbs when it comes to the prospect of commercial development, particularly one that would be among the largest ever built in Putnam County. There is little to do here but hike, and that is the way residents, many of them escapees from New York City and its suburbs, like it. Excitement? "If you want to do something around here you have to go to Peekskill or Poughkeepsie," one said, with pride in her voice.
And so, two years have passed since word got out that the Capuchins were selling to a developer, who has pitched the Town Board two proposals that would use 20 acres for the conversion of the gothic brick friary into a five-star hotel and the construction of retirement housing marketed to West Point alumni. The developer, Schwartzberg Associates of White Plains, has submitted the draft of its third proposal, each one scaled back to answer community resistance. The Town Board plans to discuss the latest proposal at a meeting next month.
The Rev. Anthony Vetrano, one of 3 friars still on grounds that in the early 1960's thrived with nearly 200, said all the order wanted to do was give up some unneeded land and make some sorely needed money in the process, to carry out its mission of helping the poor around the world. The Capuchins, who live at other seminaries in the area but still use the grounds for retreats and other activities, pay heating and insurance on buildings that have been empty for more than a decade, costing hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
"We were look for something that was going to help the community," Father Vetrano said. "We wanted to be good stewards of the property."
The Capuchins put up "for sale" signs along Route 9D and in short order were negotiating with prospective bidders, including Harris Schwartzberg, a principal of Schwartzberg Associates who recalls being floored at the beauty of the 1928 friary and even more excited at its view of the United States Military Academy at West Point across the river.
On a recent blustery afternoon, Mr. Schwartzberg walked the grounds, the wind lending a ghostly air to the well-maintained but abandoned buildings. With the golden sunlight streaming into the main chapel of the friary, he looked around and spoke of the banquet hall he envisioned would take its place. The wings that give the friary its E shape would house 100 rooms.
Outside, a distance away, a "village" of 196 upscale housing units marketed to, but not exclusively for, military retirees would rise, about 100 of them "assisted living" apartments for people who do not need round-the-clock care but may need help taking medication or bathing. The regular housing, cottage-like town houses, would sell for more than $250,000, and the assisted living units would lease for $2,000 to $4,000 per month, Mr. Schwartzberg said.
The name: the Village and Lodge at Point Lookout.
The latest proposal, he said, reduces the housing units to 196 from the originally proposed 425. Mr. Schwartzberg said the changes were the "bottom line" to make the project economically feasible.
In all, Schwartzberg Associates would invest $40 million to $50 million, making the project the largest in recent memory in Putnam County, according to Ross Weale of the county's economic development office. Mr. Schwartberg said his accountants projected that the town could receive about $1 million a year in tax revenue.
But William Mazzuca, the town supervisor of Philipstown, of which Garrison is a hamlet, said that figure probably overstated things. Mr. Mazzuca said he had tried to be fair in a dispute that is turning nasty.
Mr. Schwartzberg has derided opponents as elitists bent on keeping out outsiders, especially those with lower incomes who would commute to Garrison for the 150 staff positions and 1,200 construction jobs the project would create. He said he and his associates had met repeatedly with environmentalists and town officials to hear their concerns and write the proposals in a way that would satisfy them.
The project would not be visible from the road -- no building will be taller than the five-story friary -- and it would use the existing water and sewer system, with some modifications, Mr. Schwartzberg said.
Mr. Schwartzberg said he was getting exasperated at the pace with which the town had considered the proposal and would not rule out filing a lawsuit if the board went against him. In an interview, he also suggested that if the board rejected his current proposal, his firm might still buy the land and then resell it to an unspecified Brooklyn college that has expressed interest in opening a campus upstate.
Opponents, in turn, accuse Mr. Schwartzberg of insensitivity toward the town's character and exaggerating the benefits of the project while playing down or misleading people on its effect on traffic, town services and the environment. Although the town may derive some property tax benefit, opponents say, much if not all of it would be eaten away by the need for more fire protection and other services.
Suzie Gilbert, a writer who moved here 10 years ago to escape the hassles of New York City, said Mr. Schwartzberg and his representatives had adopted a patronizing attitude toward residents, who fear that allowing this development will open the gates to the suburbanization of a rural community proudly lacking malls or fast-food restaurants.
"They have put this forward as a charitable thing," Ms. Gilbert said. "This is a very high-end development. It will destroy the town."
When news broke that the Capuchins rejected an offer from the not-for-profit Open Space Institute to buy the property for $5 million, many expressed vague feelings that there must be something more to the deal. Open Space said it would buy the property in conjunction with Jewel Heart, an organization based in Ann Arbor, Mich., that organizes retreats and spiritual gatherings for adherents of Tibetan Buddhism.
But the Capuchins said Schwartzberg presented a more attractive deal that included rebuilding the youth and family ministry building on another parcel the order owns down the road, and honoring the history of the friars by opening a museum in the hotel and producing a documentary on the order. If the development is approved, the Capuchins would live in the new ministry building.
Both sides of the dispute have invoked the name of Mr. Pataki, who has spoken both of the need for more housing for retirees and the need to preserve open space. A spokesman, Michael McKeon, said "the governor's interest in protecting open space and protecting the quality of life in the Hudson Valley is well known and speaks for itself."
"But the governor does not believe it would be appropriate to weigh in on this project," Mr. McKeon added. "It's best for the locals to resolve."
(Democrats hold a four-to-one advantage on the town board, an anomaly in predominantly Republican Putnam County.)
West Point graduates have responded strongly to the idea.
Paul Bucha, a 1965 graduate of the academy and president of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society, said he had spoken to scores of graduates who would love to retire in the shadow of the academy to which they maintain strong emotional bonds.
"There is a mountain of West Point interest," said Mr. Bucha, who lives in nearby Somers and considers himself a friend of the environment who finds no harm in this project. "All you have to do is go to a West Point football game in the fall or a parade in the spring and ask the retirees if they would like access to a house with a view of West Point."
What chance they get depends on the five-member Town Board. Mr. Mazzuca said he and the other members would carefully review the proposal, but he did not have high hopes it would eventually pass. Either way, he said, the town is likely to face a lawsuit, something he hopes to avoid.
"I have never seen anything quite like this," said Mr. Mazzuca, 53, who grew up in and around Philipstown. "I thought the cell phone towers were a major issue. This is really something to behold."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A developer wants to use a chapel, above, and other parts of a Capuchin friary for a hotel and retirement community. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Harris Schwartzberg, a principal of the firm that wants to develop the Capuchin friary, says he is impressed by the building and its view. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Map of New York highlighting Garrison: Residents of Garrison, N.Y., have resisted plans for developing the friary. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CAPUCHIN ORDER; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; SCHWARTZBERG ASSOCIATES PUTNAM COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPUCHIN ORDER; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; SCHWARTZBERG ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: GARRISON (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOTELS AND MOTELS; HOUSING RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); RIVERS (72%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



498 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
A Young Girl's Smile Is Undiminished by a Serious Affliction

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Gertrude Atkinson's baby appeared normal, though she was underweight -- just 4 pounds 12 ounces when she was born -- and threw up nearly every day.
"There was no explanation," Ms. Atkinson said. "My obstetrician said I wasn't feeding her enough." 
 In fact, Ms. Atkinson's daughter, Jennifer, had a rare and incurable genetic disorder called Cornelia de Lange Syndrome, which is identified by a number of symptoms that can include mental retardation, low weight and height, and difficulty eating.
Though the syndrome is genetic, it is rarely passed directly from one generation to the next, Ms. Atkinson said. It is almost always caused by a randomly occurring genetic mutation that is believed to occur in 1 out of every 10,000 to 30,000 live births, according medical experts. No test can determine whether a person has the syndrome, but it is diagnosed when a person demonstrates a number of its characteristics. Cornelia de Lange was a Dutch pediatrician who was among the first to notice the symptoms.
Ms. Atkinson, who was a medical research technician for nine years at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said she never suspected what was wrong with her daughter until she discovered it on her own in May 1998.
She would spend hours after work pouring over medical documents and books, hoping to find symptoms similar to her daughter's.
"I felt a bit like a fiend or a weirdo," Ms. Atkinson said. When she finally found something that looked similar, at first she felt sadness, she said. "I said, it just couldn't be so, but it looked a lot like her."
Jennifer, now 14, is 4-foot-8 and weighs 71 pounds. She lives with her mother and her 16-year-old sister, Gertrude, in their two-bedroom apartment near Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. Her head and hands are smaller than those of most people her age. Though she is aware of what is going on around her, and responsive in nonverbal ways, she rarely speaks.
To find out more about the syndrome, Ms. Atkinson contacted the Cornelia de Lange Syndrome Foundation, which is based in Avon, Connecticut, and learned that a conference in Dallas was scheduled in June 1999 for the parents and families of those afflicted with the disease.
Ms. Atkinson, a single mother of two who earned about $34,000 a year and had to pay for afterschool daycare for Jennifer, desperately wanted to attend the conference but did not have enough money to pay for it, she said. So she contacted the Community Service Society of New York, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which had helped her earlier by paying for Jennifer to attend summer camp.
"This was kind of a unique request that came to us," said Sanford Lewis, Ms. Atkinson's case worker. "I could just tell by talking to Ms. Atkinson that this would be a tremendous benefit."
The society paid $840 in air fare for Ms. Atkinson and her two daughters to fly to Dallas and attend the three-day conference. While there, Jennifer was treated by the world's foremost experts in the syndrome, and her mother made lifelong contacts with parents of other children with the syndrome from around the world.
"I'm a single mother, living in one of the most expensive places in the world," Ms. Atkinson said. " Taking a trip like that was not possible for me."
Ms. Atkinson said she was given peace of mind knowing that experts were studying Jennifer's condition, and concluded that her case was relatively mild. "It took a lot of anxiety away," she said, "and also just to have met the doctor firsthand, who has seen hundreds of children with the syndrome, it made me feel more sure that that's what she had after all."
Most children who have the syndrome die by age 6, and many of those who live beyond that have physical deformities. The only medication Jennifer takes is a double dose prescription of Pepsid, which helps her digest her food.
Ms. Atkinson, 43, who has a bachelor's degree in biology and psychology from Fordham University, was laid off from her job in September. She said she was collecting unemployment benefits but wanted to get back into the workforce to ensure that her daughters get the best care they can.
She said finding a job now was much harder than it was when she was a recent college graduate. But she would do whatever it takes to support her children, she said, including leaving her profession in the sciences.
Jennifer smiles so easily and warmly that the foundation chose to use her portrait in literature it published about the syndrome.
"They said she would make a good model," Ms. Atkinson said, looking at her daughter.
Jennifer looked into her mother's eyes, and then looked about the room and just smiled at the compliment.
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $4,865,236.40
Recorded Wednesday $64,823.70
 
Total $4,930,060.10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gertrude Atkinson, left, her daughter, Jennifer, 14, center, who suffers from a rare genetic syndrome, and her other daughter, Gertrude. A donation allowed the three to attend a conference in Dallas on Jennifer's illness. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CORNELIA DE LANGE SYNDROME PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GENETIC DISEASES (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (76%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (76%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); MENTAL RETARDATION (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); CHARITIES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON; ATKINSON, GERTRUDE; ATKINSON, JENNIFER GERTRUDE ATKINSON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



499 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

F.C.C. Plans to Authorize Low-Power Radio Stations
Moving to open the radio airwaves to hundreds of small broadcasters, the federal government is planning to approve rules to allow educational, religious and community groups to run inexpensive, low-power FM radio stations. 
 Government officials say the rules, proposed a year ago, hold great promise to transform the airwaves at a time when the rise of broadcasting conglomerates has sharply reduced the diversity of voices. Page A1.
 
Apple Profits Increase 20 Percent
Apple Computer said its earnings rose 20 percent, to $183 million, or $1.03 a diluted share, surpassing analysts' estimates. Apple's board thanked its chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, who has been working for $1 a year, by giving him a $45 million Gulfstream V jet and options for 10 million Apple shares. Shares of Apple rose $2.625, to $106.5625. C8.
 
Nasdaq Up Again as Blue Chips Fade
Stocks were mixed as the Nasdaq set another new high for the year, but blue chips fell. The Nasdaq composite average gained 20.48 points, to 4,151.29, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.76 point, to 1,455.90. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 71.36 points, to 11,489.36. C15.
 
Home Building Rose in December
Construction of new housing rose 7.1 percent in December, closing the best year for housing since 1986. In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said its latest "beige book" review of the economy showed strong business activity throughout the country. C8.
 
A Gift for Reading from Barksdale
Continuing a surge in Internet philanthropy, James L. Barksdale, the former president of Netscape Communications, and his wife, Sally, plan to give $100 million to promote the teaching of reading in their home state of Mississippi, which suffers from the nation's lowest literacy rates. A13.
 
The Advertising Woman of the Year
Abby Kohnstamm, a senior vice president and a member of the executive committee at I.B.M., is one of the few women to reach the higher echelon's of corporate America. Ms. Kohnstamm, who oversees a $1 billion ad and marketing budget, is being named the Advertising Woman of The Year by Advertising Women of New York. Advertising. C13.
 
America Online Doubles Its Income
America Online said its profit more than doubled, to $271 million, or 10 cents a share, beating analysts' forecasts of 8 cents and matching the whisper number. C2.
 
I.B.M. earnings fell 11 percent, but Wall Street had expected even worse and the company's stock moved up to more than $120 in after-hours trading. C2.
 
Changes in Zuckerman's Empire
Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Fred Drasner have made changes at The Daily News and other publications. B14.
 
Suitors for South Korea Automakers
Two insolvent South Korean automakers that spent the 1990's building costly factories, running them inefficiently and wrecking their balance sheets with enormous debts have emerged as sought-after acquisition targets in the latest round of consolidation in the global auto industry. C4.
 
Rosenthal Joining The Daily News
A. M. Rosenthal, who left The New York Times last November after 55 years as a reporter, foreign correspondent, editor and columnist, will be writing a column for The Daily News starting next month. B3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,489.36 down 71.36
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.71% down 0.04
The euro -- $1.0128 up 0.0001
The dollar -- 105.36 yen down 0.36
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Balance of Trade
November figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Expected: -$25.8 billion
 
Graph tracks the daily closing rate of Apple Computers since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); AOL INC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); LITERACY RATES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); RELIGION (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); HOUSING STARTS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



500 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Helmut Kohl, Humbled

 BODY:
Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl's resignation as honorary chairman of his beloved Christian Democrats was forced on him by his own embattled proteges. But it will not stop the unraveling of his own reputation or that of his party. By defiantly flouting his legal obligation to reveal the names of donors to a secret campaign fund, Mr. Kohl compounds the damage he has already caused.
For 16 years Mr. Kohl dominated German politics. He guided the peaceful reunification of his country, helped fashion the political framework for a united Europe and led the way to economic cooperation on the Continent and the adoption of a common currency. But his admission that for years he operated a system of secret accounts to handle undeclared cash donations to his party has dealt a heavy blow to his formidable reputation. Now it threatens to consume the party as well. 
 Prosecutors in Bonn last month opened a preliminary criminal investigation of Mr. Kohl, who has acknowledged that he received more than $1 million in undisclosed political contributions while in office. The former chancellor had stunned Germans in November when he admitted, after previous denials, that he had used illegal bank accounts to channel secret political contributions to local branches of his party. But he has refused to disclose the names of the contributors, citing his "word of honor" not to do so. Mr. Kohl's image as a statesman is rapidly degenerating into that of a corrupt and arrogant machine boss.
The Kohl affair is a reminder that the United States is not the only advanced democracy where the insatiable demands of campaign finance threaten to undermine democracy. Since the reckless fund-raising of the 1996 American presidential campaign, France, Spain, Italy and Britain have all been rocked by fund-raising scandals. It is troubling that this huge scandal is occurring in Germany, which has the most generous system of state financing of political parties in the world -- a result of similar scandals in the 1980's. Clearly, public financing of elections has to be linked to vigorous enforcement.
The current scandal grew out of a public prosecutor's investigation into cash payments of a half-million dollars to party officials linked to an arms export deal with Saudi Arabia. Party officials also allegedly received large sums of money from a French oil company that took over a chemical plant in eastern Germany in 1992.
The widening investigation has exposed extensive deceit in the upper reaches of Mr. Kohl's party. Last week his protege and successor as party leader, Wolfgang Schauble, admitted accepting $52,000 in cash from the same fugitive arms broker who gave secret donations to Mr. Kohl's intermediaries. And yesterday the party said that $4.5 million more in apparently illicit funds had been uncovered. Nobody has yet alleged that the former chancellor benefited personally from secret accounts. But he must not be allowed to hide behind his stature as a statesman. If Mr. Kohl is to salvage his diminished reputation -- and his party's -- he should disclose what he knows. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ETHICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); ARMS TRADE (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



501 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
A Newcomer Hits Washington

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The grand entrance amounted to the capital city's biggest executive deal since the impeachment of President Clinton.
"I have an attitude about the way I win," Michael Jordan said as he took over as president of basketball operations for the struggling Washington Wizards, gleaming with the sort of self-confidence that most politicians can only envy or feign. 
 As Jordan waxed inspirational about "the beauty of trying," the occasion, crammed with more than 35 television cameras and an international press corps, offered the aura of an inaugural, providing this scandal-tattered city a spiritual lift that spread far beyond basketball.
Mayor Anthony Williams was at Jordan's side, emphasizing the civic boost.
"Not just snowstorms, but good things blow in from Chicago," the mayor gratefully declared as the news delighted neighborhoods far and wide where basketball has long been the ultimate street game.
"Michael's coming here, and that's just explosive for this city," said Terence Hobbs, a Jordan wannabe since his grade school labors at backing into imaginary defenders for his version of the 180-turnaround fall-away jump shot that became part of the Jordan signature of pre-eminent success in much more than basketball.
"I'm still doing Mike's stuff," said Hobbs, a 20-year-old point guard on his church league team, the Scripture Cathedral Knights.
"I'll be doing Mike's stuff in Saturday's game," he said, as if Jordan were coming to personally look over his shoulder, not just the collective shoulders of the sagging Wizards.
The city's exuberance at the news that Washington had landed the legendary competitor was no less intense in the downtown office warrens.
"Sports always seems to unite this city and its people of all colors and all backgrounds," said Jimmy Dickson, a building manager two blocks from the White House.
Far more than a mere sports world bulletin, Dickson took the news as a fresh touch of class for the city.
"Imagine a scene where the Russian ambassador gets introduced to Michael Jordan!" he said, fantasizing a new world order.
"Michael's right for this city," he added, grinning happily across a desktop bowl of candy for all the bike messengers who come and go through the day, talking with Dickson of the resilient Redskins, the sorry Wizards and the power of Michael.
"All rise!" someone joked at the MCI Center news conference at premature word of Jordan's advent, as if Chief Justice William Rehnquist were doubling back on some unfinished bit of impeachment.
North of the city's official downtown capital, Tony Mallara hailed the news on Sixth Street with a grin and a pantomime of a Jordan dunk shot. "Mike is ballet; he thinks he can fly and so he can," the 24-year-old pickup player said. "Mike teaches attitude, you know what I'm saying? He is from the heart and we want to see him strong in D.C., talking with the kids and opening a job fair."
Television stations went live to the news conference, as if still another House Speaker were resigning in the face of peccadilloes. Official Washington paused as Jordan was introduced to this city as "the best winner in the world" and "the guy who refuses to lose."
"I used to shoot a basketball through a rim pretty decent," Jordan said as he faced a mob of capital news media and carefully showed the successful candidate's talent for keeping initial expectations within bounds.
At Scripture Cathedral, Bishop Clarence Long, the senior pastor and chief spiritual strategist of the Knights church team, watched the Jordan arrival with open joy.
"This is one of the greatest things that ever happened to D.C.," he said, speaking from 40 years as a neighborhood shepherd. "Michael will bring a lot of excitement to this town. And I'm hoping he will do something special for our youth. I'm talking about 300 to 400 young people, 18 to 30 years of age, in our neighborhood alone. The economic boom has not been grabbing them."
To the side, Bishop Long's son, Ed, grumbled more about the losing state of the Wizards. "They need something," he said, openly wondering whether Jordan might not be miracle enough at the rate the league's better teams have been feeding on the Wizards. "The games lately, I just turn them off. I'd rather watch cartoons."
Bishop Long, entirely up to speed on the street speculation about Jordan making an early deal to send Rod Strickland to the Knicks, cautioned his son against underestimating one of life's true spiritual leaders.
"I think Mike's success will happen instantly," the bishop said.
Then he raised the possibility of the Long family going to a Wizards game some time soon.
"No one else can do it like Mike," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed Long, a fan, said of the Wizards, "They need something."; An elated Tony Mallara, 24, yesterday imitated a Michael Jordan shot and said, "Mike is ballet; he thinks he can fly and so he can." (Photographs by Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON WIZARDS WASHINGTON WIZARDS (90%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON WIZARDS WASHINGTON WIZARDS (90%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (96%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; JORDAN, MICHAEL MICHAEL JORDAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



502 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Russia Sets Date to End Its Campaign in Chechnya
Lt. Gen. Gennadi Troshev said the Russian military intended to bring the campaign in Chechnya to a close by Feb. 26, which would be a month before presidential elections. The announcement came as Russian forces pressed an assault on Grozny. A12
 
Remaking Ulster's Police
Britain said the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the militaristic police force of Northern Ireland, would be reduced in size, have its membership broadened to better reflect the population of the province and have its politically charged name retired. Conservatives in Parliament denounced the decision. A5 

Coalition Forms in Austria
The Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party, the two parties that have long dominated Austrian politics, said they had once again formed a government. The deal means that the right-wing Freedom Party, which came in second in October's elections, will be kept out of the government. A6
 
Mandela on Peace for Burundi
Nelson Mandela outlined his plans and hopes for Burundi to the United Nations Security Council as he took on a new role as mediator and enforcer of a faltering peace agreement. Mr. Mandela asked for help from world leaders, stressing the importance of concerted international action. A9
 
State Department Backs Annan
The Clinton administration said it was "unwise in the extreme" to let the government of Saddam Hussein exercise veto power over United Nations decisions on how to resume arms inspections in Iraq. The United States criticized Security Council members who are blocking Secretary General Kofi Annan's appointment of Rolf Ekeus as the head of a new disarmament commission for Iraq. A12
 
Rabbis Call for Resolution
A group of American rabbis, concerned that the Israel-Palestinian peace talks might collapse over the tangled issue of Jerusalem, called for the two sides to share the city. The statement was issued in part because Yasir Arafat is to meet with President Clinton in Washington to discuss the peace negotiations. A6
 
World Briefing A6
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Trend Seen in Winter Weather
Changes in the Pacific Ocean are making it more likely that winter weather in much of the United States will have unusual warmth alternating with sharp cold, a pattern that may prevail for 20 to 30 years. A1
 
Opposition to Tube Feeding
Nursing homes and hospitals should stop using stomach tubes to feed people with advanced Alzheimer's disease or other types of dementia, according to an article in The New England Journal of Medicine. A13
 
NATIONAL A13-17
 
Clinton Offers Proposal To Help the Uninsured
President Clinton proposed spending $110 billion over the next decade on initiatives to help at least five million people get health insurance. In so doing, he basically endorsed the approach favored by Vice President Al Gore in the Democratic debate over how best to cover the uninsured. A14
 
G.O.P. Quarrel on Tax Plan
Senator John McCain demanded that Gov. George W. Bush stop running a commercial attacking the senator's tax cut plan as hurtful to working people. Bush advisers visited McCain headquarters to scrutinize his tax calculations. A17
 
Script Reviews Abandoned
The White House said it would stop scrutinizing scripts of television shows under a widely criticized financial agreement with the networks that had encouraged them to include antidrug messages in the plots of programs. A15
 
Delay Sought on Missile Plan
Supporters and opponents of an effort to develop a national shield against a limited ballistic missile attack, citing a test failure Tuesday night, joined in asking the Clinton administration to postpone a decision on whether to field the complicated ed antimissile system until after the November elections. A17
 
Tailhook-Navy Reconciliation
The Navy restored its ties with the Tailhook Association, more than eight years after sexual assaults and drunken debauchery at the group's annual convention led to resignations and fines and tarnished the reputation of naval aviators. A13
 
A $100 Million Gift
The former Netscape president, James L. Barksdale, and his wife, Sally, plan to give $100 million to promote the teaching of reading in their home state, which has the nation's lowest literacy rates. A13
 
Resurgence of Union Rolls
Union membership rose faster last year than at any time in the past two decades -- climbing by 265,000, to 16.5 million, with growth coming not just among government workers but also among workers in private business, where membership plunged in recent decades. A13
 
Arguing Rights of Protesters
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether a Colorado law intended to protect patients and staff members at abortion clinics from intimidation and verbal harassment went too far in limiting demonstrators' right to free speech. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
Police File Murder Charge 25 Years After Girl's Death
The police in Greenwich, Conn., charged Michael Skakel, 39, a nephew of Ethel Kennedy, with the murder of a 15-year-old girl, Martha Moxley, in October 1975. A1
 
3 Die in Dormitory Fire
Three students were killed and dozens of people were injured in an early morning fire at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J. A1
 
$20 Million Raised So Far
Mayor Giuliani's Senate campaign said it had raised $12 million; Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign responded that it had $8 million. B1
 
Mrs. Clinton answered questions on her marriage and personal life. B8
 
Pretrial Rulings in Diallo Case
A judge granted lawyers for four police officers accused of murdering Amadou Diallo access to some possibly helpful witness statements but denied access to one witness who could prove crucial. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
EDUCATION 
 
New Chancellor's First Day
Harold O. Levy said his top priority as interim city schools chancellor would be to ensure that rigorous new regents standards are met. B1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Jordan Buys Into Wizards
The former Chicago Bulls star Michael Jordan joined the Washington Wizards as a part-owner and president of basketball operations. D1
 
Pro Makes Tour in a Cart
Casey Martin, who sued the PGA Tour to use a golf cart because of a leg condition, shot a four-under-par 68 at the Bob Hope Classic in his debut as a PGA Tour member. D1
 
OBITUARIES B14-15
 
Hedy Lamarr
The Viennese beauty who became a reigning Hollywood temptress in the 1930's and 40's was 86. B15
 
Bettino Craxi
The first Socialist to serve as prime minister in postwar Italy, but who fell into disgrace as an emblem of political corruption, was 65. B14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
Low-Power FM Radio Stations
The F.C.C. plans to approve rules today that would let nonprofit groups operate inexpensive, noncommercial, low-power FM radio stations with ranges up to seven miles. A1
 
Seeking a Merger Partner
Warner-Lambert and American Home Products, seeking to ward off Pfizer's takeover offer, were said to be casting about for other suitors, including Procter & Gamble. C1
 
Competition for Intel
Transmeta announced a microprocessor design that is compatible with Intel products but costs less and uses less power than other chips. C1
 
Fed Ends Rate Bias Policy
The Fed will replace its practice of declaring a policy bias toward raising or reducing interest rates with an assessment of inflation risks. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
ARTS E1-12
 
DuPont Awards Announced
Bill Moyers and his production company, Public Affairs Television, won the duPont Awards' highest honor for a two-hour documentary on PBS on efforts by South Africans to heal the wounds left by apartheid. E3
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Helmut Kohl, humbled; Senator Torricelli's latest deals; giving Mr. Levy a chance; bitter cold.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E10
 
TV Listings E12
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D8
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); BURUNDI (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (52%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); BURUNDI (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (52%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VETO (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); DISARMAMENT (67%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); TRENDS (66%); DEMENTIA (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); NURSING HOMES (64%); RELIGION (63%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (63%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



503 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Official of Netscape Starts $100 Million Drive for Literacy

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Continuing a surge in Internet philanthropy, James L. Barksdale, the former president of the Netscape Communications Corporation, and his wife, Sally, plan to give $100 million to promote the teaching of reading in their home state, Mississippi, which has the nation's lowest literacy rates.
The gift, which the Barksdales will announce on Thursday, is thought by authorities on philanthropy to be by far the largest ever made in the field of literacy. Because the donation will establish an institute at the University of Mississippi, it is also one of the five largest donations by a private individual or foundation to a public university, according to rankings maintained by The Chronicle of Higher Education. The Barksdales are graduates of the University of Mississippi. 
 The Barksdales' gift will transfer some of the immense wealth being generated in Silicon Valley to a region that has largely been left behind by the vibrant new economy of the information age. And it will seek to redress the persistent failure of government to overcome the poverty and racial inequity that have led to decades of social and economic stagnation in Mississippi.
The gift places Mr. Barksdale, who is 56, in the company of a growing number of technology entrepreneurs and financiers who are embracing philanthropy at a relatively young age. The group is led by the Microsoft Corporation chairman William H. Gates, 44, the world's richest man and the benefactor of a $17 billion charitable foundation. It also includes Jim Clark, 55, the founder of Netscape; Steve Kirsch, 43, the founder of Infoseek, and Jeff Skoll, 34, the founder of eBay.
The Barksdales' money will create an endowment that will finance a variety of reading programs for Mississippi children in kindergarten through third grade. It will provide intensive training in reading education to current and aspiring elementary school teachers at universities around the state. It will also be used to provide special help to underachieving students in the state's most needy schools, often by holding classes after school, by offering summer classes and by training parents in reading instruction.
In addition, proceeds from the endowment will enable elementary schools to buy books, software and instructional materials for several proven reading programs. Within five years, 200 of the state's 521 elementary schools are expected to benefit from the money, said Dr. Richard L. Thompson, Mississippi's superintendent of education.
"This really is an incredible shot of adrenaline for our state," said Dr. Thompson, who noted that the state did not have compulsory school attendance or publicly financed kindergarten until 1985. "This is going to give us hope for that jump start where we can make an incredible amount of improvement."
Mr. Barksdale, a native of Jackson, Miss., said in a telephone interview that he hoped his gift would inspire philanthropic efforts to create similar programs elsewhere.
Mr. Barksdale, who characterized his net worth as "north of $700 million," said he and his wife, who have three children, planned to donate all their wealth, adding, "When we die, if there's a dollar left it's because I've miscalculated."
The Barksdales have been generous contributors to the University of Mississippi in recent years. In 1996, they gave $5.4 million to start an undergraduate honors college at the main Oxford campus. Last year, they gave $2 million for scholarships to blacks attending the university's medical school. The literacy gift, however, will be the largest ever given by the Barksdales and the largest ever received by the university.
"What makes me tear up," said Robert C. Khayat, the university's chancellor, "is that this really does address one of the major challenges we face as a society, and that's what higher education should be doing and what private wealth should be doing. My sense is that the measure of wealth is moving from how much is a person worth to how much does a person give."
Mr. Barksdale made most of his money last year when Netscape, the maker of the Internet browser, was sold to America Online. He had held top jobs at Federal Express and McCaw Cellular Communications.
After enjoying remarkable growth in the mid-1990's, Netscape faltered in its competition with Microsoft, making it an appealing target for acquisition. It was Mr. Barksdale's Netscape that first petitioned the Justice Department in 1996 to investigate whether Microsoft had created an illegal monopoly by packaging its own browser for free with its Windows software. Last year, a federal judge issued a preliminary ruling against Microsoft after a lengthy trial in which Mr. Barksdale was the government's lead witness.
Mr. Barksdale now works from his home in Aspen, Colo., helping to manage a new California venture capital firm that invests in Internet projects. The Barksdales, who have three children, are building a house in Jackson, Miss.
Like many counterparts in the technology sector, Mr. Barksdale became deeply concerned about the country's schools after struggling to find qualified workers for his companies. . "Our core problem with our children learning," he said, "is that they don't know how to read. That's true all over the country."
The literacy problem in Mississippi is stunning even to state officials. A 1998 study conducted for the National Institute for Literacy concluded that 30 percent of the state's population, age 16 and above, would have significant difficulty locating an intersection on a street map, filling out a Social Security card application or finding two pieces of information in a sports article.
That rate was the highest for any state of what the study classified as Level 1 literacy, the lowest of five possible levels. An additional 34 percent were classified as Level 2, with just marginally higher skills.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Barksdale's gift is believed the largest ever for literacy. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP AOL INC (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (67%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; PHILANTHROPY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (72%); LITERACY RATES (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (63%); RANKINGS (55%); 

PERSON: BARKSDALE, JAMES L; BARKSDALE, SALLY; SACK, KEVIN JEFF SKOLL (58%); BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



504 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Landmark to Be Repaired

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
A developer has signed an agreement to renovate part of the abandoned G. Fox building, one of Hartford's best-known structures and a symbol of the city's economic plight.
The developer, 960 Main L.L.C., made a $425,000 purchase deposit to the city on Tuesday and committed to the state to do the renovations, removing what appears to be the last obstacle to Capital Community College's relocating from the West End to the G. Fox building, said Chuck Sheehan, deputy commissioner of the State Department of Public Works. 
 The developer still has to sign a contract with the city to buy the rear 60 percent of the building, but Kevin Dubay, Hartford's corporation counsel, said he expected both sides to sign it within days.
Mr. Sheehan said the agreements meant that the college project was on schedule for a fall 2001 opening on Main Street.
The city, which took ownership of the old department store after it closed early in 1993, has been eager to find a private buyer.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NINE SIXTY MAIN LLC G FOX (74%); CAPITAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE (55%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NINE SIXTY MAIN LLC CAPITAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE (55%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; G FOX BUILDING (HARTFORD, CONN) BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); RELOCATIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); 

PERSON: CHUCK SHEEHAN (80%); KEVIN DUBAY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



505 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
State's Jobless Rate Drops

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate dipped to 4.1 percent in December, from 4.4 percent in November, capping a year in which the rate never topped 5 percent, the State Labor Department reported on Tuesday.
The December rate matched the 4.1 percent national unemployment rate, a goal Gov. Christine Todd Whitman had set. It also matched February for the lowest rate of 1999. Before that, New Jersey unemployment had not dipped to that level since July 1989. 
 State employers also added 9,400 jobs to their payrolls in December, seasonally adjusted, making it the year's best month for job growth. That brought the total number of new jobs last year to 65,300, a strong figure but still below the 76,200 created in 1998.
Of the 65,300 increase in jobs for 1999, 36,100 -- about 55 percent -- were in the generally lower-paying service sector. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE LABOR DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LABOR DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



506 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Full Hospitals

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Jan. 16 news article about Canada's overflowing hospitals suggests that the problem could be cured simply by spending more money on health care. If, like Americans, Canadians devoted 14 percent rather than 9.5 percent of their gross domestic product to health care, they could have anything Americans have in health care, and more. 
 One must wonder, though, whether Canadians are making good use of the hospital beds they have. Roughly 12 percent of the population in Canada and in the United States are hospitalized every year. Canadian patients, however, stay in the hospital much longer per admission (12 days in Canada versus 7.8 in the United States). A first step toward ridding the Canadian hospitals' hallways of waiting patients might be to use the existing bed-capacity more smartly.
UWE E. REINHARDT
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 16, 2000
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Princeton University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (73%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE HOSPITALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: REINHARDT, UWE E (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000



507 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 29; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3319 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on Page 10.
 
Now Playing
 
* "AMERICAN BEAUTY," starring Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Chris Cooper, Wes Bentley and Thora Birch. Written by Alan Ball. Directed by Sam Mendes (R, 116 minutes). With heavenly finesse Mr. Spacey plays a buttoned-down 42-year-old suburbanite who flips his lid for a teenage cheerleader. And he never gets it back on. The midlife crisis motif is familiar, but the stage director Sam Mendes brings terrific visual flair and dry humor to this barbecuing of the bourgeoisie. All the actors display coolly expert timing, especially Ms. Bening as the antihero's grasping wife. Although the story spreads itself thin among many characters, the film coalesces for a devastating finale (Janet Maslin). 

"ANGELA'S ASHES," starring Emily Watson, Robert Carlyle, Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens and Michael Legge. Directed by Alan Parker (R, 120 minutes). Anyone who thinks poverty is not pretty would have to think twice after seeing this artfully desolate-looking film version of Frank McCourt's boyhood memoir. The movie describes dire suffering alongside inspiring, uplifting episodes. Directed reverently by Mr. Parker, it parades forth a series of familiar anecdotes from Mr. McCourt's book without taking on much weight. This is the kind of film about hardship in which nobody has indoor plumbing, but everybody has clean hair (Maslin).
 
* "ANY GIVEN SUNDAY," starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, James Woods and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Oliver Stone (R, 160 minutes). Mr. Stone's brawling, hyper-macho professional football film has enough in-the-thick-of-it playing-field action to satisfy the fantasies of most armchair players. In the style of Mr. Stone's "Wall Street," the movie is also a crude morality play that pits the old ways against the new with the veteran coach Tony D'Amato (Mr. Pacino) embodying tradition and a young hotshot quarterback, Willie Beamen (Mr. Foxx), the new. Although the acting is uneven (Ms. Diaz is disappointing as a tough team owner), and the final scenes are shamelessly "Rocky"-ish, the movie delivers a credible, action-charged vision of the frenzied world of professional sports as a metaphor for the volatility of American culture (Stephen Holden).
 
"BICENTENNIAL MAN," starring Robin Williams, Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neill and Oliver Platt. Directed by Chris Columbus (PG, 132 minutes). This gushy Robin Williams star vehicle follows the 200-year quest of a household robot named Andrew to become human. Directed by the schmaltzmeister Chris Columbus, who steered this star through "Mrs. Doubtfire," the movie is a joke-strewn, sentimental man-machine allegory determined to make us feel good about being human. Corny speeches exalting freedom, the joys of sex and the mystery of mortality punctuate the tale. Except for Mr. Williams, the acting is strictly of sitcom caliber (Holden).
 
* "BOYS DON'T CRY," starring Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Directed by Kimberly Peirce (R, 114 minutes). This stunning debut feature tells the strange and resonant story of Brandon Teena, who despite being born Teena Brandon went on to create a charismatic identity as a young man. Brandon's ultimately wrenching tale may sound tabloid-ready, but on screen it turns into Theodore Dreiser's idea of American tragedy. The film makes it hauntingly real and even tenderly romantic, with the astonishing acting needed to make it work. One of last year's best (Maslin).
 
* "THE CIDER HOUSE RULES," starring Tobey Maguire, Charlize Theron and Delroy Lindo. Directed by Lasse Hallstrom (PG-13, 125 minutes). Radically downsized in scope, and its examination of the issue of abortion greatly softened, John Irving's sixth novel (with a Dickensian screenplay by the author) has been turned into a lovely World War II-era fable about a young man venturing out into the world. Mr. Maguire is Homer Wells, a doleful innocent raised in an orphanage by Dr. Wilbur Larch (Michael Caine), who performs abortions. Fleeing the institution with a golden young couple (Ms. Theron and Paul Rudd), he becomes an apple picker. Sentimental but smart, the movie has the sweetness and narrative drive of a 1940's "David Copperfield" (Holden).
 
"CRADLE WILL ROCK," starring Emily Watson, John Turturro and Vanessa Redgrave. Written and directed by Tim Robbins (R, 132 minutes). This huge Depression-era story features well-known figures from Orson Welles to Nelson Rockefeller to Diego Rivera, and it works them into an ambitious "Ragtime"-like tableau. Though too many figures in this landscape are reduced to naive caricature, Mr. Robbins and his impressive cast bring strong passions to bear upon this (mostly) true story of a legendary event: the trouble-fraught production, by Welles and John Houseman, of Marc Blitzstein's banner-waving 1936 agitprop musical "The Cradle Will Rock." Mr. Robbins and his cast play out all sides of this event with the certitude that its importance lives on (Maslin).
 
* "THE END OF THE AFFAIR," starring Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, Stephen Rea and Ian Hart. Directed by Neil Jordan (R, 105 minutes). Mr. Jordan's intoxicating version of Graham Greene's 1951 novel, in which an illicit affair becomes a far greater gamble than either lover could have imagined. For this fearlessly eclectic filmmaker, this is one more intelligent, brooding love story with a secret twist. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Moore breathe life into it with a dreamy, erotic intensity that in no way trivializes the film's underlying ideas about religious faith. Period detail (the setting is London in the mid-1940's) is sumptuously heightened by the inspired costume designer Sandy Powell ("Shakespeare in Love") (Maslin).
 
"FANTASIA/2000," with James Levine and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and introductions by Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Mr. Levine, Itzhak Perlman, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury, Quincy Jones and Penn and Teller. Various directors (G, 75 minutes). The new millennial version of Disney's 1940 groundbreaking fusion of animation and classical music includes seven new segments and keeps one from the original film (the wonderful "Sorcerer's Apprentice," starring Mickey Mouse). Despite the science-fiction title and the Imax-size screen on which it is shown, "Fantasia/2000" is more backward-looking than futuristic. The two best segments are "Rhapsody in Blue," a witty Manhattan-in-the-Jazz-Age homage to the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld set to the music of Gershwin, and the finale (set to Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite") in which a cometlike sprite whooshes around the globe explosively creating, destroying and renewing the planet's life forms. Movie star introductions lend the film the feel of a deluxe corporate promotion. At the Sony Imax Theater, Broadway at 68th Street, Manhattan (Holden).
 
"GALAXY QUEST," starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman. Directed by Dean Parisot (PG, 102 minutes). Whether you love "Star Trek" or laugh at it, your starship has come in, docking in the form of this amiable comedy that simultaneously manages to spoof these popular futuristic space adventures and replicate the very elements that have made them so durable. The film spins out of a single joke, about a bunch of washed-up actors from a canceled television series who are enlisted by some credulous interplanetary simpletons to champion them in a conflict with a scaly, bellicose villain who has all but exterminated their people. And soon they are off on a genuine space adventure. If "Galaxy Quest" never attains consistently giddy heights as it plays out its combination of knowing satire and heroic adventure, it keeps its tongue firmly in its cheek, offers a few genuine laughs, moves swiftly if not at warp speed, and is led by a talented cast (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
"GIRL, INTERRUPTED," starring Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie. Directed by James Mangold (R, 120 minutes). Except for being several years too old for the role, Winona Ryder, an actress who oozes high-strung intelligence, is ideally cast as Susanna Kaysen, a precollege-age girl who lands in a Cambridge mental institution in 1967 after a halfhearted suicide attempt. (The movie is based on Ms. Kaysen's memoir.) The period details are perfect, and Ms. Ryder has the courage to make her character a pain in the neck. But the small, introspective movie is nearly stolen by Ms. Jolie as a charismatic, brutally truth-telling sociopath who becomes Susanna's best friend (Holden).
 
"THE GREEN MILE," starring Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan, David Morse, Doug Hutchison, Sam Rockwell and Bonnie Hunt. Written and directed by Frank Darabont (R, 180 minutes). In adapting the death row drama that Stephen King wrote in multiple installments, the director of "The Shawshank Redemption" could have managed more economy and fewer talky bits of business around the cellblock. Still, this lengthy film is vivid and well played. Smooth ensemble acting builds up to the discovery that a gigantic condemned man (Mr. Duncan) is a prisoner with very special abilities, which gives the film its mixture of religious overtones and mild horror. Mr. Hanks, as a wry Southern prison guard, is so unaffectedly good that it's redundant to say so (Maslin).
 
"HOLY SMOKE," starring Kate Winslet and Harvey Keitel. Directed by Jane Campion (R, 95 minutes). Having roamed so gorgeously through North Africa as a young hippie mother in "Hideous Kinky," Ms. Winslet this time appears in India as Ruth Barron, a headstrong young Australian seeking enlightenment. Eventually Ruth's mother coaxes her home, where a "cult exiter" named P. J. (Mr. Keitel) is waiting to wean Ruth away from her Indian guru. But as the film moves from its early mix of rapture and humor into this more serious, confrontational stage, it runs into trouble. It doesn't help that Ms. Winslet's obvious strength and beauty leave Mr. Keitel's P. J. looking overmatched (Maslin).
 
* "THE HURRICANE," starring Denzel Washington. Directed by Norman Jewison (R, 120 minutes). The life story of Rubin (Hurricane) Carter, a middleweight contender who spent nearly 20 years in prison for a triple murder he didn't commit, is a big, schmaltzy ballad of a movie redeemed by Mr. Washington's moving, bone-deep portrayal of the boxer from Paterson, N.J. But the movie plays fast and loose with the facts, giving far too much credit to the members of a Canadian commune who took up Mr. Carter's cause and all but eliminating his heroic codefendant John Artis from the story. And the minor characters are either saints or monsters. Yet the story of a man heroically fighting his demons and winning his freedom is still inspiring (Holden).
 
* "THE INSIDER," starring Al Pacino, Russell Crowe and Christopher Plummer. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 155 minutes). Mr. Mann directs this taut thriller about the tobacco industry whistle-blower Jeffrey Wigand with pulse-quickening panache. And he illustrates why, in the corporate climate of the 90's, truth-telling is a riskier business than it was circa "All the President's Men." While Mr. Pacino delivers galvanizing moral outrage as a producer for "60 Minutes," and Mr. Plummer wickedly mimics Mike Wallace, Mr. Crowe movingly captures the complexity of Mr. Wigand's situation. Shaky docudrama ethics cloud the film's take on "60 Minutes." But this is an inordinately well-played thriller, with Mr. Mann's stylistic brio at its best (Maslin).
 
"MAGNOLIA," starring Tom Cruise, Melinda Dillon, Philip Seymour Hoffman, William H. Macy, Julianne Moore, John C. Reilly and Jason Robards. Written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson (R, 180 minutes). In "Magnolia" the colossally talented Mr. Anderson has set up an artfully orchestrated symphony of intersecting L.A. stories, with many of the cast members from his "Boogie Nights" assembled to form a charismatic ensemble. The movie is saved from its own worst ideas by the intimacy of the performances. Its single biggest surprise is Tom Cruise in the role of a strutting, obscenity-spouting cult figure named Frank Mackey (Maslin).
 
"MAN ON THE MOON," starring Jim Carrey and Danny DeVito . Directed by Milos Forman (R, 118 minutes). Andy Kaufman: genius or creep? This biography takes the more positive view and minimizes the kinkier aspects of Kaufman's misanthropic performance art, preferring a big, vibrant collection of greatest hits. Mr. Carrey channels his character brilliantly and makes his material funnier and tighter than it was in fact. And Mr. Forman directs with the same enthusiasm for outlaw Americana that he brought to "The People vs. Larry Flynt." But the writers, who also wrote that film and "Ed Wood," can't easily find an unself-conscious side of the late comic artist to work with. This feels like the authorized version. It has no real answer to the question of who Kaufman was and how he got that way (Maslin).
 
"SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS," starring Ethan Hawke, James Cromwell and Max Von Sydow. Directed by Scott Hicks (PG-13, 130 minutes). This director's follow-up to "Shine" is the cinematic equivalent of an arty coffee-table book. It is so busy illustrating the story (with elaborate flashbacks and montage sequences) that it forgets to be dramatic. Set in the Pacific Northwest in 1950, the movie looks back to World War II and the charged relationships between Japanese-Americans and whites on an island north of Puget Sound. Mr. Hawke is the brooding reporter covering the trial and Mr. Von Sydow the defense lawyer who is the film's official conscience. Robert Richardson is responsible for the gorgeous cinematography (Holden).
 
* "STUART LITTLE," starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and Jonathan Lipnicki. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 92 minutes). E. B. White's 1945 children's classic has been adapted into a lovely family film about a little mouse (with the voice of Michael J. Fox) who is adopted by humans but runs afoul of their fluffy white Persian cat, Snowbell (Nathan Lane). The movie creates an enchanted storybook version of New York and has what may be the most exciting toy-boat race (in Central Park) ever filmed. Thanks to Mr. Lane's sly, wise-guy vocal impersonation, Snowbell nearly steals a movie that is funny and sweet but never cloying (Holden).
 
"SWEET AND LOWDOWN," starring Sean Penn, Samantha Morton and Uma Thurman. Directed by Woody Allen (PG-13, 95 minutes). In homage to the kind of jaunty 1930's jazz that has been heard on many of his other films' soundtracks, Mr. Allen imagines a consummate jazz character: Emmet Ray (played with gusto by Mr. Penn), who can play the guitar as gorgeously as Django Reinhardt but lacks certain interpersonal skills when it comes to his private life. Borrowing attributes of various real musicians, the film turns Emmet into another one of Mr. Allen's cad-geniuses and gives him a long-suffering mute laundress as a sweetheart. (Ms. Morton works miracles in her wordless role.) But on the storytelling level, the film remains flimsy. It's the musical interludes, frequent and lovingly presented, that keep it alive (Maslin).
 
* "THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY," starring Matt Damon, Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Cate Blanchett and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Written and directed by Anthony Minghella (R, 135 minutes). There are diabolically smart surprises wherever you care to look in this glittering thriller. Proving that the brilliance of "The English Patient" was no fluke, Mr. Minghella shapes a hypnotic, sensually charged adaptation of Patricia High smith's fascinatingly reptilian murder story. The traffic-stopping cast includes Mr. Damon as the dangerous chameleon of the title and, in a star-making role, the English actor Jude Law as a rich dilettante who exerts a homoerotic magnetism. Ms. Paltrow plays the odd woman out with the shrewdness of a fine character actress, while Ms. Blanchett makes the delirious most of her role as a needy American post-debutante. As the story's odious playboy-snob, Mr. Hoffman is scene-stealingly wonderful. Gorgeously photographed in Italy by John Seale (Maslin).
 
* "TITUS," starring Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange and Alan Cumming. Directed by Julie Taymor (R, 160 minutes). Ms. Taymor, the theater director and puppeteer who created transfixing stage pictures in "The Lion King" and "Juan Darien," has turned Shakespeare's goriest tragedy, "Titus Andronicus," into a powerful contemplation of murderous revenge enacted throughout history. Mr. Hopkins is ghoulishly funny and tragic as the title character, whose political stupidity sets in motion a devastating chain reaction of killing, torture and retaliation. Ms. Lange is Tamora, the captured Goth empress who strikes back. Although the movie's British theatrical and American film acting styles don't mesh, Ms. Taymor's vision is realized with a shattering force in time-traveling imagery that blends ancient Rome with Mussolini's Italy and contemporary cyberpunk flash (Holden).
 
* "TOPSY-TURVY," starring Allan Corduner and Jim Broadbent. Directed by Mike Leigh (R, 161 minutes). Mr. Leigh's grandly entertaining "Topsy-Turvy" is one of those films that create a mix of erudition, pageantry and delectable acting opportunities, much as "Shakespeare in Love" did last year. Instead of a love-struck young playwright, it presents the curiously matched personalities of the librettist William Schwenk Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan in the midst of a robust, knowing, frequently hilarious look at the musical theater over which they held sway (Maslin).
 
* "TOY STORY 2," with the voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen. Directed by John Lasseter; a Pixar Animated Studios film (G, 98 minutes). A wonderfully playful sequel, sustaining the first film's wit and novelty while bringing new sophistication to computer-generated animation. And here is welcome proof that Hollywood can still make movies to please audiences of any age or persuasion. From its opening (a perfectly adorable "Star Wars" parody) to its Capra-esque conclusion, this is a seamless work with more metaphorical cleverness than that usually found in the toy bin. Colorful new characters and more adventurous action enhance the story of how Woody falls into the clutches of a sleazy toy dealer, experiences newfound celebrity and needs to be rescued by his old friends (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"THE AMERICAN PLACE: LANDSCAPE IN THE EARLY WESTERN (AND A FEW LATER CLASSICS)." An opportunity for a new look at the Old West is at hand at the Museum of Modern Art, where a monthlong series highlighted by early westerns began yesterday. Spanning the history of the genre, the series features more than 50 films in 30 programs, including works that extend from Edwin Porter, D. W. Griffith, Thomas H. Ince, John Ford, Charles Chaplin and Allan Dwan to Victor Fleming, Victor Seastrom, Sam Peckinpah, Mel Brooks, Clint Eastwood and Jim Jarmusch. One half of a choice double bill this weekend consists of "The Great Train Robbery" (1903), Porter's 11-minute seminal work about a deadly holdup, with the woods of New Jersey substituting for the wild West. The other half is "The Wild Bunch" (1969), Peckinpah's violent chronicle of the adventures of a band of outlaws who have outlived their time. The films will be shown at 2 p.m. on Sunday. Continuing through Feb. 24, at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, the series is free with museum admission: $10 for adults, $6.50 for students and people 65 or older; free for visitors under 16 accompanied by an adult. Pay what you wish on Fridays from 4:30 to 8:30 P.M. Information: (212) 708-9400 (Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Macho mystique: From left, Dennis Quaid, Jamie Foxx and Al Pacino in "Any Given Sunday." (Robert Zuckerman/Warner Brothers); Farewell, enlightenment, hello, emus and oddballs: Kate Winslet in Jane Campion's "Holy Smoke." (Gerald Jenkins/Miramax Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); 

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (79%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



508 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 48; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: FAMILY FARE

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber 

 BODY:

The Artist As a Young Girl
Like beauty, art is often in the eye of the beholder. For adult artists -- say, those represented in the Saatchi Collection -- this is a lesson to take in stride. For a fourth-grade painter, however, it's difficult. 
 Take the heroine of "Noonie's Masterpiece in Purple." Noonie says she is a misunderstood genius whose art will be celebrated in a hundred years. But while Noonie may sound egotistical, she needs approval, and long before the next century.
It's not hard to see why. Noonie's mother died years ago, and her father is busy traveling. In the meantime, Noonie lives with relatives who seem to have come from a Roald Dahl novel. Her Uncle Ralph is a smarmy unemployed car salesman; her Aunt Sylvia is an obsessive dental hygienist who could have had a supporting role in "Marathon Man." Her sadistic cousin, Junior, "thinks he's an action figure," and her babysitter, Beverly, prefers doughnuts and soap operas to Noonie.
"Noonie's Masterpiece," by Lisa Railsback, which won several regional awards in children's theater, explores how Noonie learns to be true to her art and to herself. Entering a school contest, Noonie enthusiastically paints her bizarre clan not as they look but as she sees them. "They'll love it, and then they'll love me," she proclaims.
Her philistine relatives loathe the portrait. But with help from the spirits of Picasso, van Gogh and Georgia O'Keeffe, Noonie gains the confidence to be unafraid not only in her art but also in her relationships.
Presented by the Looking Glass Theater under Jennifer Goodlander's direction, "Noonie's Masterpiece" is an engrossing hour for children over 6. (It's far too cerebral for preschoolers.) The issues are poignant, and although the adult characters sometimes seem like cartoons, the children are sympathetic. This is especially true of Noonie, played by Madeleine Mager. She's one artist I'd be happy to have in my family, not to mention on my walls.
"Noonie's Masterpiece in Purple," through Feb. 20 at the Looking Glass Theater, 422 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-9467. Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m.; Mondays and Tuesdays at 7 p.m. Adults, $8; children, $5. Reservations advised.
 
In Good Company
Just when you thought all the hoopla was over, another Y2K celebration is about to take place. But there's good reason: this event heralds something that is almost as rare as the arrival of the new millennium.
The Y2Kids' Cafe Intergenerational Festival 2000, tomorrow and Sunday, will be the debut of Kids' Company, a children's repertory dance troupe that is neither the junior division of an adult company nor the offshoot of a classical ballet school.
Founded by Dancewave Inc., a Brooklyn organization, the company will focus on modern dance, working with professional choreographers.
"We want a company rooted in who kids are -- not exact technicians who come from a ballet school," said Diane Jacobowitz, the director. "In that sense, I think this company is totally unique to New York City."
In its first venture, Kids' Company has found the ideal iconoclastic mentor: Mark Morris. This weekend, it will present excerpts of his "Allegro il Penseroso ed il Moderato," choreographed to a score by Handel.
The other performers will include Movin' Spirits Dance Theater; Risa Jaraslow and Dancers; and Dmitrij and Diniil Simkin, a father and son from Germany. The Circus Amok Band will play, and Hilary Chaplain, a clown, will provide light moments.
Y2Kids' Cafe Intergenerational Festival, tomorrow and Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Brooklyn Music School and Playhouse, 126 St. Felix Street, Fort Greene. Tickets, $10. Reservations required, (212) 924-0077.
 
Pridelands Revisited
There's another Lion King in town. And his name isn't Simba.
Still, "Sundiata, the Lion King of Mali," a new musical from Theaterworks/USA, won't disappoint Disney fans. Like its predecessor, this "Lion King" features fraternal rivalry, family betrayal and a reluctant young heir to the throne. It even has splendid animal masks and puppets, designed by Barbara Pollitt.
But while Disney's "Lion King" has often been described as a child's version of "Hamlet," "Sundiata," based on a West African legend, is more like a sunny "Macbeth."
At the play's start, the Lion Spirit prophesies that the aging king of Mali will have a new son who will triumph over the evil sorcerer Sumanguru. When the strange child, Sundiata, is born -- he has a lion's head and a human body -- his ambitious older brother, Dankaran, despairs. Sumanguru, disguised, appears to Dankaran and tells him that he is destined to be the true ruler.
No one, however, is pushed off a cliff. Dankaran uses Sundiata's natural shyness and timidity to convince his brother that he doesn't have what it takes to be king. But after wandering among some real lions, Sundiata learns that the courage to lead isn't based on empty displays of power.
Directed by David Schechter, who also wrote the book, "Sundiata" has a talented cast and a score that's pure energy (in contrast to Elton John and Tim Rice's pure pop). Scott Davenport Richards's music (with additional songs by Kirsten Childs) offers African drumbeats, jazzy riffs and rhythms to get children on their feet. This may be a small-scale "Lion King," but it still knows how to roar.
"Sundiata, the Lion King of Mali," tomorrow and Sunday (and March 11 and 12) at 12:30 p.m. at the Auditorium at Equitable Tower, 787 Seventh Avenue, between 51st and 52nd Streets, Manhattan, (212) 627-7373. For children over 5. Tickets, $19.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madeleine Mager, appearing in "Noonie's Masterpiece in Purple." (Kenneth Nowell/Looking Glass Theater)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IN GOOD CO AB (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); CHILDREN (89%); MILLENNIUM (89%); THEATER (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FAMILY (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); DANCE (66%); FESTIVALS (62%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL ROALD DAHL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



509 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Speaks Softly, With Big Stick

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
PITY Alan Greenspan. Suddenly the talk around Wall Street is that the Federal Reserve just doesn't have the power it once had over the economy. The Fed has raised interest rates three times, and the economy -- and the stock market -- just keep rolling along. Interest rates are no longer important.
If such talk brings on a feeling of deja vu, it may be because you remember the days of 1991 and 1992, when this economic expansion was young and widely derided as weak and fragile. Then the talk was of "profitless growth" and "pushing on a string." The Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy were faltering. 
 In fact, the economy has changed, and there probably is a longer lag before the Fed can have a major impact. But the Fed is far from impotent. If Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues really want to slow the economy, they can. And it appears that Mr. Greenspan wants to do just that; he just doesn't want to take the blame for it.
At least that is the way I read the most intriguing part of his speech to the Economic Club of New York a week ago. In it he pointed out that consumption is rising much faster than incomes or productivity, and attributed a large part of that to the booming stock market and the feeling of wealth that it has produced.
That cannot last, he said: "What will stop the wealth-induced excess of demand over productivity-expanded supply is largely developments in financial markets."
In other words, it is the markets that will slow the economy, not vice versa. "He sees rising interest rates as the force that will ultimately cap the equity market's advance, contain equity wealth effects, and thereby rein in excess demand," said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company.
Mr. Greenspan would like us to think that he is a passive observer, with the market raising long-term rates and the Fed just following along. He would like to avoid being blamed for bringing down the stock market, so he avoids talk about overvaluation and thus reassures investors.
But there are signs that the Fed's medicine (or is it the bond market's?) is starting to work. Much of the stock market is stuttering, although technology stocks have recovered from their early-January swoon and are setting records. There is unprecedented volatility within the stock market, as the Dow Jones industrial average plunges while the Nasdaq composite zooms, or vice versa. There have been just six days in the last decade when one of those indexes rose at least 1 percent while the other fell by that amount. Four of them were in the last two months.
Technology mutual funds have taken in $12.7 billion from investors since mid-November, reports AMG Data Services, while the rest of the equity-fund universe received just $4.5 billion. "I've never seen it this concentrated," said Bob Adler, AMG's founder. "Technology is the only focus." The trade deficit sets new records each month, as wealth-effect-driven consumption pulls in imports.
The yield on 10-year Treasuries has climbed from 5.9 percent to 6.8 percent since mid-November, while the Nasdaq composite is up 30 percent. You can take that as evidence that the Fed cannot stop this runaway economy, or the technology bull market. Or you can agree with the wisdom of the late economist Herbert Stein, as quoted by Mr. Greenspan: "If a trend cannot continue, it will stop."
Mr. Greenspan thinks interest rates will rise enough to offset, if not end, the wealth effect. Do you want to bet he is wrong?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: The graph shows the yield of 10-year Treasury bonds since November 1999.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; HOENIG & CO; HOENIG & CO HOENIG & CO INC (64%); HOENIG & CO LTD (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; HOENIG & CO; HOENIG & CO FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; GREENSPAN, ALAN; BARBERA, ROBERT J ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



510 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
That Forbes Allure

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

DATELINE: BOONE, Iowa

 BODY:
A minor mystery in the current presidential campaign involves the people who turn out to listen to Steve Forbes's speeches.
The mystery would be why. 
 As a candidate, Mr. Forbes is a guy in a suit who works a room as if he were proctoring a test. Thanks to his extraordinarily immobile features, he always looks precisely the same from nose upward, no matter what his mood. Offstage, he hardly seems to exist. His staff sort of carts him away when the speeches are over, and there are no Steve Forbes anecdotes, either charming or chilling. He has spent more than $60 million over the last four years trying to buy his way into the presidential race, but he doesn't even seem to dabble in conspicuous consumption. During his most recent Iowa swing, he and his wife were spending their rest times at the neighborhood Econo-Lodge.
But no matter how remote the town or treacherous the weather, there's a roomful of people waiting patiently to hear him speak. It's hard to explain what brings them out, since I have finally and reluctantly accepted the fact that he is not hiring them. None of his issues seem to have much pull. The polls show voters are apathetic about tax cuts of any size, let alone one as complicated and controversial as Mr. Forbes's pet proposal.
He's trying to appeal to the Christian right -- this week he said George W. Bush was a "timid" abortion opponent, while he was "bold." ("Bold" appears to be the adjective of choice this year. Perhaps this race, lacking any other focus, will be remembered for recycling old laundry detergent names. Let's call the Bush tax cuts "fab.") But dissatisfied social conservatives seem to yearn for a candidate with fire in the belly, and they can get more passion than Mr. Forbes is offering in Alan Keyes or Gary Bauer. Or the telephone book.
Still, the sight of all those upturned faces has energized the candidate, sort of. "I'm pumped up!" Mr. Forbes keeps saying, with exactly the same expression he uses when vowing to drive a stake through the tax code, or inquiring whether everybody liked the free chili. The newly peppy speeches sound like an infomercial, in which Mr. Forbes explains how we can all become winners in the game of life by instituting a flat tax and privatizing Social Security. ("You take someone on minimum wage their whole lives. They'll have upwards of $200,000 when they retire!")
The serious presidential candidates generally ignore the Forbes campaign, but in Iowa the Republican establishment has been attempting to demonize him as an archfiend of negative advertising. Senator Charles Grassley is on the radio warning the public to beware of possible anti-Bush ads as if they were radioactive. At the first sign of negativity, he urges, "hang up the phone, throw the mail out and change the station." While Mr. Bush was busy hammering on John McCain in New Hampshire, his staff in Iowa was complaining that a Forbes pamphlet had been rigged to make Mr. Bush's ears look big. If this keeps up, Mr. Forbes may actually qualify for the sympathy vote.
His organization, which is the best money can buy, may compensate for his lack of pizazz. But Americans still prefer presidential candidates who seem to have at least a modicum of an idea what they're getting into, and the Forbes people want the nation to entrust its security to a guy whose chief claim to fame is that he once ran a business his father gave him. You can't spend your way around that problem.
The campaign, however, is selling his lack of credentials as his big strength, and his supporters seem to agree. Almost invariably, they say they are in his corner because "he's not tainted," or "he doesn't run with the ones in Washington." Maybe the mysterious Forbes audiences are made up of voters who believed the Gingrich revolution would refashion America in their own image. When things sort of fizzled out, perhaps they gave up on politicians completely, and decided to place their bets on someone so uncharismatic he could be trusted not to trick them the way politicians did.
Or, on the other hand, it could just be that people who live in Iowa in the winter have a lot of time on their hands.
"It was either come here or go to exercise class," one elderly woman said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (91%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (91%); IOWA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); PRIVATIZATION (63%); INFOMERCIALS (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR); COLLINS, GAIL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



511 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Official Says Fed Should Slow U.S. Growth

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve needs to slow the pace of United States growth to prevent strong domestic demand and a tight labor market from overheating the economy, a governor of the Fed, Laurence Meyer, said today.
Mr. Meyer's remarks to economists in Washington seemed to confirm what is already widely expected -- that the inflation-wary Fed is on course for another interest rate increase at its next policy-setting meeting, set for Feb. 1 and 2. 
 Mr. Meyer, the Fed's keenest inflation hawk, told the National Economists Club and the Society of Government Economists that the economy's performance in recent years has been exceptional and that inflation remained modest.
But growth and output are running in excess of what the Fed considers their trend, or the sustainable long-term pace, and this will eventually drive up costs throughout the economy, he said.
"Given how low the unemployment rate is already, the first order of business is ensuring that we at least slow growth to trend and prevent the output gap from getting any bigger," Mr. Meyer said.
The Fed's major concern at this stage is that robust demand for goods and services from both businesses and consumers is outpacing supply, a recipe for inflation, Mr. Meyer said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (73%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; LABOR US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); 

PERSON: MEYER, LAURENCE LAURENCE MEYER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



512 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: A Clinton Initiative in a Science of Smallness

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
The Clinton administration plans today to announce an ambitious program to accelerate basic research in the field of nanotechnology, the design and fabrication of devices of ultramicroscopic size.
Nanotechnology is widely considered an extremely promising area of science and engineering, but it has realized only limited commercial success to date. 
Today, in a speech at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, President Clinton will stress the importance of expanding basic research in both the physical and biological sciences. As part of the speech, he will announce plans to ask Congress to finance a National Nanotechnology Initiative to encourage basic research in the field.
The president will set out these "grand challenges": Shrinking the entire contents of the Library of Congress into a device the size of a sugar cube; assembling new materials from the "bottom up" -- from atoms and molecules; developing ultralight materials that are 10 times as strong as steel; creating a new class of computer chip millions of times as fast as today's Pentium 3; doubling the efficiency of solar cells; using gene and drug-delivery technologies to detect and target cancerous cells, and developing new technologies to remove the smallest contaminants from water and air.
The initiative will double federal spending in the field over the next five years. The plan calls for an increase in nanotechnology research spending to $497 million in the coming fiscal year, about 70 percent of which will go to university scientists for basic research.
Thomas A. Kalil, special assistant to the president for economic policy, said: "Nanotechnology is a perfect example of the kind of investments that President Clinton and Vice President Gore believe are necessary for America's future. It's long term, high risk and high payoff."
Nanotechnology -- broadly defined as the ability to manipulate and move matter -- is rapidly developing as a promising approach to a wide range of sciences and technologies. For example, researchers at both corporations and universities have made significant strides in the last year toward building computers that would be several orders of magnitude smaller and more powerful than today's silicon-based machines.
Moreover, nanotechnology is believed to have great potential in biomedicine in applications ranging from improved drug delivery to disease detection.
In the world of mechanical devices, nanotechnology has already created billion-dollar markets for devices like ink-jet printer heads and accelerometers for automobiles. But researchers are optimistic about even bigger payoffs. For example, researchers believe they are on the track of new materials that are as much as 10 times as strong as steel, yet weigh only a fraction of it.
Currently the National Science Foundation, the Pentagon, the Energy Department, NASA, the Commerce Department and the National Institutes of Health are all financing nanotechnology research. The National Nanotechnology Initiative calls for increasing spending by these agencies -- as much as 400 percent in the case of NASA -- in next year's budget.
There has been an explosion of nanotechnology-oriented research proposals coming from university campuses in the last year, a government official said, and it has only been possible to finance a fraction of them under the current spending limits.
Spending under the new program will be broken down into financing long-term fundamental research; support for grand challenge efforts; the creation of new research centers; the establishment of a research infrastructure, and the study of ethical, legal and societal implications of nanotechnology. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RESEARCH; NANOTECHNOLOGY; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; BIOTECHNOLOGY NANOTECHNOLOGY (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); CANCER (78%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (72%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (71%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MARKOFF, JOHN BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



513 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Blue Chips Drop on Interest-Rate Worries

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks fell steeply yesterday on concerns that rising interest rates would ultimately cut into corporate earnings, while signs of strong growth from leading technology companies pushed the Nasdaq further into record territory.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 138.06, to 11,351.30. The blue-chip average rose as much as 68 points in early trading and plunged as much as 214 at midday. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 38.22 points, to 4,189.51, extending the record high reached just Wednesday. Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 10.33, or 0.7 percent, to 1,445.57.
Stocks rose at the opening bell after I.B.M. easily beat Wall Street's profit forecasts with quarterly results it released after the close of trading on Wednesday.
While company officials warned that lingering concerns will continue to take a toll on sales in the current quarter, they encouraged analysts to leave their profit forecasts for 2000 intact. I.B.M.'s stock rose 5 1/2, to 121.
Alcoa fell 4 7/16, to 73 11/16, as the company announced plans to restart primary aluminum production to meet growing global demand. The announcement ignited fears that aluminum prices will drop, hurting Alcoa's bottom line.
Consumer products companies also fared poorly. Procter & Gamble fell 2 5/8, to 112 9/16, and 3M dropped 3 11/16, to 95 1/8.
Analysts said lingering worries that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates this year are affecting blue-chip stocks more than technology companies. Higher rates can cut into corporate profits by making it more expensive to borrow money.
"Investors seem to feel that as long as the technology companies are projected to grow 40 or 50 percent per year, who cares about interest rates?" said A. C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. "More mature companies can't possibly grow at that rate."
Indeed, investors rewarded several technology leaders for their strong growth today.
On the Nasdaq, Apple Computer soared. Apple said late Wednesday that it earned $183 million, or $1.03 a share, in its most recent quarter, and its stock rose 6 15/16, to 113 1/2.
Engage Technologies rose 20 9/16, to 97 9/16 after buying two online advertising businesses from its parent company, CMGI Inc.
Not every technology leader was rewarded for strong profits. America Online, which has had a tumble in its stock price since it announced its intentions to merge with Time Warner, fell 3/16, to 64 1/4. AOL said late Wednesday that it earned $224 million in the quarter ended Dec. 31, more than double the $86 million in the period a year earlier.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose to a record. The index, which lagged in 1999, has surged so far this year and has set records in four consecutive sessions.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
 Treasury bond prices fell as a report of record-high imports and exports underpinned expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates more than once in coming months to slow consumer demand and curb faster inflation.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 7/32, to 92 8/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.74 percent, from 6.71 percent on Wednesday.
"The Fed has got to be displeased with consumer confidence and the rate of spending, and I full well expect them to continue to raise rates until they get what they desire," and higher bond yields will follow, said Kevin Perry, an adviser at Jurika & Voyles, a unit of Nvest Companies in Boston.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (82%); AA (NYSE) (82%); MLNK (NASDAQ) (61%); AOL (NYSE) (61%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (82%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (61%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (61%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (82%); MODUSLINK GLOBAL SOLUTIONS INC (61%); AOL INC (61%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



514 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Mixed-Income Rental Units Planned for Chelsea

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A small wedge of Chelsea is being transformed into a 98-unit mixed-income rental complex made up of a 13-story apartment building nearing completion on Eighth Avenue and two five-story prewar brownstones that turn the corner on West 21st Street.
The $21.5 million project, called Chelsea Arms, is to be completed in May. Its new building, one of the last to rise in the neighborhood under zoning that allows taller buildings than are now permitted under a recent rezoning, is to contain 70 studio to three-bedroom apartments. There will also be 28 one- and two-bedroom renovated units spread through the two brownstones. 
 Each of the three buildings will have an entrance on 21st Street, with the one for the new structure formed by a walkway carved through the smaller corner bronwstone building, knitting together the project. There will also be 9,000 square feet of street-level retail space along Eighth Avenue next to the Bendix Diner, which will remain at the corner of 21st Street.
Eighty percent of the rentals will be leased at market rents. For the new units, the monthly rents are expected to be from $1,950 for studios of 600 square foot to $5,000 for two-bedroom apartments of 1,100 to 1,200 square feet. Two three-bedroom duplexes with 1,800 square feet each will rent for $7,500 a month.
Monthly rents for the existing 670-to-1,075-square-foot units in the brownstones, which will be renovated, are to be $2,100 to $2,800, said Andrew S. Heiberger, president of CitiHabitats, the project's exclusive leasing agent. Leasing of those units is expected to begin by April.
The remaining 20 percent of the units -- 14 in the new building and 6 in the existing ones -- will be rented at $342 to $559 a month to people with annual incomes of $12,436 to $26,700, depending on family size. There are 12 existing rent-stabilized tenants in the smaller structures who may meet the income requirements.
Otherwise, said Avery B. Seavey, a principal of the Seavey Organization of Manhattan, which is developing the project, existing tenants will remain in their apartments or move to comparable ones within the complex, which, if they choose, will be renovated, without resulting in an increase in their monthly rents.
The renovation of the two existing buildings will include upgrading the mechanical systems and hallways as well as giving the vacant apartments new kitchens and baths. The work is expected to begin by the middle of next month.
Because this is a so-called 80-20 project, the Seavey Organization got $18 million in tax-exempt bond financing from the New York State Housing Finance Agency. It also secured a letter of credit from Chase Bank and is investing $3.5 million of its own money in the project, which is also eligible to receive a 20-year tax abatement from the city.
Mr. Seavey said his company bought the Chelsea properties -- the new building replaces two empty three-story commercial structures -- to produce "new as well as affordable housing in a neighborhood that needs both."
Edward Kirkland, chairman of the Chelsea preservation and planning committee of Community Board 4, said the project's affordable component made it a good fit for his gentrifying neighborhood.
It is one of several such 80-20 projects under way or proposed in the area covered by the community board that could generate roughly 100 more affordable units, he added. Another is a 365-unit project planned by the Rockrose Development Corporation on a long-empty blockfront on the west side of Seventh Avenue between 25th and 26th Streets.
"Maintaining an economically integrated community," Mr. Kirkland added, is one of the main goals of what he called the Chelsea Plan.
The plan, implemented through zoning changes approved by the City Council last fall, is also intended to maintain the neighborhood's historic character and scale and discourage displacement. Mr. Kirkland said "the history of the Seavey Organization gives us confidence that it will keep the substance of its promises to its existing tenants, and I am sure there would be screams from them and their advocates if that was not happening."
The rezoning affects an area of Chelsea from West 14th Street to north of 23rd Street, between the Avenue of the Americas and 10th Avenue. Among other things, it restricts the heights of new buildings in the area, decreasing it to roughly seven stories in and near the Chelsea Historic District.
Chelsea Arms, which is near the historic district, was approved before the rezoning. "I have mixed feelings about the new building's scale," Mr. Kirkland said, "but otherwise the project is O.K."
To lessen its impact, changes were made to the new 13-story building, which is designed "to recall traditional older New York buildings," said Stephen B. Jacobs, the project's architect. It was given setbacks "so the increased height from the shorter buildings to the new one is gradual rather than abrupt, and clad in two-tone beige and brown bricks to break up the scale," he said.
Most of the apartments in the new building will have two bedrooms to meet the demand for family-size units, said Mr. Heiberger, who noted that the rental vacancy rate in Chelsea was less than 1 percent.
Planned amenities for the complex include a 24-hour doorman and a common roof deck. As part of its purchase of the property, the Seavey Organization gave the seller, the Red Apple Company, a supermarket operator that owns both the Gristedes and Red Apple chains, the right of first refusal to occupy the new commercial space for an upscale food store.
Occupancy for the residential tenants is expected to start by June.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 98-unit project has a new building and two prewar brownstones. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SEAVEY ORGANIZATION CHASE BANK KENYA LTD (50%); SEAVEY ORGANIZATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEAVEY ORGANIZATION SEAVEY ORGANIZATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CHELSEA ARMS MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); BONDS (71%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE CHELSEA ARMS (90%); EDWARD KIRKLAND (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



515 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Strategy Is Beginning To Be Noticed By Consumers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
When you pay home heating oil bills this winter, pump gasoline into the family car or buy airline tickets to a sunny climate, you will see just how much OPEC's game of chicken is costing consumers.
With OPEC vowing to continue restraints on production, oil prices have begun surging again in the last two weeks. The price of crude oil is now $29.20 a barrel and headed to $30 or more, many commodity analysts say. Gasoline prices are at 77.33 cents a gallon in the futures market and heading to over $1.30 at the pump. And the near-term home heating oil futures contract is up to 86.46 cents a gallon, after climbing 8.6 percent yesterday. All these prices, except gasoline at the pump, are the highest since the run-up to the Persian Gulf war in January 1991. 
 The price jumps are now spilling over into financial markets. Concerns about oil's impact on inflation have sent bond prices lower and yields higher. Airline stocks have dropped sharply as fuel costs have risen. Major airlines are now adding fuel surcharges of $10 each to their tickets.
The arctic air in the Midwest and Northeast is responsible for some of the increases. But the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is really calling the shots. Production cuts by the oil-producing nations last March caused crude oil prices to double in 1999. Then last week, OPEC officials said there was a consensus to extend current production cuts -- amounting to 4.3 million barrels a day below their levels a year earlier -- beyond the March expiration date. So the question is, if the price of oil tops $30 a barrel, will OPEC keep squeezing? Or is it just talking tough?
"I don't take any announcement as final," said Irene King, senior oil market analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities, referring to last week's comments about extended production cuts. "But it is scary." Two weeks ago, she said there was a 70 percent to 80 percent chance that OPEC officials would decide to increase crude oil production to ease price pressures when they meet at the end of March. Now she says the odds are 50-50.
If OPEC does not relent, the relatively low levels of oil inventories and strong demand mean that prices will move higher.
According to the Energy Information Administration and the American Petroleum Institute, total United States inventories of crude oil are now at their lowest level since the end of 1996. At the same time, demand in December was 19.8 million barrels a day, the highest for the month since 1978. The International Energy Agency forecast yesterday that worldwide demand will rise 2.4 percent this year, the biggest gain since 1997, as global economic growth continues to pick up.
Because of OPEC production cuts last year, crude oil inventories, excluding the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, fell in the week ended Jan. 14 to 293.3 million barrels, from 324 million barrels a year earlier, according to the Energy Information Administration. The A.P.I. figures are about the same.
Gasoline supplies are tight, having dropped below 200 million barrels, to 198.3 million barrels, from 222.6 million barrels a year ago. Distillate stocks, which include home heating oil, are also low, having fallen to 118.8 million barrels from 152.6 million barrels.
Ms. King is most worried about the low gasoline stocks as refineries head into a period when they normally shut down for four to six weeks for maintenance and upgrades. She said that if inventories remained at these low levels in the spring, "then we are in trouble." That is because demand for gasoline picks up drastically during the peak summer travel season.
Trouble could mean gasoline lines, she said. But, "that is the extreme case," she noted, adding, "I don't think we are going to get there."
Despite last week's comments from OPEC, many analysts do not expect OPEC officials to risk pushing the price of oil too far above $30 a barrel. If the price goes higher, leaders of the United States, Europe and Asia may well begin to fret about the possible impact on their economies.
"I'm concerned about the increase in oil prices, and I'm going to be discussing this with my counterpart ministers from Saudi Arabia, Norway, Mexico and Venezuela very soon," the secretary of energy, Bill Richardson, said Wednesday.
So what OPEC probably wants to do is orchestrate a soft landing for the price of oil. That means the group needs to talk tough for a while longer. Holding out would reduce inventories further as oil is bought in anticipation of higher prices. With lower inventories, the downdraft in oil prices would be much weaker if OPEC increased production. Last week, some OPEC officials said worldwide inventories of crude oil were not yet low enough.
"They don't want people to anticipate production increases," said Michael Rothman, senior energy analyst at Merrill Lynch. "They don't want a production increase to lead to a crash in the oil price."
Frederick P. Leuffer, senior energy analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company, said crude inventories were so low now that OPEC would have to increase production to prevent prices from skyrocketing and the threat of gasoline lines. "We're within two days of what the industry considers a minimal operational level," which is crude oil inventories equal to 12 to 13 days of demand.
"If inventories decline from this level, OPEC won't be able to do what they say they will do," Mr. Leuffer argued. "This is simply an effort to talk up the price. The last thing they want to do is alienate consumers and force governments to dip into strategic petroleum reserves."
Some analysts expect Saudi Arabia to take the lead in pushing for a March agreement that will ease price pressures. Because there is no agreement yet on how long to extend the production cuts, there is room to maneuver. For now at least, Saudi Arabia is talking tough. But some see political motivations for it to do so. Any switch to supporting lower oil prices now could undermine the chances of victory for the moderates in the Iranian elections in February, these analysts say.
Politicians in the United States, meanwhile, are beginning to protest the higher prices. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, wants the government to dip into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to help push prices lower. "They have been saying that OPEC would relent for months," Mr. Schumer said. "The best way to jawbone them is to say that we are going to sell some oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve."
This all means that crude oil, gasoline and home heating oil prices are going to be higher than anyone expected just two weeks ago.
And that raises a bigger question: When will the American consumer get mad? Probably pretty soon. Gasoline pump prices have risen much more slowly than crude oil or the cost of gasoline before taxes are added in. But at $1.27 an unleaded gallon yesterday, the average countrywide price is just a penny away from its 1996 high.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders around the oil pit yesterday at the New York Mercantile Exchange. (pg. C2)
 
Graph: "Soaring Prices"
The price of oil has risen steadily over the last 12 months. The graph shows crude oil prices, near-month contract since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION; AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE; INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION; AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE; INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; HEATING FUEL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); DESERT STORM (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: ;FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



516 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Set Record In November

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
The insatiable American appetite for German cars, French perfume and Japanese televisions has helped the world's wealthiest countries grow faster than at any time since the mid-1990's, but the United States is warning that its allies need to join in the gluttony.
The United States trade deficit with the rest of the world set a new high in November, statistics released today show. Led by purchases of autos, electronics, oil and clothing produced abroad, the United States posted a monthly trade deficit of $26.5 billion, a nagging indicator that not everything is perfect in America's otherwise rosy economic picture. 
 Based on November's numbers, the United States deficit was on course to reach $267 billion for all of last year, about $100 billion more than 1998, which was itself a record year. The momentum is also worrying. Imports grew at double the rate of exports.
Reducing the swelling trade gap is the Clinton administration's top priority at a gathering of finance ministers from the Group of Seven in Tokyo this weekend. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, speaking in advance of the meeting, said Europe and Japan needed to start thinking big and growing fast, much like the United States.
"In both Europe and Japan, there's a complacency of low expectations," Mr. Summers said. "The world cannot indefinitely sustain the present level of imbalances."
America's stellar growth means that it is consuming more than its share of world output. Europe and Japan have the potential to grow faster if they loosen up the reins on their economies and worry less about inflation, Mr. Summers said. Ideally, both major trading partners would then buy more American goods and help to even out global trade.
The United States trade deficit has been a persistent concern for years, of course. But American policy makers are frustrated by its stubbornness during a period of relative prosperity abroad.
The deficit was supposed to level out, or begin contracting, now that the rest of the world has started growing again after the slump that began during the global financial crisis of 1997. Instead, it continues to set new records, month after month.
Though the deficit is a bigger burden on the economy now than it was in the 1980's, it has a lower political profile. Few economists or politicians question the competitiveness of the United States now as they did then. With inflation staying low and the government running a budget surplus, the United States is better equipped today to handle a big deficit than it was 15 years ago.
Some even argue that a surge of inexpensive imports from abroad have helped propel the United States economy to its current heights. Imports seem to have helped keep inflation down, allowing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates less than it otherwise would. And by buying manufactured goods abroad for less than they can be made here, capital has been freed up for investment in the hottest sectors of the American economy, like technology and the Internet.
Still, the swell in the trade gap poses some dangers. It reveals a persistent weakness in American manufacturing industries, like autos.
Despite the fact that German and Japanese automakers have invested billions of dollars in this country to build cars here -- meaning that the Toyota, Honda and even BMW and Mercedes-Benz brand names no longer always signal an import -- the American passion for high-end, foreign-made cars remains one of the biggest overall contributors to the trade deficit.
A larger concern, at least for economists, is the challenge the deficit poses to the dollar. Through the record economic expansion of the 1990's, the United States has sought to keep the dollar strong. But the ever-widening trade deficit needs to be paid back, sooner or later, by a surge in exports or a decline in the value of the dollar relative to other currencies, or both.
"Every time we have run a big deficit we have ended up with a big decline in the dollar, and that is bound to happen again," said C. Fred Bergsten, who runs the Institute of International Economics. "The real question is whether the dollar decline is hard or soft. The administration is doing what it can to make sure it's soft."
The dollar has already lost about a third of its value against the Japanese yen in recent months. It has remained strong against the euro, Europe's single currency, but many economists see the dollar weakening sharply if the trade gap persists.
Predicting the demise of the United States economy has been a fool's game in recent years. But one possible course leading to the end of the long expansion begins with a steep fall in the dollar. That would probably prompt a surge of inflation, causing the Fed to increase interest rates, choking growth.
If Europe and Japan were to start investing more in their own economies, and buying more abroad, some pressure on the dollar would ease, padding the ground for a soft landing, the thinking goes.
Mr. Summers's not-so-subtle plea to allies abroad is for them to raise the speed limit on economic growth by setting aside, as the United States has in recent years, the idea that it is better to keep growth well below its potential than to risk even modest inflation.
Europe and Japan are both growing "well below their potential," Mr. Summers said. "Having achieved a cyclical expansion does not constitute the basis for relaxation."
Though Japan has made a huge injection of public capital into its economy and lowered interest rates to near zero, Mr. Summers argues that it must continue to do so. Japan could also do more to stoke its moribund economy by lowering barriers to investment, trade and labor mobility.
Europe is a bigger problem for the Clinton administration. Led by France, many economies there are growing faster now than in recent years. But central bankers have quickly raised interest rates to head off potential inflation and keep the newly unified currency strong, disappointing the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade"
The graph compares imports and exports from June 1998. Another graph shows the deficit since June 1998. The deficit is the excess of imports over exports. (pg. C16)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GROUP OF SEVEN; EUROPEAN UNION LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; GROUP OF SEVEN; EUROPEAN UNION US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H LAWRENCE SUMMERS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



517 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Group of Seven Is Gearing Up for an Expected Nonevent

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 20

 BODY:
The meeting here this weekend of the men who chart the financial and economic policies of the Group of Seven industrialized nations may turn out to be a nonevent.
At least, that's what their Japanese hosts are hoping. 
 Compared with the last two years, the global economy is in a relatively serendipitous state. Europe is enjoying a strong recovery, the Asian economies have rebounded from crisis to post impressively high growth rates and the United States economy continues to defy the naysayers.
Even Japan, often treated as the naughty child of the international economy, is feeling rather prosperous. The economy appears to have bottomed out for now, and criticism from the United States is likely to be subdued, thanks to a hefty package of pump-priming measures Japan approved last fall and followed up with a generous budget proposal for the coming fiscal year.
"In general the global economic situation has improved, so we may not have difficult or -- how shall I say it? -- adversarial discussions this time," said Haruhiko Kuroda, vice minister of finance for international affairs at the Ministry of Finance.
Nonetheless, the Japanese may pay a high price for harmony. The advance teams that have been working to hammer out language for the communique that will be issued at the end of the meeting have failed to reach an agreement on a statement about foreign exchange.
The Japanese have been pushing for a reiteration of the statement issued after the last G-7 meeting in September, when the yen's rapid appreciation was perceived as a threat to the feeble economic recovery here. The yen fell to a low of 124.32 against the dollar last year, and stands now at 105.29 to the dollar. "We shared Japan's concern about the potential impact of the yen's appreciation for the Japanese economy and the world economy," that statement said.
Although the rise of the yen has abated somewhat since then, Japanese officials are still concerned that a failure to acknowledge some concern about its level will lead to a renewed effort by traders and speculators to increase the value of the currency.
"It's a tricky thing," said one senior official at the Ministry of Finance. "If the market expects there to be some strong language on exchange rates and that doesn't happen and there is disappointment, the reaction could be to force an appreciation of the yen."
But the Europeans are pushing hard to exclude any mention of exchange rates in the statement this time, fearing that would turn attention to what many regard as the weakness of the euro, which now stands at 1.0166 to the dollar. Some in the American and Japanese contingents suspect that the Europeans are quietly fostering a weaker euro to avoid more painful economic changes.
Those who have been trying to work out the language of the final ministerial statement are still wide apart on the issue, with the Japanese pushing for strong language on exchange rates or at least the yen and the Europeans arguing for no mention of exchange rates at all.
The Americans are in the middle, and may agree to make at least a nod toward Japan's concerns. In exchange, they would expect yet another promise from Japan to continue to work hard to encourage domestic consumption and to stop flirting with the notion of raising interest rates.
The United States delegation, too, is piqued at Europe's seeming lack of concern over the value of the euro and may use Japan's concerns as leverage to gain a compromise.
But many think a statement does not matter one way or the other, since the Group of Seven is not likely to back its words up with action. "There's a lot of talk about whether the G-7 communique will include any expression of concern over a strong yen, as it did in September," Marshall Gittler, a currency strategist at the Bank of America, wrote in a report today. "We expect that it will, but we don't think it matters because we don't expect the G-7 to act on those concerns."
As various Bank of Japan officials have pointed out, the stronger yen has not wreaked the havoc that many predicted it would. Japanese companies have managed to post profits despite the yen's higher value, and corporate sentiment continues to improve.
The ministers will also discuss Russia's economic situation, although they are not likely to come to any conclusion about whether the International Monetary Fund should resume its lending. American concerns about Russia's role in the war in Chechnya and the interim nature of the current Russian government are hurdles most consider too high to surmount.
Jockeying to promote various candidates to replace Michel Camdessus as head of the I.M.F. is likely to generate considerable interest, although the topic is not part of the agenda. "Formally, of course, the subject is not up for discussion," Mr. Kuroda said. "Anyway, with so many potential candidates among the participants in the meeting, how can we discuss it except in the corridors?"
Japan will be pushing its dark-horse candidate, Eisuke Sakakibara, the outspoken former occupant of Mr. Kuroda's office. He is considered a long shot, but Japan is still lining up support for him from its Asian neighbors and others.
Officials at the Ministry of Finance acknowledge that if the fund's European shareholders stay united, a European candidate will be unbeatable since those countries control more than 30 percent of the voting shares.
But the Japanese have taken heart in the European failure thus far to coalesce around a candidate, in spite of the stepped-up lobbying efforts by the Germans to promote Caio Koch-Weser, a senior bureaucrat in that country's finance ministry.
The post has traditionally gone to a European, but the Japanese are pushing against convention. "We have significant support for Dr. Sakakibara, and we will not be embarrassed to offer him as a candidate," one Finance Ministry official said. "It's very important to make the point that this is not a decision that is only to be made by the Europeans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; SUMMIT CONFERENCES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TRENDS (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



518 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: South (Jersey) Beats North as Retirement Home for Decommissioned Battleship

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
Capping a spirited and politically accented competition between Bayonne and Camden, the Department of Defense yesterday chose Camden as the new home port for the decommissioned battleship New Jersey.
In choosing the city in South Jersey, the secretary of the Navy, Richard Danzig, was sending the ship to a berth near the old Philadelphia Naval Shipyards, where the 45,000-ton ship was built in 1942. 
 The existence of a "developed waterfront location with cultural and tourist attractions" at the Camden site played a crucial role in its selection, Mr. Danzig said. Although supporters of the Bayonne site, in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, had worked to get the ship for more than 20 years, ultimately they lost out because it was essentially in an industrial area with few other possible tourist draws.
Representative Jim Saxton, a Republican of Mount Holly, a ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee and a major supporter of Camden's bid to be home port, applauded the decision in a news conference at the Camden waterfront with the ship in the background.
Noting that Camden has been dogged by a sagging economy for years, he said that the new ship museum would become a part of a "tourist renaissance."
Farther north, in Bayonne, Assemblyman Joseph Azzolina, chairman of the New Jersey Battleship Commission, which had worked for 20 years to attract the most decorated ship in the American fleet, took the decision with equanimity.
"I said, 'Aye, Aye, sir,' " Mr. Azzolina said, referring to the conversation in which Mr. Danzig delivered the news. "I congratulate Camden and want them to know that the state battleship commission will remain on board to do yeoman service in providing whatever they need."
The decision capped what Cmdr. Brian Cullen, a spokesman for the Navy secretary, called an "enthusiastic, very aggressive and vibrant" regional competition between the two cities for the naval prize. It was a "dynamic situation" that they said they preferred to one in which there was only mild concern about the country's naval heritage and only narrow local support, since shipboard museums must be financially self-sustaining and are viewed by the Navy as recruitment aids.
After Mr. Azzolina's battleship commission was poised to submit a single Bayonne request to the Navy to house the ship at the 437-acre former Military Ocean Terminal, it was Mr. Saxton and others in the Camden area who mounted a determined last-minute campaign.
Mr. Azzolina, a Republican, wondered aloud yesterday whether the "dynamic situation" that Commander Cullen referred to was essentially a political situation.
Mr. Azzolina noted that a combination of Mr. Saxton's prominence on the House Armed Services Committee in the Republican-controlled Congress and the clout with the Democratic Clinton administration of such Camden supporters as Andrew M. Cuomo, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and former Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia may have worked in favor of Camden and against Bayonne.
He noted that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, after originally promising to support whatever proposal Mr. Azzolina's commission chose, suddenly declared herself neutral when the Camden supporters, citing concerns about the less populous southern part of the state losing out to the more populous north, pressed the Navy to consider them as well.
In that neutrality, he recalled, she appropriated $6 million in state money for whichever city was successful in getting the New Jersey, thereby suddenly giving Camden a potential pool of money that came close to matching the $8 million in private and local funds that Bayonne had raised over 20 years.
"Some Camden supporters were boasting that politically they had it locked up, but Secretary Danzig assured me that the decision was not political," Mr. Azzolina said. "And I accept that."
The ship, which is about 3 football fields long, 108 feet wide at its beams and sits 6 stories above the waterline, had been in Bremerton, Wash., until last year. It was towed the 5,800 miles to South Jersey, making its 10th passage through the Panama Canal just before control passed to Panama.
"It's truly a proud day for South Jerseyans," Mr. Saxton said. "The U.S.S. New Jersey, which was built by many South Jersey residents on the Delaware River, is returning home."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Camden, N.J. highlighting where the ship will be retired: The U.S.S. New Jersey will retire to a site near its birthplace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT US NAVY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT US NAVY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); BAYONNE (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; BATTLESHIPS; NEW JERSEY (USS) MILITARY VESSELS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); TOURISM (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD JIM SAXTON (72%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



519 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

F.C.C. Adopts Hiring Rules For Broadcasting Industry
The Federal Communications Commission adopted new rules intended to increase job opportunities for minorities and women in the broadcasting industry, replacing previous guidelines that a federal appeals court said had unconstitutionally imposed quotas.
The new rules, adopted by a vote of 4 to 1, are a carefully fashioned effort by the commission and its chairman, William E. Kennard, to retain some kind of pressure on the broadcasting industry to seek members of minorities and women as job applicants without violating the court's 1998 ruling. Page A16. 

Profits Up 16% at General Electric
General Electric said its fourth-quarter profit rose 16 percent, to $3.09 billion, driven by sales of service contracts at industrial businesses and advertising at its NBC television network. Revenue rose 15 percent, to $32.9 billion. G.E.'s earnings were a penny better than the 92 cents expected by Wall Street analysts, but its shares fell $2.78125, to $145.9375. C2.
 
Blue Chips Fall Again; Nasdaq Gains
Blue-chip stocks fell while signs of growth at technology companies helped push the Nasdaq composite index to another record. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 138.06 points, to 11,351.30. The Nasdaq composite index was up 38.22 points, to 4,189.51. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 10.33 points, to 1,445.57. C5.
 
President Seeking a Tax Change
President Clinton moved to revise a tax that was intended to ensure that wealthy Americans pay some income tax but that has become a fast-growing burden on the middle class, particularly families with children. C2.
 
World Bank Sells Notes on Internet
The World Bank marked two firsts with its sale of $3 billion in three-year notes. It sold them directly to retail investors and offered them over the Internet. C5.
 
Lucent's Profit Down as Forecast
Lucent Technologies said it earned $1.25 billion in its most recent quarter, less than half of its profit a year earlier, as the company delivered the disappointing results it had forecast two weeks ago. C16.
 
Overture by Vodafone Is Rebuffed
Vodafone AirTouch said it was prepared to offer a modest sweetener to its all-stock bid for Mannesmann, now valued at $155 billion, but the German company spurned the overture as "wholly inadequate." Christopher Gent, Vodafone's chief executive, said his own stockholders would not countenance a bigger increase. Vodafone's hostile takeover attempt, the largest ever, was begun on Nov. 19. C3.
 
Split of a Chicago Exchange Urged
Responding to the growing threat of competition from electronic trading systems, the directors of the Chicago Board of Trade voted overwhelmingly to split the exchange into two for-profit companies. The plan is subject to approval by its members. C5.
 
Coca-Cola Forms Units in Europe
Coca-Cola, grappling to restore its image after product-contamination troubles last year, formed two units to manage its business in Europe, Russia and Turkey. C5.
 
G.M. Profit Better Than Expected
General Motors said it earned $1.15 billion in the fourth quarter, topping Wall Street's expectations, as its sales increased 3.7 percent, to $46 billion. C4.
 
Intel Announces Education Program
Intel announced a three-year $100 million program to help 100,000 elementary and secondary school teachers integrate computers and the Internet into their classrooms. A16.
 
Global Trade Group to Meet in Tokyo
Currency exchange rates are likely to be a much-disputed issue when ministers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations meet this weekend in Tokyo. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,351.30 down 138.06
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.74% up 0.03
The euro -- $1.017 up 0.004
The dollar -- 105.29 yen down 0.07
 
Graph shows the share price for General Electric for the week ending yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); CME (NASDAQ) (80%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); VOD (NASDAQ) (52%); VOD (LSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); VODAFONE D2 GMBH (82%); CME GROUP INC (80%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (65%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FAMILY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); APPEALS (72%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



520 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Continue to Drop

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell last week, while continued claims were at their lowest level in 11 years, the government said today in a report that indicated hiring remains robust.
First-time claims for state jobless benefits dropped 39,000 in the week that ended last Saturday, to 272,000, from 311,000 the week before, the Labor Department said. The drop was steeper than had been expected by economists, who had predicted an average 295,000 new claims in an informal survey. 
 Continued claims -- the number of people who have already claimed a week or more of benefits -- fell to 2.009 million in the week that ended on Jan. 8, the latest week for which figures were available.
It was the lowest level since 2.006 million in the week ended Dec. 3, 1988.
The closely watched four-week moving average, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations, fell to 292,000 for the week that ended last Saturday from 294,750 for the prior week, extending its run of less than 300,000 to 26 consecutive weeks, the longest such period since one that ran from July 29, 1972, to Jan. 5, 1974.
In the week ended Jan. 8, the latest week for which state-by-state figures were available, the department said 32 states reported an increase in claims exceeding 1,000 or more, led by California with 21,599 more claims.
That state attributed its rise in claims to a return to a five-day work week after the New Year's holiday.
In the same week, the Labor Department said six states reported a decrease in claims exceeding 1,000 or more, led by Wisconsin with 6,862 fewer claims in the construction and service industries, and manufacturing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



521 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: In Remote Alaska, Counting Begins for the Census

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: UNALAKLEET, Alaska, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Stanton Katchatag, an 82-year-old Inuit, answered a knock on his door here today at 10:50 a.m. and found himself facing Kenneth Prewitt, the director of the Census Bureau. Mr. Katchatag invited him in and offered him a chair.
Mr. Prewitt, who rode a dog sled into town at the end of a trip that took him across four time zones, got right down to business. Pulling out the census short form, he asked Mr. Katchatag his age, how he spelled his name, and his race. (American Indian or Alaska Native is the term the Census Bureau uses for Inuits, an ethnic designation now preferred by many of the native people once known as Eskimos.) 
 Describing the scene to reporters afterward, Mr. Katchatag said Mr. Prewitt asked for similar information about the only other person living in the one-story cedar-frame house, Mr. Katchatag's wife, Irene. When the 15-minute interview was over Mr. Katchatag, whose ancestors were among the first people to inhabit the North American continent, became the first person to be officially counted in the 2000 census.
Displaying plenty of excitement but only a vague grasp of population figures, Mayor Henry Ivanoff of this tiny fishing village on the Bering Sea said, "That means that over 225 million people will be standing in line behind him, including the president of the United States and the vice president, including the governors and lieutenant governors of all the 50 states, including Michael Jordan."
The interview here began the 2000 census, an effort to count the population of the United States and find out where every one of the estimated 275 million Americans are living on April 1. The Constitution calls for a count every 10 years to fix the number of House seats for each state, and states use the number to draw legislative districts. In addition, billions of dollars in federal aid will be distributed on the basis of how the population is counted.
The operation will send census takers to impoverished villages on the Mexican border, to islands off Maine and to shifting groups of shanties erected by homeless people in the nation's large cities.
This critical count is taking place in a nation that is more diverse than ever and that has often been termed less cooperative than ever. It is also taking place when political power between the major parties is balanced on a razor's edge.
Forms will be mailed to more than 120 million households, and about half a million census takers will be dispatched to interview the roughly 40 percent of households that do not return the forms. Census statisticians will then tabulate the results for months.
"Census 2000 is the opportunity to paint a picture of the country at one of its most dynamic periods in its history," said Mr. Prewitt, who began the count going from house to house past aluminum-frame fishing boats set on blocks in front yards.
Ten years ago, the Census Bureau began the 1990 census in remote parts of Alaska in the dead of winter two months before forms are mailed out to the rest of the country. Bureau officials say it is more cost-efficient to try to count in person the estimated 50,000 people, mostly Inuits, who are scattered throughout the 250 million square miles of Alaska's most remote areas. In the winter, census takers can travel by snowmobile and dog sled before people scatter to even more isolated hunting and fishing camps in the spring.
Over all, the logistical, demographic and political challenges facing the Census Bureau are as daunting as the trackless wilderness outside Unalakleet, a village of 800 people 450 miles northwest of Anchorage.
This years' census is by far the most expensive in the nation's history, even taking inflation into account. So far, the cost of the 2000 census is estimated at $6.8 billion, a huge increase over the $2.6 billion spent in 1990. Yet, all the expense will not protect the Census Bureau from challenges in the political arena and the courts.
"We're living in a period with very balanced political control between Republicans and Democrats," said Margo Anderson, a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, who is an expert on the census. "So both parties see opportunities in the census, the redistricting process and the presidential election to resolve the current stalemate to their advantage."
The bureau is hoping it can slow a decades-old decline in the proportion of people who take the time to fill out their census forms and mail them back. In 1990, 65 percent of American households that received the form completed and returned it, down from the 78 percent that did so in 1970. This year, the bureau is planning on a 61 percent return rate.
In Alaska, only 52 percent of the households that received the forms sent them back in, the nation's lowest return rate.
Census Bureau officials are planning a $102.8 million advertising campaign -- the largest ever for a census -- aimed at members of minority groups, people who rent and those living in mobile homes who tend not to return their census forms. Executives of Young & Rubicam, which is handling the advertising campaign, estimate that many African-Americans will see the census commercials as many as 120 times, and that some Hispanics could see them as many 105 times by the end of April.
The bureau is also working with local governments and community groups in an effort to convince people to return the forms.
Starting on March 27, a short time after the forms are first sent out and running until April 11, the bureau will post on the Internet the mail-back rate for every city, town and village in the country, hoping that publicizing the response rates will spur competitions among municipalities.
Still, not everyone is pleased with the Census Bureau's efforts. William E. Spriggs, director of research and public policy at the National Urban League, said that beyond informing community groups of the importance of the census, the bureau has come up with few concrete ideas on how community organizations can help.
"In many cases they have not done more than visit our affiliates and say the census is important," Mr. Spriggs said. "We've known that for five years. So we are left relying on them because we're not really in the process."
The census bureau will also try to hire more than 500,000 temporary workers, in an economy with a jobless rate of 4.1 percent, the lowest it has been since the 1960's. Because there is such a high turnover in these jobs, the bureau says it will need an applicant pool of about three million people.
Census officials are also trying to improve on their performance from 1990 when, according to later studies, more than eight million people were missed and four million other people were counted twice. The undercount was particularly severe among children, African-Americans living in major cities and Hispanics living in rural areas.
"The thing that we're worried about is that the causes for the undercount in 1990 haven't gone away -- in some ways they've increased," said Marisa Demeo, regional counsel for the Washington office of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund. "So we know there still will be an undercount, even with the bureau's best efforts."
To avoid a large undercount, officials plan to conduct a nationwide survey of a randomly selected sample of 300,000 households. It will use the results to adjust population counts in geographic areas containing an average of 100 people.
That statistical sampling, while scientifically sound, has run afoul of partisan politics. Because a large percentage of those missed, mainly racial and ethnic minorities, tend to live in Democratic areas, adjusting their population totals upward will give Democrats an advantage when states draw new boundaries for Congressional and state legislative districts for the new decade.
Oblivious to the concerns of the Census Bureau, the residents of Unalakleet were thrilled to be the first place to be counted. Scores of schoolchildren greeted Mr. Prewitt's flight from Anchorage on Wednesday with handmade welcome signs. He was given a traditional parka trimmed in wolverine fur, and mittens fashioned from the heads of wolves. On a snowy tarmac, the census director exchanged his black wing tips for white insulated boots and was whisked into town by dog sled.
Census officials selected Unalakleet to start the new census because the town has a reputation for welcoming outsiders. Indeed, it is a stop every March on the Iditarod dog race, and the townspeople are used to the presence of the news media and celebrities.
"In the old days we used to get folks like Terry Bradshaw and Lynn Swann," said Tim Towarak, the city administrator. "But this is much more exciting. They concentrated on the dog mushers. They've got their own little world. This is affecting the whole community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth Prewitt, seated, opening the 2000 census in Unalakleet, Alaska. (Associated Press)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); BERING SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNALAKLEET (ALASKA); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ALASKA, USA (94%); BERING SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS CENSUS (97%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); MAYORS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); POLITICS (65%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (62%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



522 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Plans Grand Makeover for Ellis Island

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
New Jersey officials sketched a $300 million vision today for the redevelopment of Ellis Island, most of which has been concealed behind overgrown weeds and chain-link fences from the millions who visit every year.
They hope the plan will turn the long-neglected island in New York Harbor into a setting for meetings, including local corporate conferences and global peace talks, with new museums devoted to America's immigrant heritage and the study of public health. 
 As a more urgent -- and realistic -- first step, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said that $8.6 million had been secured from state, federal and private sources to stabilize dozens of decrepit buildings around the island, especially on its tumbledown southern half, what is known as the sad side, where immigrants too sick to be allowed entry were housed in hospital wards until they recovered, or died. The total needed for this step is $10.9 million, she said.
"As New Jerseyans, we take great pride in our history," the governor said today at a news conference. "But we must also take care of our history so that future generations can share our pride and visit these landmarks of our national journey. We owe it to our future to preserve our past."
The announcements today marked a dramatic and, by governmental standards, rapid turnabout in the status of Ellis Island, which after decades of neglect by the federal government was labeled one of the country's most endangered historic places in 1997 by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
In 1998, the Supreme Court ended a long border dispute between New York and New Jersey by awarding Trenton sovereignty over most of the island's 27.5 acres.
New York's share includes the main immigrant museum and Great Hall, although the border passes through parts of buildings and grounds.
Although the island remained under federal control -- the National Park Service owns and operates it -- Governor Whitman immediately asserted herself in determining its future. An 18-member committee she appointed quickly ruled out a commercial project, cheering those who had feared that the island would be used for hotels or a theme park.
Preservationists greeted today's news with enthusiasm. "I think New Jersey has been a wonderful thing to happen to Ellis Island," said Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy. She added, "They understand the importance of the heritage of Ellis Island and have respected it with these recommendations."
Ms. Breen noted that New Jersey prison inmates began pulling up weeds and carting away garbage from the overgrown parts of the island last April, saving hundreds of thousands of dollars in contracting and hauling fees. "With all due respect to New York," she added, "New York never did any of this."
In its final report to the governor today, the committee recommended three main uses for the island.
A Center for Immigrant Contributions and Ethnic Learning would research and mount exhibitions celebrating the immigrant experience, encompassing not only those Americans who passed through Ellis Island, but also those who arrived in slave ships from Africa and the Caribbean, and more recent immigrants from around the world.
One objective of the center would be to illuminate "the nation's seemingly contradictory practices of ethnic exclusion, discrimination, pluralism, assimilation and tolerance," the report says.
Though the report states that the center would avoid "overly focusing on specific immigrant or ethnic groups," Finn Casperson, the committee's chairman, said many ethnic groups could be expected to help in either lobbying for money or contributing it, among them the descendants of Irish, German, Scandinavian, African and Asian immigrants.
The second use, a Public Health Learning Center, would build upon the island's history as the birthplace of the United States Public Health Service. Dr. C. Everett Koop, the former surgeon general, is leading an effort to build a public health museum in Washington, and Representative Robert Franks, a Republican from New Providence, N.J., has introduced legislation that would create a satellite of that museum on Ellis Island.
Third, an International Conference Center would be the first in the United States on a publicly owned, nationally recognized site, according to the report. The committee went so far as to suggest that the island's proximity to New York City and its "insulated and tranquil" atmosphere could place it in the elite company of Versailles and Geneva as a suitable setting for peace talks or global economic meetings.
The center would be publicly developed, but financed largely with private money, Mr. Casperson said. New Jersey's many pharmaceutical companies, "who are renowned for their conferences," could be expected both to pay for its construction and to make use of the center, he added. Hotels could be built on available land in Jersey City.
Nevertheless, Mr. Casperson, a prominent Republican contributor who is a former chief executive of the Beneficial Corporation, said much of the $300 million it would take to fully rebuild Ellis Island would have to come from Washington. "I strongly believe, and maybe I'm naive, but this happened on the federal government's watch," he said. "They were the ones who let the buildings go."
The financing announced today was paltry by comparison, but of no small importance, officials said. Governor Whitman said she would include $1 million in her proposed budget, which is due soon, to preserve the baggage and dormitory building, the largest on Ellis Island and the one in the gravest danger of collapse. The National Park Service will provide another $1 million.
Of the $6.6 million needed to stabilize the hospital buildings, Congress has contributed $2 million and Trenton $2.3 million, and the rest is still being sought. A $2.3 million project to save the pedestrian passageway is fully financed, officials said, half from the federal government and half from a private donor they would not yet identify.
"Time is of the essence," Mr. Casperson said. "The buildings are falling apart. They need to be restored. We have momentum, but we must act now. We cannot afford to put it off for another decade."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Restoring Ellis Island"
 
Officials said most of the $10.9 million needed to stabilize the 30 buildings on New Jersey's part of Ellis Island had been secured from state, federal and private sources.
 
Hospital Complex
$6.6 million
 
Ferry Building
(pedestrian passageway)
$2.3 million
 
Baggage and Dormitory Building
$2.0 million
 
(Source: Governor's Advisory Committee on the Preservation and Use of Ellis Island South side)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ELLIS ISLAND; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MUSEUMS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH IMMIGRATION (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); REFUGEES (76%); HISTORY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); HOSPITALS (53%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



523 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE IOWA EQUATION;
Ethanol, for All Its Critics, Fuels Farmer Support and Iowa's Role in Presidential Races

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: ROCK RAPIDS, Iowa, Jan. 14

 BODY:
One of the oddest features of the presidential selection system is the way the candidates troop to Iowa and rave about corn alcohol.
The brew is not moonshine, but ethanol, a gasoline additive that here in the heartland is as American as hogs. 
 Marvin Flier, a hefty and amiable 44-year-old who grows corn and soybeans on his 650-acre farm near Rock Rapids, in the northwestern corner of the state, has watched with a bit of satisfaction as the presidential candidates have come to Iowa, seeking support in the Jan. 24 caucuses, and solemnly declared their support for tax breaks for ethanol.
"Sometimes I think they just come out and pander to us," Mr. Flier reflected. Then he added, "Of course, that may not be the worst thing."
Ethanol, introduced after the 1973-74 oil crisis, is hailed by its supporters as a way to avoid dependence on foreign oil and, because it is clean-burning, as a solution to air pollution. But many experts have been unimpressed, and a 1997 study by the General Accounting Office, a research arm of Congress, concluded that tax breaks for ethanol had cost the Treasury $7.1 billion while having "little effect" on the environment or on American energy independence.
In Iowa, though, ethanol plays a critical role in the agricultural economy. So perhaps it is not surprising that every candidate who is campaigning in Iowa supports tax breaks for ethanol.
Former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, who is challenging Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic nomination, has even reversed his longstanding opposition to ethanol, saying that farmers he has talked to changed his mind. Only Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, has denounced tax breaks for ethanol. But Mr. McCain is not campaigning in Iowa.
"McCain's a good man and has a strong character, but what he said about ethanol -- that probably cost him my vote," Mr. Flier said. "Now I'm leaning to Bush."
The ethanol debate underscores the peculiar effects of the nation's presidential selection system, for Iowa's role as the first state to vote in the presidential nomination process is perhaps one reason the ethanol tax break has survived for more than two decades.
The longtime support of former Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, a powerful farm-state politician and three-time presidential contender, buttressed the tax break for ethanol.
But ethanol is less a partisan issue than a regional one; it is supported by Democrats and Republicans alike in major farm states. And wherever they are from, ambitious politicians who see themselves as presidential timber may feel inclined to support ethanol just to preserve the option of campaigning in Iowa.
"Given that the logic of ethanol is more about politics than environmental protection, the fact that Iowa has an early caucus looms large," said Daniel C. Esty, director of the Center for Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University.
In the 1970's, ethanol seemed an answer to energy and environmental problems alike. It is clean-burning and is produced from home-grown corn, so the federal government instituted a series of tax breaks to encourage ethanol production. Ethanol-blended gasoline is taxed 5.4 cents less per gallon than pure gasoline, and most experts agree that the ethanol industry would disappear without that advantage.
To critics, ethanol is a prime example of an infant industry that never grows up to become competitive on its own. In addition, ethanol evaporates more easily than gasoline, and so in the hot summer months this can create its own pollution problems of ozone, or smog.
"Ethanol helps with some air pollution problems and worsens others," said A. Blakeman Early, an environmental consultant with the American Lung Association in Washington. "You begin to wonder whether it's really worth it to have a subsidy when in some circumstances it can make air pollution worse."
While making it clear that he did not condemn ethanol, Mr. Early said that if the goal was to improve air quality, one might accomplish more by using the money in other ways.
Critics also often note that it takes a tremendous amount of energy just to produce ethanol -- plowing the fields, planting the seeds, harvesting the corn, trucking it -- and some even suggest, without much evidence, that ethanol may take more energy to produce than it supplies. Moreover, almost half of the capacity to produce ethanol is owned by Archer Daniels Midland, the huge agricultural conglomerate that is a heavy campaign contributor to Republicans and Democrats alike. Some critics see the ethanol program as returning a favor.
"This is a classic case of a corporate welfare-style giveaway," said Scott Harshbarger, president of Common Cause, a public affairs lobbying organization.
So it might meet seem odd that the presidential candidates would be rushing around Iowa praising tax breaks for an alcohol fuel that does not much impress many experts. But that is to miss the point, because regardless of whether ethanol is a great fuel for cars, it certainly works wonders in Iowa campaigns.
The one thing that everybody agrees on is that the ethanol tax break raises corn prices, and in the Midwest, where family farms are struggling to survive desperately low prices for their products, that counts for a lot. Farming has been left behind in the great economic expansion of the Clinton administration; in Iowa alone, thousands of farmers have been forced out of business.
The toll hangs heavy over entire rural communities as farmers delay purchases and their families wonder which would be worse: for the children to pack up and leave the farm or to stay on and risk impoverishment. By some calculations, without ethanol, corn prices would be 20 percent lower than they already are.
Mr. Flier recalls that when he began farming in 1975, he was getting $2.40 a bushel for his corn. This year the price was about $1.40. Yet he said the same tractor that he bought in 1975 for $18,000 would now cost $75,000. And his other costs have also increased enormously.
"If we didn't have ethanol, that would take a lot of our earnings away," Mr. Flier said. "Ethanol allows us to maintain our standard of living."
Don Breuker, a farm manager here in Rock Rapids, put it more starkly.
"You start peeling off another 20 or 30 cents a bushel out of farm incomes," Mr. Breuker said, "and there'd be a whole lot of hurt right now."
The farmers also dispute many of the points made by ethanol's critics.
Trevor Guthmiller, executive director of the American Coalition for Ethanol, says the tax break was deserved because ethanol did not entail the cleanup costs of gasoline pollution and did not involve the expense of maintaining the military capacity abroad to ensure steady supplies of imported petroleum.
Both the farmers and the ethanol industry view the Iowa campaign period as a rare opportunity to make their case.
"Part of our work is educating people," Mr. Guthmiller said, "and we can do that because whether they're Democrats or Republicans, they need to come through Iowa. And that's our chance." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ETHANOL; TAX DEDUCTIONS ETHANOL (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ALCOHOLS (91%); FUEL ADDITIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (90%); FUEL TAX (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); AIR POLLUTION (52%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D JOHN MCCAIN (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



524 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Office Space Sought

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer announced yesterday that he had formed a blue-ribbon panel to address what he described as the greatest obstacle facing New York City's economy: a lack of office space for the financial services, high technology and biotech industries.
Mr. Schumer, corporate executives and developers say that the dearth of space is forcing many of the city's most dynamic companies to move elsewhere and is undercutting the growth of the local economy. Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, recently bought land in Jersey City after it was unable to find development sites near its corporate campus in Lower Manhattan. 
 The panel, called the Group of 30, is to issue a report in six months with recommendations for initiatives by the state and city.
Mr. Schumer said a starting point could be developing office projects outside Manhattan through partnerships between government and private companies.
"The fact is that too many dynamic growth businesses which New York is spawning are landing someplace else once they need to grow," he said.
Mr. Schumer and Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, will lead the panel, whose members include Fernando Espuelas, president of Starmedia.com; Gerald Levin, chief executive of Time Warner; Arnold Levine, president of Rockefeller University; and Brian McLaughlin of the Central Labor Council.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GROUP OF THIRTY (57%); GROUP OF THIRTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF THIRTY (57%); GROUP OF THIRTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOTECHNOLOGY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BONDS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) CHARLES SCHUMER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



525 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 59 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Jobless Rate Is Down

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
New York's unemployment rate fell to 4.8 percent in December, the first time since 1988 that joblessness in the state has dipped below 5 percent, state labor analysts reported yesterday. 
 Unemployment dropped 0.2 percentage points between November and December, and last month's rate was 0.6 percentage points less than the December 1998 rate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



526 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE ORGANIZATION;
Bradley's Most Influential Adviser? Bradley

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Bill Bradley does not have advisers in the traditional sense -- and does not need any, according to many of those who are acting, as the candidate's friend Dan Okimoto put it, "more as a sounding board, raising doubts here and there."
"His mastery obviates the need for close policy advisers," said Mr. Okimoto, a college buddy, now a professor of international relations at Stanford University, and someone with whom Mr. Bradley discusses a number of matters, including foreign policy. "There is no such structure in place on foreign policy or any other issue. The candidate is in charge of tone, direction, vision, and those around him provide support. Both in a political sense and on policy, Bill Bradley is his campaign." 
 But his campaign -- that is to say, Mr. Bradley himself -- is perceived to have made several missteps recently. Mr. Bradley seemed to flub a presidential debate on agriculture here. And his decision to spend so much time in Iowa, where his campaign appears to be lagging, instead of concentrating on New Hampshire, where he is in a tight race, has been widely questioned.
Now, even some supporters say the holes in the campaign are starting to show.
Joe Trippi, an unaligned Democratic consultant who ran Walter F. Mondale's Iowa campaign in 1984 and has had generally positive things to say about the Bradley campaign, said: "He really is running his campaign the way he wants to run it, and I'm not sure he's taking any advice. That's always a bad sign. The move to Iowa definitely was a risky gambit, and I don't think I would have advised it."
Still, Mr. Trippi said, it is only after next Monday's caucuses that "we'll see if Iowa was a big mistake -- or brilliant."
Meanwhile, one of Mr. Bradley's sounding boards, his wife, Ernestine Schlant, a professor of comparative literature at Montclair State College, has a theory about politics that might apply: Any candidate's greatest asset almost always turns out to be his greatest liability as well, she said in an interview last summer, citing Bill Clinton and his personal warmth and empathy as a case in point.
And while both Mr. Bradley's broad knowledge and his determination to "run a different kind of campaign," as he likes to say, have been keys to his appeal, his deep involvement in every aspect of his campaign has also left him vulnerable.
Both his Democratic opponent, Vice President Al Gore and the Republican front-runner, George W. Bush, have been criticized for relying too much on consultants of all sorts. But those in opposing camps -- advisers themselves, of course, with a clear interest in the perceived importance of their work -- insist that the lack of a more formal advisory structure in the Bradley campaign is a problem. And they say a truly smart candidate is smart enough to know he needs help.
"The truth is that politics is a team sport," one Bush adviser said. "The quarterback gets the credit, but you still need a defensive line, and I haven't seen that in Bradley's camp, which is a huge problem."
Critics have called Mr. Bradley glacially slow in responding to attacks, particularly on his health care plan, leaving Mr. Gore's assertion that it would hurt poor people virtually unchallenged for a long while.
And when he finally did fight back, for example by raising Mr. Gore's complicated history with tobacco companies, what may have been perfectly legitimate questions were seen as out of bounds because he had set himself up as a candidate who was above that kind of give-and-take.
On those and other campaign decisions, it is not that Mr. Bradley listens to no one, but that, on the contrary, he listens to a great number of people -- and then makes the important calls himself. It was Mr. Bradley who chose child poverty, health care, race relations and gun control as the central issues in his campaign. And who, to a surprising degree, mapped out the plans he wanted to see put in place.
His staff insists that he does not micromanage, and is happy to leave to others the mechanical, logistical details like booking planes and deciding which field directors go where. Even in this, though, "he does like to be keep informed, and will tell us if we're going the wrong direction," said his campaign chairman, Douglas Berman.
And the list of ways Mr. Bradley is in control of his campaign is staggering.
Back when nobody but Mr. Bradley, Mr. Berman and a couple of other Bradley die-hards thought it was possible to raise even a fraction of the money the campaign has raised, the senator showed how it could be done, by pulling in people who had not been politically active before.
Marcia Aronoff, his adviser on policy, said he had been refining ideas for a health care plan for years and reached out to hundreds of people.
"I don't think you're going to see every decision coming back through him, but on health care -- the cornerstone -- or child poverty, he takes an active interest. Or improving race relations. Or key economic and foreign policy decisions."
David M. Cutler, a Harvard economics professor considered one of the chief architects of Mr. Bradley's health care plan, said, "I don't consider myself to be an incredibly important adviser." Told that nobody else seemed to, either, he said, "I had a sneaking suspicion that was true.
"He's a very intelligent man, so he didn't need the getting up to speed that a lot of candidates need."
The association is so loose, Professor Cutler added, that "I don't think I've ever actually met him. And I don't know if he's ever made a formal decision that, 'Oh, now you're X adviser.' I found him very impressive -- and I don't know him well, so it's kind of the same way I find the pope, impressive -- but he listens to a lot of voices."
Dr. Alan Garber, a Stanford professor who said he was one of those "putting the details together" for the health plan that Mr. Bradley wanted, said the most surprising part of the process was the lack of dissension among those discussing the options. "Everyone liked Bill's idea, and it really is his plan," he said.
On political strategy, too, Mr. Bradley is the final arbiter.
And his staff includes a core group that has been with him so long that its members often reflect the way he thinks. His campaign chairman, Mr. Berman, met Mr. Bradley when he was an adoring high school senior, on the morning after the Knicks won an N.B.A. championship, and has been with him since his first Senate campaign in 1977. His finance director, Rick Wright, played basketball with Mr. Bradley at Princeton 35 years ago. Ms. Aronoff was his longtime chief of staff in the Senate.
Of these, a friend and former aide to Mr. Bradley says, "It would only be a slight hyperbole to say Doug is the first person he calls in the morning and the last one he talks to at night. On political strategy, it's Doug and Bill."
Yet Mr. Berman describes his job this way: "If I have a role," he said, "it's being clear and helping people understand the values that course through the organization as a reflection of Bill."
He said the proof that Mr. Bradley was not too much of a one-man show was in the campaign's organizing successes: 'We filed in 31 of 31 districts in New York, he was first to file in Oklahoma, we raised twice as much money as the vice president in the fourth quarter, and more people in California signed up to be delegates for Bill Bradley than the vice president."
And Mr. Berman suggested that the campaign had taken some hits on purpose.
When Mr. Bradley gave a confused response to a question about whether he had voted against flood relief -- in fact, he had voted for the bill, but against an amendment -- there was some delay before the campaign clarified the facts.
Asked why, Mr. Berman said campaign staff members never spoke publicly about how specific decisions were made. Then he went on to say, "But Bradley has said, 'I want to run a campaign as an extension of the way I want to govern, to restore trust and bring back civility.' And if you say that, you have to operate that way. It's not that at times there's not the impulse to operate at a different level. But those who elevate tactics, we disagree with."
To some degree, of course, the Bradley campaign's position that it is above all that is itself a tactic. Whatever advice Mr. Bradley does receive is purposely underplayed by the campaign, which does not want to be seen as doing much of anything in the usual way. "Advisers," Mr. Berman said, "are never the story."
And Richard Ravitch, a leading New York Democrat who has gone over ideas about housing and urban development with Mr. Bradley's staff, suggested that the status of some advisers was still a bit of a mystery, even to them.
"Where'd you get my name?" Mr. Ravitch asked. Told he was considered someone Mr. Bradley listened to, he said, "Glad to hear it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Bill Bradley's use of advisers in his campaign for the Democrats' presidential nomination referred incorrectly to the New Jersey institution at which his wife, Ernestine Schlant, teaches. It is Montclair State University, not Montclair State College.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A poster from Bill Bradley's campaign in Iowa makes light of his can-do attitude. (pg. A1); Bill Bradley's campaign is concentrating on the Iowa caucuses, a strategy that has been questioned. Yesterday, Mr. Bradley made a stop in Ottumwa, Iowa, where one potential future voter took a low profile. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LITERATURE (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; BRADLEY, BILL; OKIMOTO, DAN (PROF) AL GORE (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



527 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Talking Back On Black Talk Radio;
A Roiling Conversation on the Air That Can Amuse or Embolden

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
It is midafternoon, two days before Y2K, and Sarah from Brooklyn is calling WLIB, the city's premier black talk radio station. She is dismayed about Rudy Crew's exit as the schools chancellor, and she has her own take on the reason for it.
"I strongly believe this, and I told this to a number of educators the day after the Board of Education raised Crew's salary to over $200,000," Sarah said, just getting started on her, um, unique theory. 
 "That was more money than the president of the United States of America makes. Did one African-American really think that that amount of a raise was really for a black man in office? That amount of money was raised because the mayor knew Rudy Crew's time was short, and that raise was secured for the next Caucasian female, who is an educator and who I happen to know and I happen to believe will be the next chancellor."
Minutes before, Puffy Combs was the subject on WLIB, and the phones were ringing as if the station were conducting a cash giveaway. Several callers were supportive of Mr. Combs, the rap star and record promoter who was arrested late last month on a gun charge. But one listener was riled at the self-described "ghetto fabulous" impresario.
"A man of Puffy's caliber, his status, which they allege that he has millions of dollars, shouldn't he get security and not these nitwit brains he has securing him?" the caller sniffed. "A gun in the car. I mean this is really ridiculous, and you see it over and over again with these so-called millionaire rappers."
Mark Riley, the host of "Politics Live" on WLIB-AM (1190), agreed. "If you're going to have somebody who's going to be armed, have somebody who's licensed, a professional," he said. "What happens is these guys pick the biggest cat they used to run with."
And so it goes, day after day on WLIB and a handful of other stations that broadcast talk shows geared to the full range of the city's black listeners. On some shows, the talk can be angry and conflicted, with hosts and callers tackling everything from trouble hailing cabs to Amadou Diallo to the use of the word "niggaz" on a popular DMX record. Other conversations can be more mainstream, where, for instance, one might hear sad, knowing talk about the people from Princeville, N.C., the nation's first black-governed town, which was ravaged by rains last fall.
"Black talk radio is the drum of the community," said Imhotep Gary Byrd, a popular former host at WLIB.
But if much of the city, black or white, is aware of black talk radio's existence, its various conversations -- irreverent, emotional, academic and, yes, sometimes conspiratorial -- are not regularly heard by the city's mainstream.
Several weeks of sustained listening, then, revealed a rich and varied dialogue, one that made it easy to understand why black talk radio has long functioned as a roiling, playful and galvanizing lifeline for blacks in New York City.
State Assemblyman Roger Green of Brooklyn was recently a guest on "The Open Line," a Sunday morning talk show on WRKS-FM (98.7), better known as KISS-FM. Mr. Green compared the current foster care system to chattel slavery.
"We have mothers who are coming into my office on a weekly basis who have literally had their babies in some cases torn from their breasts," he said. He also called "the prison-industrial complex" a menace to black children, "who are being picked like cotton and being shipped upstate."
In New York State last year the only growth in the governor's budget was in prisons, he said. "There's no question that people come to Albany to lobby to create prisons," he said. "It's become a perverse economic stimulus package for poor whites in rural white areas." In reality, the governor did propose modest spending increases in other areas.
Such conversations have been going on a long time. Black talk radio had its genesis in Chicago in 1948 on WSBC, where Jack I. Cooper was the host, said Bob Law, a veteran of both talk and rhythm and blues radio. Mr. Law, now on WWRL-AM (1600), a black-owned-and-operated station in Woodside, Queens, recently wrote a book about black radio, "Voices for the Future," published by African-American Images. Mr. Law said another show, "Brown America Speaks," emerged on WDIA in Memphis that same year. The host was Mat D. Williams, a popular newspaper columnist.
"Black talk was the only outlet for the frustration and the attainment of information," Mr. Law said.
"Without black talk," he added, "the community becomes voiceless. White talk is not neutral or impartial. It's Eurocentric. White talk raises no critical questions. Right now, Clinton has encouraged European countries not to buy bananas from Caribbean farmers. He wants them to buy only from Chiquita or Dole. The bananas they were selling to European countries were just enough to sustain them. This issue is never examined on white talk."
In the early days at WLIB, talk radio was an outgrowth of public affairs requirements imposed by the Federal Communications Commission. "There was no real energy in it," Mr. Law said. "It was not a priority. Some of the disc jockeys had to come back and do these public affairs shows about health, housing and education."
Today, four New York City stations have black talk shows. Judy Ellis, the general manager at KISS-FM, said "The Open Line" had 139,200 listeners, while the station's Sunday night show, "The Week in Review," had 36,300 listeners. (KISS's overall listenership for people 12 and older is 1,288,500, which places it in the top 10 in the New York market.)
WLIB management said it did not have figures for individual shows, but the mostly talk radio station has a listenership of 280,300 for people 12 and older. WBAI-FM (99.5), which has five black hosts, including Elombe Brath, the activist and artist, has about 200,000 listeners, according to management. And WWRL, which has a show by Tony Brown, a well-known broadcaster, has 250,000 listeners.
James Mtume, a member of KISS-FM's talk team and a Grammy award-winning composer, said there was tremendous growth potential in black talk radio. "Given the landscape, I think black talk radio is a sleeping giant ready to blow up," he said. "People would love something else other than the next love songs. Blacks are starved for information."
Black talk radio has not been without controversy over some of its content. In the early 1990's, for example, the Jewish Action Alliance held protests over comments made during the Crown Heights riots. "On WLIB and WWRL there was an unbelievable amount of anti-Semitism," said Beth Gilinsky, president of the group. "We held demonstrations. It was 1991, during the year of the Crown Heights riots. We located their sponsors and they started pulling ads."
But employees of black-owned and black-programmed stations say their shows are held to a different standard than the white mainstream. Steve Rendall, a senior analyst at Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, a national media watch group, echoed the sentiment.
"We've noted and quoted the occasional black talk radio host," said Mr. Rendall. "But in New York City, the irresponsible comments from black radio hosts are nothing compared to the torrent of bigoted talk that comes from white hosts on big mainstream radio stations."
Undeniably, black talk radio is chiefly driven by the city's great engine of emotional discourse: race. And virtually every week brings a new framing question.
After the actor Danny Glover's problem getting a cab in New York in the fall, the mayor's offensive on cab drivers who bypass blacks dominated the shows. At KISS-FM, a panel of pundits discussed the improvements they had already witnessed since the mayor announced that he would revoke the hack licenses and impound the taxis of drivers who whiz by blacks.
"Friday was one of the days that a brother could get out there and put his arm out and a cab would stop," said Bob Slade, a talk radio veteran and the moderator of the Sunday night show, "The Week in Review." "You could be talking, making an expression and the arm would accidentally go up and the cab would stop."
Meanwhile on WLIB, Mr. Riley, the host of "Politics Live," discussed Dr. Lenora Fulani, a black radical former presidential candidate who has endorsed Patrick Buchanan, the Reform Party candidate, for president. "What some people thought was the strangest match in this century or in any other century, for that matter," Mr. Riley began, "was Pat Buchanan and Dr. Lenora Fulani, late of the New Alliance Party, but obviously functioning now within the Reform Party.
"Obviously, she is Buchanan's most prominent black backer. She has promised to take him to Sylvia's and some other places. Somehow Pat Buchanan and soul food don't work well with me. But I have an open mind. Hey, Dr. Fulani could have him rioting before this is all over."
But if there was something loopily hilarious about Pat Buchanan eating at Sylvia's in Harlem, things got heated when Minister Conrad Muhammad took over the mike at WLIB last week during his show, "One on One." Mr. Muhammad, the minister of Mosque No. 7 in Harlem, had Karl Evanzz as a guest to discuss his book, "The Messenger: The Rise and Fall of Elijah Muhammad." The author made a case for the Nation of Islam leader's resilience in the face of years of monitoring by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. But then, Mr. Evanzz, as others have, accused Elijah Muhammad of being the father of several illegitimate children.
A livid caller lashed out at Mr. Evanzz, an on-line editor at The Washington Post. "The Messenger was 100 percent true to what he taught until his departure in 1974," the caller said. "This F.B.I. business about producing children at Temple 2, a temple which is full of hypocrites since the 1930's, making children by sisters and charging the messenger with this evil. So this person writing this book does not have his facts. Stop slandering the Honorable Elijah Muhammad."
Callers on black talk radio stations, not unlike on other radio stations, can be unpredictable. Several months after the fact, Mark from Brooklyn wanted to talk about the Klan's anemic march in downtown Manhattan, although Utrice Leid, the host of Talk Back, a call-in show on WBAI, was discussing Hillary Rodham Clinton's run for the United States Senate.
"When the Klan was marching I didn't see no responsible black leadership speaking against the Klan," Mark said. "Did you notice anybody?
"I mean, maybe it's just me. Those same voices that said, 'Oh, no, Khallid this, Sharpton that, and Farrakhan, the other one' and always the ones denouncing. I ain't seen those same voices saying no they shouldn't march. It's just one of those things that make you say hmmmm."
Laughing, Ms. Leid said: "Did you say hmmmm?
"I said hmmmm," Mark said.
And on to the next caller.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some copies on Friday about radio talk shows geared toward black listeners in New York City referred incorrectly to Conrad Muhammad, the host of the program "One on One" on WLIB. He is no longer the minister of the Nation of Islam's Mosque No. 7 in Harlem.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Slade, left, of WRKS-FM, and Mark Riley of WLIB-AM field calls that can range from the particulars of the Amadou Diallo shooting to a discussion of a listener's difficulty hailing a cab. (Clockwise from above: The New York Times hailing a cab ; (Associated Press Kadiatou and Saikou Diallo ; The New York Times Abner Louima ; Reuters Princeville, N.C., flood ; The New York Times Ku Klux Klan protesters, Rudy Crew ; center left, Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times; center right, Gary Dunkin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WLIB (NYC RADIO STATION); WBAI (NYC RADIO STATION); WWRL (NYC RADIO STATION); WRKS-FM (NYC RADIO STATION) WRKS-FM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WLIB (NYC RADIO STATION); WBAI (NYC RADIO STATION); WWRL (NYC RADIO STATION); WRKS-FM (NYC RADIO STATION)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; BLACKS RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MAYORS (76%); RAP MUSIC (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); RECORD INDUSTRY (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ARRESTS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (55%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE RUDY CREW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



528 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Is the Internet Endangering Sales Jobs?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
For Joe Moriarty, a computer consultant from Parsippany, N.J., it was as easy as point and click to buy his small share of the $3 billion in three-year notes sold by the World Bank yesterday.
The new issue, with lead underwriters from Goldman, Sachs & Company and Lehman Brothers, broke more Internet ground by taking a global bond offering to the retail investor for the first time. 
 At the same time, the use of the Internet for bond issues, which is the direction the corporate bond market is moving, is raising a question about the future role of sales representatives on Wall Street -- the people who have dealt with customers for years, providing information and points of view, taking orders and sometimes just holding their hands.
Victor Simone, Goldman's managing director for e-commerce, said: "We do not envision a world without salespeople. We don't want our customers to order on the Internet and then not hear from them again."
But Tim Bacik, a fixed-income portfolio manager at Alliance Capital who bought World Bank notes through the Internet yesterday, said, "It appears that the role of the salesperson as it currently exists will be diminished by the Internet." One of the key roles that would be cut out is the provider of information on a bond sale, because all of that can now be posted on an Internet Web site.
In explaining why Alliance used the Internet rather than the traditional phone dealings with a sales representative, he said, "We believe that the corporate bond market is moving in this direction and we want to keep on top of this development." He did say that because Wall Street was still learning about Internet sales, his transaction was backed up by a call from a sales representative.
About one-third of the new World Bank notes were sold over the Internet, bought by the traditional large institutional investors that always show up and the middle-level institutional investor, including insurance companies and banks, and the retail investor, which the World Bank was making an extra effort to reach to broaden its audience.
The retail sales were done through www.schwabbondsource.com, the bond Web site for Charles Schwab. A Schwab spokeswoman said that about 400 customers ordered the notes, with a third of those coming over the Internet. The total sales were about $100 million.
Mr. Moriarty, who said he was buying notes to help rebalance his equity-heavy portfolio to 50 percent stocks and 50 percent bonds, said he would not have bought the World Bank issue any other way. "I don't have a financial relationship with any financial house dealing in bonds," he said. He got his information on the bond sale, including the expected yield, from the same Web site. But he was informed of the coming sale, he said, by postcard.
The World Bank notes, which are rated AAA, were priced to yield 7.122 percent, 48.5 basis points, or hundredths of one percentage point, over the comparable Treasury issue.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Jan. 21 about the sale of $3 billion in notes by the World Bank misidentified the first issuer of a debt offering to retail investors through the Internet. It is Fannie Mae, the former Federal National Mortgage Association.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; LABOR SALES FORCE (91%); BONDS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INSURANCE (73%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); 

PERSON: SIMONE, VICTOR; BACIK, TIM; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN JOE MORIARTY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000



529 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: He's a Gadfly Who Stings Right and Left With Passion

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

 BODY:
Like the liberals he often excoriates, the economist Jagdish Bhagwati passionately deplores child labor, inadequate wages and the failure to enforce antipollution laws in the developing world.
At the same time, Mr. Bhagwati, a committed free trader, opposes the enforcement of intellectual property rights -- software copyrights, for example -- in countries like India and Brazil. And he argues that laws against illegal immigrants already inside the United States are "pointless." Leave them alone if they are already here, he says; immigrants help the United States maintain its edge in technology. 
 Forget political or ideological labels. Mr. Bhagwati, a professor of economics and political science at Columbia University, prefers to consider himself "a public nuisance," challenging established policies, stirring up protests and picking apart conventional beliefs.
He has never been shy about wading into the public arena. Most recently, Mr. Bhagwati, 65, gathered a group of scholars, labor leaders and activists from Africa, Latin America and Asia to sign a statement protesting the inclusion of labor and environmental standards in trade deals before the World Trade Organization met in Seattle last month.
In 1994 he organized a similar signature campaign on the eve of President Clinton's summit meeting with the Japanese prime minister, enlisting leading economists, including several Nobel Laureates, to urge Japan to reject United States demands for import targets. (Japan did just that.)
He has written or edited 40 books, written hundreds of articles, and founded and edited two journals, Economics and Politics and The Journal of International Economics. He is a favorite on evening news programs like ABC's and on talk shows like PBS's DebatesDebates, where he delights in skewering Ross Perot, Pat Buchanan and fellow economists with pointed one-liners. "If the W.T.O. is dead, then necrophilia must be breaking out," he said during a taping of DebatesDebates last week.
Wearing an olive green shirt open at the neck and a blue Kenzo designer suit coat, Mr. Bhagwati spoke with flamboyant animation in a makeup room after the taping.
Profits are fine, but not enough, he said. Mr. Bhagwati also says he wants to make the world a better place. Born in Bombay, he studied economics at Cambridge and Oxford universities. He said his older brother, P. N. Bhagwati, retired chief justice of the Supreme Court in India and a human rights advocate who supports stricter child labor laws, has had a lot of influence on his thinking; they still speak frequently.
Mr. Bhagwati believes that together democracy and free trade can deliver both economic growth and social reform, although he concedes that growth is not inevitable in a democracy.
He presents himself as the human face of global laissez-faire economics. Open societies can be created without using trade sanctions as a weapon, he insists. He places his faith in "voluntarism," which would rely on the global communications network and nongovernmental organizations to shame companies and governments into, for example, paying workers a living wage.
"Modern civil society, modern technology has made possible alternative instruments, other sorts of teeth," he said.
"Teeth doesn't mean just trade sanctions. People underestimate the potential of what can be done. Multinationals don't tend to abuse, to indulge in a race to the bottom. They don't exploit every loophole to damage the local guy in terms of their health and standards."
That's why he led the writing crusade before the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle, arguing that the group should be able to oversee trade without sticky intrusions that would force it to impose sanctions on countries that abuse workers rights. The spreading of wealth, he argues, along with these private efforts, will eventually create the working conditions and educational advancement common in the industrialized nations.
He works closely with Corporate Social Responsibility Standards, an organization that seeks to give public seals of approval to corporations that meet norms of social responsibility in their employment practices. "If you do anything egregious, all these lies will come out," he said. "People will write about, agitate about it. Big firms can not afford it anymore."
He adds that global standards, like environmental controls, don't make sense for other reasons as well.
Admitting that he has no good answer to Mexico City's pollution ("forget about Mexico City, which has horrible environmental problems"), he proceeds to argue that different countries have the right to set different priorities.
"Take the rest of Mexico that has very bad water, but the environment is a lot cleaner," he said. "We have it the reverse way. All our children carry around Perrier bottles. Our water is a lot better, but our air is not necessarily that good. Our priorities are different, exactly the opposite. Even if we attach the same preference to environmental spending, it is conceivable that the Mexican priority will be to clean up water while we would want to clean up air."
To Mr. Bhagwati's critics, however, he is less of an original thinker than a confused one. "His departures from laissez-faire economics make him inconsistent," says Robert Kuttner, the co-editor of The American Prospect magazine. "Why is it that money is not seen by him as another commodity? Why does he oppose the standard view on intellectual property rights? All this is rooted in a real concern for the third world, but does not in the end make him a high theorist."
Mark Levinson, the chief economist at Union of Needle Trades Industrial and Textile Employees, said: "He opposes linking labor rights or environmental protection to trade and investment agreements. In a global economy that is becoming increasingly integrated, this position is irresponsible. Wages are not rising in the many parts of the developing world because workers are denied the right to organize.
"Trade and investment by itself will not raise living standards," he continued. "Look at El Salvador, Honduras, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. These countries have posted high employment gains in the apparel industry while real wages have declined. In China, foreign investment in the apparel sector has lowered wages and working standards. The suppression of wages and failure to enforce environmental standards creates a powerful incentive to move jobs overseas."
Mr. Bhagwati is unfazed by criticism. He goes out of his way to avoid simmering fights, often calling critics after reading an attack on his work to compliment them on their good points and assure them that he was not offended.
By the same token, he has not curbed his own sharp tongue. He admits that, like many good rhetoricians, he plans his verbal thrusts in advance. (He said he regretted that in Seattle he was unable to chide Ralph Nader, the leader of a campaign against the World Trade Organization and the author of "Unsafe at Any Speed," for believing that "the W.T.O. is unsafe in any form.' ")
To Mr. Bhagwati, many people in the United States have fallen prey to what he calls the "diminished giant syndrome": a fear that free trade accelerates the flight of jobs. Blue-collar jobs, he says, have been lost primarily to new technologies.
He warns that the overheated American economy is headed for a dislocation, in part because surges and dips in the market "are built into human nature. "I am more than a little worried," he said. "There is so much consumption being built on this. It is really going to take a big tumble, because people are building capacities based on this." He attributes the success of vaunted huge investors like George Soros to "good luck" and the ability to "take big bets," dismissing any formula to understand the ultimate workings of financial markets.
Still, he adds: "The economy that really worries me is China. As they get into more democratization, as they are bound to, they can't resist these pressures. There is going to be some upheaval within the Communist Party. It will spill over into extensive fights about things like privatization. It will be much more difficult to handle."
As for his own role in such debates, Mr. Bhagwati says: "If you want to be in the public domain, you need the courage to be unconventional. Logic is not enough. You need wit, irony, good anecdotes and sarcasm. It always works."
"I have been alone, but I hang in there," he said, adding with his familiar mischievousness, "Usually the world comes around."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Challenging convention: Jagdish Bhagwati, professor of economics and political science at Columbia. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (72%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHILD LABOR (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); NUISANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



530 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Helping Cuban Families Is in America's Interest

BYLINE: By Bernard W. Aronson and William D. Rogers; Bernard W. Aronson and William D. Rogers, former assistant secretaries of state, are co-chairmen of a Council on Foreign Relations task force on American-Cuban relations.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Elian Gonzalez's fate whether he returns to his father, possibly with his two grandmothers, who are now on American soil, or remains with relatives in Miami -- may be decided by federal courts, ruling on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's determination that only the father in Cuba speaks for the son. Whatever the outcome, we hope that the two families will be able to carry out the will of the court peacefully and privately, in the best interest of the child.
But Elian's case also offers an opportunity for the president and the secretary of state to adopt a comprehensive policy of family reunification for divided Cuban families, easing the plight of many whose stories are less visible but whose suffering is just as real. Four steps should be taken. 
 First, the United States should lift all restrictions on travel to Cuba by Cubans living in the United States. Cuban-Americans are the only immigrant community in the United States subject to government regulation of their relations with families in their home countries. If the I.N.S. decision is upheld and Elian returns to his father in Cuba, under current American policy his Florida relatives will only be able to visit him in a humanitarian emergency, and then only once a year.
Many Cuban-Americans do travel more than once a year to Cuba, but they are forced to choose between maintaining family ties and flouting American law. The policy of the United States government should be to strengthen family ties, not to weaken them.
Second, the United States should do more to facilitate visits by Cuban citizens with their relatives here. Current policy on temporary visas treats Cuban applicants like those from other foreign countries, using criteria like salary, types of bank accounts and property ownership to estimate their likelihood of returning home voluntarily. The nature of the Cuban economy makes these standards prohibitive for most Cuban applicants.
Recent spot checks by the United States Interests Section in Havana have found a surprisingly high rate of return to the island among those who visit here -- a finding that should ease the anxiety of consular officials who are trained, perhaps correctly, to assume that most visitors from poor countries will try to remain here. Cuban applicants with letters of invitation from relatives in the United States and with no criminal records should be processed as quickly and favorably as possible.
Third, we can reduce the incentive to enter this country illegally by forcefully prosecuting the burgeoning smuggling business. Smugglers take advantage of the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act that allows any Cuban reaching our shores the right to work upon arrival and to permanent residence after one year. Agreements reached between Cuba and the United States in 1994 and 1995 call for Cuba to police its borders and for the United States to send back any Cuban intercepted at sea. Good-faith adherence to these agreements requires the United States to crack down on the callous smugglers who extract huge fees from desperate Cubans, too many of whom are lost at sea in the passage, as Elian Gonzalez's mother was.
Of course, the problem of illegal flight from Cuba today derives, in essence, from Fidel Castro's failed economic policies and repression of human rights. Ultimately, only a democratic Cuba with an economy open to the global marketplace will allow Cubans to face the future at home with hope.
But the United States could help the Cuban people now with a fourth action: raising the cap on remittances that Cuban-Americans can send their island relatives from the current $1,200 a year overall to $10,000 per Cuban household. Access to more dollars would reduce dependence on the Cuban state and provide greater opportunities to build up the small private sector on the island.
All of these family-first changes in United States policy would remove obstacles between Cuban families long divided by history. Taken together, they would be comprehensive and mutually reinforcing, substantially reducing the prospect that Cubans will risk their lives to seek our shores in greater and perhaps unmanageable numbers. Because they advance both good diplomacy and our national interests, we think they reflect a bipartisan consensus developing in Congress and the executive branch. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (84%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); SMUGGLING (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



531 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
It Seems to Be U.S. vs. the Other Six at the Group of 7 Meeting

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Against the backdrop of the record $26.5 billion United States trade deficit, the meeting of officials of the Group of Seven industrialized nations that will take place here Sunday has shaped up as a conflict between the United States and the others.
During a press briefing this evening, Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers repeatedly if diplomatically suggested that Japan and Europe were not pulling their weight in the global economy. "You can't have a balanced global economy without more growth in Europe and Japan," he said repeatedly. 
 Mr. Summers sought to portray the huge trade deficit as an endorsement of the United States economy, saying it was a demonstration of the financial strength of American companies and consumers as well as a result of capital inflows from abroad drawn to attractive American investment opportunities.
The economies in Asia and to a lesser extent Europe have pulled out of the economic doldrums through exports to the United States, running up huge current account surpluses in the process.
Mr. Summers called for a reversal of that trend. "For that to happen, it is important that all regions pursue appropriate economic policies, both in the macro-economy and structurally," he said.
Suspicion is rising among United States officials that their European counterparts are deliberately turning a blind eye to the weakness of the euro, which makes European exports to the United States cheaper, rather than adopting more politically difficult policies like altering their social welfare benefits and their labor laws.
The Japanese have the opposite problem: The yen is strong, at least in part because of the United States trade deficit. They are thus pushing the officials at the meeting to issue a statement of at least mild concern about the current relationship between the world's three dominant currencies.
The Europeans, on the other hand, do not want to see the phrase "exchange rates" at all in the communique that will be issued after the meeting.
And neither Europe nor Japan, which is slowly crawling out of a deep recession, has much sympathy for the United States, with its strong dollar, booming stock market, low unemployment and low inflation.
The Treasury Secretary also met today with Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan and commended him on Japan's nascent economic recovery, although he reiterated longstanding demands that Japan do more to encourage domestic consumption and promote structural changes in its economy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (95%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (95%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); RECESSION (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); US DOLLAR (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



532 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Blue Chips Falter as Nasdaq Sets Another Record High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The stock market diverged yesterday for the fourth time this week as consumer and industrial companies faltered while telecommunications and computer-related shares rallied, sending the Nasdaq composite index to another record high.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell, led by Procter & Gamble, after a report that the consumer-products company's board would consider buying the drugmakers American Home Products and Warner-Lambert. 
 The Nasdaq climbed, led by the computer networking equipment maker Cisco Systems and the semiconductor maker Intel. The Nasdaq stock market had its busiest day ever, topping Thursday's record, as 1.91 billion shares changed hands, according to Nasdaq. The Nasdaq composite index rose 45.89 points, or 1.1 percent, to 4,235.40.
"The earnings growth for Nasdaq companies is higher than Dow companies," said Christian Koch, senior market analyst at Trusco Capital Management in Atlanta. "Some Nasdaq companies are growing at high double digits or even triple digits."
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 99.59 points, or 0.88 percent, to 11,251.71. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.21 points, to 1,441.36.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 14/32, to 92 22/32, on speculation that interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve in coming months will curb inflation. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.70 percent from 6.74 percent on Thursday.
Procter & Gamble, the maker of household goods, fell 9 5/16, to 103 1/4. The company is considering buying American Home and Warner-Lambert, which have agreed to merge even as Pfizer tries to acquire Warner-Lambert.
Procter & Gamble has dropped 8.8 percent since reports Wednesday that Warner-Lambert had approached the company about a merger.
"Investors are scared that P.& G. will take its eye off the ball in terms of Pringles and Tide and get into a business" that is not its specialty, Mr. Koch of Trusco Capital Management said. "The market's saying that it's diluting its core business."
Warner-Lambert fell 7/8, to 92; American Home climbed 1 7/8, to 48, and Pfizer fell 11/16, to 35 1/8.
PMC-Sierra jumped 16 3/4, to 191 1/4. The maker of chips that run networking and telecommunications equipment reported fourth-quarter profit that exceeded the average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. It also plans a 2-for-1 stock split.
Oil stocks, including Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Petroleum, jumped as crude oil climbed for a ninth consecutive day. Frigid weather in the Northeast increased demand for heating fuel even as producers are restricting oil supplies to refiners.
Exxon Mobil rose 1 5/16, to 85, and Royal Dutch gained 1 3/8, to 59 3/4. Schlumberger advanced 1 7/16, to 66.
 Cisco was up 2 7/8 at 115 1/4 and Intel gained 2 5/16, to 97 15/16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (84%); PG (NYSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (84%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (60%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (84%); PFIZER INC (83%); INTEL CORP (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MERGERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN KOCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



533 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Earnings Off 21%, Clouding theOutlook for This Year

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., the maker of construction and earth-moving equipment, said today that its fourth-quarter profit fell 21 percent from a year earlier largely because of slowing demand in North America and Latin America.
The company, which had warned of a fourth-quarter profit slowdown in November, said that it now expected a modest recovery this year. 
 "In 2000, we anticipate sales and revenues and profits will improve, with higher sales expected in every region of the world except North America," Glen Barton, the chief executive at Caterpillar said in a statement. "We'll continue to carefully manage costs and move forward with our growth initiatives while delivering solid financial results."
Wall Street analysts, however, said that company executives encouraged them to lower their 2000 earnings expectations today and that the company is now expecting a sales and profit gain of up to 7 percent this year, not the 20 percent gain analysts were projecting.
"They had given overly optimistic guidance in 1998 and 1999 and then the stock underperformed for two years because of quarter after quarter of profit slowdowns," said David Bluestein, an analyst at Prudential Securities.
Shares of Caterpillar rose 25 cents today, to $47.375, on the New York Stock Exchange. For the week, shares of Caterpillar were down 8.7 percent.
The company, which has repeatedly warned of earnings slowdowns in the last year, said that it earned $239 million, or 67 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $5.02 billion in the fourth quarter of 1999. The results were slightly above Wall Street's reduced expectations of 64 cents a share. In the fourth quarter of 1998, Caterpillar had profits of $301 million, or 83 cents, on revenue of $5.4 billion.
For the year, Caterpillar earned $964 million, or $2.63 a share, on revenue of $19.7 billion, down from $20.9 billion a year ago, when profits topped $1.5 billion.
Besides the slowdown in the Americas, the company blamed a strong dollar, weaker sales of more expensive machinery and efforts to trim inventory as the cause for the decline.
Caterpillar did, however, have record demand for its truck engines in 1999 and strong growth in its financial products division, like its insurance offerings.
Weaker commodity prices and a slowdown in construction and the home building boom in the United States are expected to be offset this year by a global recovery creating stronger demand for construction and earth-moving equipment.
Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill., had been suffering from an Asian recession and a drop in demand for its mining machinery in 1997 and 1998. But executives said that a recovery in the rest of the world, which began in 1998, will more than offset a slowdown in North America, where about 50 percent of its products are sold.
Analysts say a sharp drop in truck sales could also clip strong truck engine sales at Caterpillar this year.
Wall Street analysts, who just over a year ago were forecasting profits of about $5 a share in the year 2000, are now expecting gains of about $2 to $3 a share, down from estimates earlier this week of about $3.20 a share.
Yet Wall Street is holding out hope for a stronger-than-expected recovery at Caterpillar.
"Generally speaking, the market for construction equipment in America is not very good," said Tobias Levkovich, a Salomon Smith Barney analyst. "But international sales may come back and mining may come back. The earnings estimates will come down, but I think the company is being very, very conservative." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (98%); CATR (PAR) (98%); CAT (SWX) (98%); CAT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (CAT) CATERPILLAR INC (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC (CAT)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



534 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Urban Sprawl As a Way To Save Trees

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
IF you are a lover of wilderness, you may have a hard time appreciating the ecological beauty of Co-op City. You probably have a hard time imagining Donald Trump as a savior of species, or seeing Ben and Jerry as environmental menaces.
But you might reconsider after reading Peter Huber's new paean to nature, "Hard Green: Saving the Environment from the Environmentalists" (Basic Books). If your highest priority is to save the wilderness and preserve species, Dr. Huber argues, you have to move people off the land and pack them into cities. 
 "It is greener to live in Trump Tower than on a 40-acre farm in Vermont," said Dr. Huber, a former professor of engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is now a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization. "The only way to save the wilderness is reduce the human footprint on the land by living vertically instead of horizontally."
Dr. Huber calls himself a Hard Green to distinguish himself from mainstream environmentalists. He shares their desire for bigger national parks, but he thinks they're unwittingly hurting their own cause. "If we followed the Soft Greens' policies for renewable energy and agriculture," Dr. Huber said, "most of New York State would have to be covered with organic farms and solar cells in order to support New York City. To live vertically, you need food from compact high-yield farms and fuels from below the surface."
Vast forests in New York and other states were felled by pioneers, the original organic farmers, to feed their families and their livestock. More than a quarter of the farmland was devoted to turning solar energy into the renewable fuel powering their transportation system: the grasses and grains eaten by horses.
But in recent decades, many of those fields have reverted to wilderness because they are no longer needed to grow food or fuel. Over the past quarter-century, Dr. Huber estimates, the country has gained 70 million acres of wilderness, more than all the land occupied by cities, suburbs, roads and any other kind of development.
Where Soft Greens see "urban sprawl" destroying the countryside, Dr. Huber sees cities absorbing the farmers who once destroyed the wilderness. "It's true that we lose a little green space at the edge of cities as suburbs grow," Dr. Huber said, "but that loss is more than offset by all the wilderness gained from the farms abandoned farther away." You might think of New York City and its suburbs as the antidote to rural sprawl.
WHERE Soft Greens fret about the risks from factory farms and pesticides and genetically engineered plants, Dr. Huber exults in the land saved by new technologies. "If you care about the open range, you should recoil from free-range chicken on the menu," Dr. Huber said. "You should prefer chickens living in the agribusiness equivalent of Trump Tower. If you care about seeing more of the Vermont woods of Robert Frost, you should think twice about eating Ben & Jerry's ice cream."
Ben & Jerry's prides itself on getting milk from small family farms in Vermont, and it opposes the use of a synthetic growth hormone to increase each cow's output. "If farmers used that hormone, they wouldn't need so many cows," Dr. Huber said, "so some of the farms could revert to forests. There would also be fewer cows emitting methane, which is one of the most powerful greenhouse gases."
His argument did not impress Liz Bankowski, the senior director for social mission development at Ben & Jerry's. "We think the hormone could have negative consequences for the cows," she said, "and we don't want to increase milk production if it puts family farms out of business. Losing small farms is not in the environmental or economic interest of Vermont."
Dr. Huber acknowledges that Hard Green technologies pose social and environmental problems. "You have to deal with pollution and other issues," he said, "but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits of creating so much new wilderness. You have to keep things in perspective."
Similarly, he said, Soft Greens ought to keep the big picture in mind when contemplating proposals to stop urban sprawl.
"You may want to stop someone from building new homes near you because the extra crowding reduces your quality of life," he said. "But it's a fraud to confuse your self-interest with what is good for the planet. If you make it harder for people to move to cities and suburbs, they'll end up in places where cougars and eagles could be living." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BJIC (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NATIONAL PARKS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (87%); ORGANIC FOODS (86%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); WILDERNESS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (75%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); FACTORY FARMS (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (69%); BIOFUELS (69%); PESTICIDES (69%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (65%); POULTRY (64%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



535 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Seek U.S. Subsidies To Help the Poor Get Online

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Jan. 21

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to seek federal subsidies to help the poor buy computers and connect to the Internet, one of a number of initiatives to be included in his State of the Union address to narrow what many call the digital divide, White House aides said today.
Although the program is still being put together, the White House is considering an initiative to offer roughly $50 million in competitive grants to local communities and organizations that are involved in efforts to help low-income families go online. 
 Mr. Clinton set a goal last year of connecting everyone in the United States to the Internet, in schools, libraries and businesses as well as private homes. Later this year the president plans to take a third "new markets" tour to highlight communities left behind in the nation's economic boom. The trip will focus on the digital divide and involve leaders in the computer industry.
The initiative to increase computer usage among low-income families is not intended to create more video game addicts or chat room participants. Instead, as Mr. Clinton said in December, connecting more Americans to computers would help "to link children and adults to a lifetime of learning, to provide access to distant medical care, to empower parents, to assist job-seekers, to enhance safety and foster economic development."
The president is relatively new to the Internet himself. In a speech today announcing increased financing for scientific research, he told students at the California Institute of Technology that he was technically challenged but was trying to get in touch with his "inner nerd."
"My staff challenged me to actually order Christmas gifts over the Internet, and I did that," Mr. Clinton said. "And while doing that, I learned that with just a click of a mouse, I could actually order -- and I did this, I'm embarrassed to say -- I ordered Arkansas smoked ham and sausage delivered to my door."
Computer executives in the Silicon Valley have proposed a program called ClickStart, with the goal of connecting millions of impoverished Americans to the Internet.
The initiative, which the company officials pushed in a meeting with presidential aides last month, proposes to subsidize through a voucher system both computer hardware and Internet access.
Each recipient would pay about $5 a month and get a $10 monthly federal subsidy in the form of a voucher that could be used to buy hardware and Internet access from any vendor participating in the program, organizers said.
"This is all clearly self-serving at some level because all of us in the industry benefit by having more customers," said Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Novell and an organizer of the program. "All technology literacy programs have a self-serving component to them, and if I state that up front it takes that off the table. I happen to believe it's good for society, and for our industry."
A Commerce Department study made public last year found that black and Hispanic families were only two-fifths as likely to have Internet access as white households. Families with incomes of $75,000 or more in urban areas are more than 20 times as likely to have Internet access as the poorest households. Rural areas feature the lowest percentage of connected households.
Education is another big factor. People with a college degree are more than eight times as likely to have a computer at home and nearly 16 times as likely to have home Internet access as those with an elementary school education.
The administration says more than half of the nation's schools and more than 80 percent of its classrooms are wired for the Internet. The goal is to have all schools connected by the end of this year.
"Every day that passes, there are children not being exposed to PC's and the Internet," said Nick Grouf, chief executive of PeoplePC, a company in San Francisco that sells low-cost computer systems. "That means they are de facto being left out of the economy 10 to 15 years from now, and that's a very frightening prospect." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOVL (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (50%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (74%); CHAT ROOMS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CHRISTMAS (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



536 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Bush Firms Up 'Soft' Anti-Abortion Stance

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI with LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Attacked by his more conservative opponents as being equivocal on abortion, Gov. George W. Bush declared today that the Supreme Court in its landmark Roe v. Wade decision had "stepped across its bounds and usurped the right of legislatures."
Although the comment itself was not a striking shift for Mr. Bush, who has always been opposed to abortion, it came on the second day in a row in which he has been pressed to discuss the issue, and it seemed to highlight the influence that social and religious conservatives have traditionally held in the Republican caucuses here. 
 With the caucuses only three days away, both Mr. Bush and his main challenger here, Steve Forbes, made strong appeals to conservatives, with Mr. Bush delivering pious remarks to recovering drug and alcohol abusers as Mr. Forbes continued to attack Mr. Bush's abortion positions as not strong enough.
Standing in the pulpit of a chapel at a faith-based rehabilitation center in Colfax, Mr. Bush told several dozen men that he once had his own problems with alcohol and had moved past them with the aid of his religion.
"I'm on a walk, just like you are," Mr. Bush said this morning. "I'm on a walk. And it's a never-ending walk, as far as I'm concerned."
Then, referring to one of the nation's most prominent Christian preachers, Mr. Bush added: "I used to drink too much, and I quit drinking, and I believe it was because Billy Graham planted a seed in my heart one time. It wasn't Billy; he was the messenger. So I want you to know your life's walk is shared by a lot of other people, even some who wear suits."
Mr. Forbes, the wealthy magazine publisher who is running second to Mr. Bush in polls in Iowa, continued, meanwhile, to present himself as the voice of true moral conservatism.
Speaking in Cedar Rapids, Mr. Forbes complained that Mr. Bush was a "strong moderate" who "would not give a direct answer" on such conservative goals as the repeal of Roe v. Wade. And he criticized Mr. Bush for not pledging to have an anti-abortion running mate or appoint only anti-abortion judges.
"Bush won't give a real answer on Roe v. Wade, " Mr. Forbes said. "He ducked on that and he ducked on the judges."
The dynamic between the two men illustrated the rightward tilt of the Republican debate as the candidates focus their time and energy in this state over the days leading up to the precinct caucuses on Monday.
In New Hampshire, which holds its primary on Feb. 1, Mr. Bush generally pays slightly less heed to moral issues and more to economic ones, engaging, for example, in a duel over tax cuts with Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has done almost no campaigning in Iowa.
But the altered tenor of the Republican appeals in Iowa is likely to repeat itself in South Carolina, the next major contest after New Hampshire. Like Iowa, South Carolina is fertile soil for socially conservative views. Campaigning there today, Mr. McCain was sharply questioned about his position on abortion at a town-hall meeting.
The senator called the Supreme Court decision that created a legal right to abortion "overreaching" but said his opposition to abortion would not extend to cases of rape and incest.
On the related issue of fetal tissue research, Mr. McCain said he had voted in Congress for a ban on such research but changed his position after Representative Morris K. Udall, his friend, died of Parkinson's disease and Mr. Udall's daughter told him that fetal tissue research might help find a cure.
Mr. Bush, too, has been pressed about abortion in the last few days, in part because of statements that Mr. Forbes has made on the stump. And Mr. Bush has made it clearer than he has on some other occasions that he strongly disapproves of the 1973 Supreme Court decision in the case of Roe v. Wade, which established the right to abortion.
"I felt like it was a case where the court took the place of what the legislatures do in America," Mr. Bush said in Colfax today, repeating his comments of Thursday. "That's the case where the court stepped across its bounds and usurped the right of legislatures."
But when asked whether he thought the decision should be overturned, Mr. Bush said, "It should be up to each legislature."
The answer seemed to reflect Mr. Bush's carefully calibrated position on a constitutional amendment to ban abortion: he favors one, but has said he would not fight for it because the requisite public support does not exist.
Mr. Bush's response also underscored the challenge he faces as he navigates the primaries. If he veers too far to the right, he risks losing the kind of centrist appeal he will need to win the general election.
Mr. Bush seems acutely aware of that, although his advisers say he is simply holding to his longstanding views.
In the Republican debates over the last few weeks, he has resisted rightward tugs from his rivals on several issues. He declined to call for a reinstatement of the ban on gays in the military, nor would he vow that any judges he nominated to the Supreme Court be opposed to abortion.
But Mr. Bush's pitch in Iowa this week has been undeniably different from his appeal in New Hampshire, whose voters love a good tax cut. There, Mr. Bush put the bulk of his oratorical muscle into selling his plan to slash taxes by $483 billion over the next five years. Here, Mr. Bush has discussed that proposal less thoroughly, and used some of the time left over to talk about morality and family.
The difference has been fairly subtle; most of Mr. Bush's campaign appearances here since he arrived on Wednesday night have not had religious overtones. But his aides here have distributed a pamphlet that calls attention to Mr. Bush's support from the National Right to Life Committee. The pamphlet includes an open letter from Mr. Bush, in which he reflects on religion and on his friendship with Mr. Graham.
Mr. Bush writes: "My faith frees me; frees me to put the problems of the moment in proper perspective; frees me to make decisions that others might not like."
At the center in Colfax, before Mr. Bush proceeded to the chapel to make his remarks, he talked with several men in the program in a room dominated by an enormous, brilliantly colored mural featuring an image of Jesus Christ, whose outstretched arm hovered almost directly over Mr. Bush's head.
Mr. Bush may need the votes of many Christian conservatives to meet or exceed the lofty expectations for a resounding victory here. But several other candidates, including Mr. Forbes, Gary L. Bauer and Alan Keyes, are relying principally on these voters and wooing them more aggressively.
Mr. Forbes, seeking to establish himself as the sole conservative alternative to Mr. Bush, has called Mr. Bush a "pro-life pacifist" in public comments here this week and is running a television commercial in which a woman says: "If someone kills a pet, it's called a crime. If someone aborts a child, it's called a choice."
The potential power of religious voters was demonstrated in a recent poll by The Des Moines Register, which showed that over 40 percent of Iowa Republicans identified themselves as "born again" Christians. To succeed, Mr. Forbes must hold off Mr. Bush in his efforts to grab part of this bloc while not losing votes to candidates like Mr. Bauer and Mr. Keyes, who are perceived to be even more conservative than Mr. Forbes by many on the religious right.
Clearly aware of that possibility, Mr. Forbes urged conservatives here to rally around him as the conservative alternative to Mr. Bush.
"Since I have the strongest message, the broadest-based message," he said, "it is going to happen. We will do it. On Monday night, we will bring conservatives together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas took his campaign yesterday to a drug store in Grinnell, Iowa, where he mixed long answers and short orders. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Presenting himself as the voice of true moral conservatism, Steve Forbes campaigned yesterday in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, with his wife, Sabina. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ABORTION (93%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



537 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Invest Pension Funds Is Abandoned

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Trying to defuse a bitter standoff with the Giuliani administration, the Fisher real estate family and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter have abandoned plans for a private fund to invest $1 billion of public-employee pension money in New York real estate projects.
The Fishers and their partners decided it was better to cut their losses after administration officials denounced their proposed Knickerbocker Fund and threatened to make trouble for a separate deal: the Fishers' pending purchase of nine acres for a luxury project on the East River, near the United Nations. The Fishers, Morgan Stanley and the developer Sheldon Solow are currently negotiating a contract to buy the land for $630 million from Consolidated Edison. 
 While no one at City Hall would say so directly, people involved in the dispute suggested yesterday that the decision to abandon the Knickerbocker Fund appeared to have had the desired effect. City Hall officials were calling the Con Edison deal a private business matter that did not concern them. And one person involved with Knickerbocker said: "The word we got back was that the mayor was very pleased -- come home, all is forgiven."
Beyond the high financial stakes, the battle that erupted earlier this month quickly became embroiled in conspiracy theories and political charges and countercharges.
Administration officials accused City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, who oversees the pension funds, of promoting what they called a risky investment on behalf of the Fishers, who had contributed more than $92,000 toward Mr. Hevesi's probable mayoral campaign. Mr. Hevesi has angrily denied the assertions.
For their part, some supporters of the fund and aides to Mr. Hevesi suggested that the Giuliani administration cared less about the investment fund than about helping Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the developer who also owns The Daily News, try to wrest control of the Con Edison deal from the Fishers. Giuliani aides and Mr. Zuckerman dismissed that notion.
Whatever the source of the problem or the merits of the fund, the Fishers and Morgan Stanley had no stomach for a public brawl and quietly let City Hall officials know in recent days that they would kill the Knickerbocker Fund. "We're focused on the Con Edison project," Richard L. Fisher said in a terse statement yesterday.
The Fishers may have achieved peace with the Giuliani administration, but union leaders, who have long sought to invest pension funds in New York real estate projects that could generate jobs and tax revenues as well as profits for the funds, are angry about the outcome.
"The dissolution of this fund demonstrates gutter politics at work here," said Nick Mancuso, a pension fund trustee and secretary-treasurer of Teamsters Local 237. "We want to get a decent return and put some funds into the economy of New York. Why wouldn't we want to put money into New York City to preserve and protect our jobs?"
Both Mayor Giuliani and the comptroller have representatives on the boards of the police, firefighters, teachers and city employee pension funds, which have set aside 2 percent, or $1.8 billion, of their $92 billion in assets for so-called alternative investments -- like the Knickerbocker Fund -- that are intended to achieve a social purpose as well as a profit. Although the Giuliani administration initially favored the idea of alternative investments, it has in recent years tried to block them.
Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota declined to discuss the Fishers yesterday, saying the Knickerbocker proposal was an issue between the developers and Mr. Hevesi. But he said he was dismayed by what he said was an effort to ram the Knickerbocker proposal through without sufficient review or a competitive bidding process.
Given the boom and bust nature of real estate, he also questioned the wisdom of the fund's exclusive focus on New York City. "I'm totally confused about how the comptroller handled this entire issue," Mr. Lhota said yesterday. "The absence of process is a mystery."
But the comptroller's office and union pension trustees have said that the Giuliani administration has been involved in discussions about the Knickerbocker proposal over the last five months. Internal memos from the pension funds' adviser, Pacific Corporate Group, indicate that the review of the Knickerbocker proposal began last September.
Mr. Mancuso said he first talked to the Fishers about a real estate fund focused on New York City in early 1999. "I mentioned that for all the development going on in New York City, no developer had come to the pension funds. Maybe seven or eight months later, they put together a proposal."
Union leaders said the Giuliani administration had criticized the investment from the start. The dispute did not boil over, however, until the police pension fund tentatively approved an investment in Knickerbocker on Jan. 4, over the objections of the Giuliani representative.
The administration took action the next day, when Joseph B. Rose, the city's planning director, called Con Edison to say that the city's cooperation on rezoning the nine acres on the East Side would cease if the Fishers used pension money to buy the land. The Fishers said they had never intended to use money from the Knickerbocker Fund for the Con Ed project, but administration officials said they were concerned about that possibility.
"They realized they couldn't defeat the investment by voting, so they went to Plan B," said one executive who worked with the Knickerbocker Fund. In any event, anxious Con Edison executives told the Fishers to make the problem "go away."
Other pension fund advocates and members of the comptroller's staff suggested that the Giuliani administration was trying to help Mr. Zuckerman, with an eye toward gaining his support for the mayor's likely Senate campaign.
For his part, Mr. Zuckerman said he was oblivious to the dispute. "We made a very serious bid for the Con Ed land," he said. "Some very capable competitors won. I wish them well."
Since the telephone call by Mr. Rose came to light, the Giuliani administration has played down the Con Ed connection. "I don't care what happens between Con Ed and a consortium of private investors," Mr. Lhota said. "This is not connect the dots."
The contretemps stunned the Fishers, who have contributed more than $76,000 to Mr. Giuliani's political committees and enjoyed an especially good relationship with City Hall. Last week, the family decided to close down the Knickerbocker Fund, only days before the pension funds' adviser completed its review and recommended an investment in it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); ED (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN G HEVESI (76%); RICHARD L FISHER (55%); MORTIMER B ZUCKERMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



538 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Surging Profits May Indicate a Longer Lifefor the Bull Market

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
American companies are reporting a surge in profits, giving investors reason to hope that the aging bull market may have more life left.
With companies from Warner-Lambert to America Online turning in strong results, overall earnings growth for the Standard & Poor's 500 is on track to exceed 17 percent in 1999. The trend accelerated in the second half of the year. Earnings rose more than 22 percent in the third quarter and are now estimated to be up about 21 percent for the fourth, although many companies have not yet reported. 
 That growth rate is three times the long-term average of 7 percent, and a sharp increase from 1998, when earnings barely rose in large part because of the Asian financial crisis and the strike against General Motors. Furthermore, fourth-quarter results have handily surpassed the expectations of industry analysts on Wall Street, indicating a stronger economy than expected just a few months ago.
Those same industry analysts are projecting 17 percent growth in earnings in 2000, said Charles Hill, director of research for First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks analysts' estimates. "I think the die is cast through at least the first half of 2000 that we're going to get good earnings reports," he said.
For investors, who are increasingly nervous about lofty stock prices and rising interest rates, the earnings growth provides reason for optimism. Although even bullish stock market strategists say that rising interest rates may well crimp stocks for the next couple of months, stocks track corporate earnings over the long run.
In the short term, "you've got the classic tug of war with worries over rising rates against better-than-expected earnings," said Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist for Lehman Brothers. "But basically at the end of the road, you've got a very strong set of fundamentals that leads to a bull market that is now 10 years old."
Mr. Applegate, who for the last five years has been one of Wall Street's most consistently bullish -- and correct -- strategists, remains a bull. He says stocks should turn in double-digit percentage gains for the year, although there could be a sharp sell-off along the way because of interest rate fears.
Rising interest rates are considered bad for stocks, because they raise the cost of doing business and depress corporate earnings and because higher yields make bonds relatively more attractive than stocks to investors. As the rate on the 30-year Treasury bond has risen from less than 5 percent in 1998 to 6.7 percent today, the gap between bond yields and stock prices has loomed ever larger. Stocks are trading at historically high multiples of earnings, with the S.& P. 500 now selling for 25 times its estimated 2000 earnings.
Put another way, investing one dollar in a Treasury bond guarantees a return of almost 7 cents next year, while investing one dollar in the stock market buys only 4 cents of earnings. Of course, the stocks could appreciate far more, but generally speaking, stock investors are buying a stream of earnings.
Over time, the earnings streams on bonds and stocks have been roughly comparable. When they diverge, investors generally see opportunity in the cheaper asset, which in this case is bonds.
So far, investors are staying in stocks, counting on future earnings growth to make up the difference.
On the Nasdaq composite index, which is rich with technology companies, the relationship between earnings growth and valuations is even more striking. After gaining 86 percent last year, the Nasdaq stock basket trades at 125 times its companies' earnings of the last 12 months, according to Joseph Abbott, senior equity strategist at I.B.E.S. International.
That level is roughly eight times the historical average, leading some investors to worry that the United States is in a Japan-like stock market bubble. Japan's stock market roared ahead in the 1980's, fueled by a real estate frenzy and a belief that Japanese companies were far ahead of their foreign competitors, before crashing in 1990 as interest rates rose. A decade later, the stock market remains 50 percent off its 1989 peak.
Though the Nasdaq composite is extremely expensive, its companies are expected to grow 63 percent in 2000, about nine times the average growth in corporate earnings for the last 50 years recorded by First Call. Strong productivity increases, fast economic growth in the United States and huge investments in technology are driving the increase, said Robert Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Kemper Funds, which manages $40 billion in stocks.
"There's an unbelievable amount of pent-up demand for technology," Mr. Froehlich said. "In addition, productivity is increasing, and that's not going to slow down."
The strength in earnings sweeps across almost every sector of the economy, said Mr. Hill of First Call. Helped by high oil prices, energy companies have reported fourth-quarter earnings about double their 1998 levels. Financial companies are showing gains of roughly 30 percent, while technology companies, which were expected to be slowed as big customers cut spending in the fall because of fears of year-end computer problems, are reporting gains of 20 percent or more.
Mr. Abbott of I.B.E.S. said he was particularly impressed that fewer companies than usual had warned of earnings disappointments for the fourth quarter, while more companies had surpassed analysts' estimates. Although some major companies, notably Lucent Technologies, came in far short of expectations, the overall number of negative announcements was the lowest in the five years that I.B.E.S. has tracked quarterly warnings, Mr. Abbott said.
Another especially promising sign is the amount by which companies have exceeded analysts' expectations for the fourth quarter. Companies often guide Wall Street analysts to slightly lower profits than their internal expectations. As a result, companies typically report earnings gains that surpass analysts' estimates by about 3 percent, according to First Call.
In the fourth quarter, corporate results so far have been 7 percent ahead of expectations, Mr. Hill said. "It's clear we're going to beat the numbers by more than we normally do."
Still, some strategists remain wary that high interest rates may derail the stock market. Christine Callies, chief United States market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, predicts that the Federal Reserve will continue to raise short-term rates until stocks fall because the Fed is very concerned that market gains have led consumers to increase spending and overheat the economy.
In addition, some investors are worried that companies are pumping up their earnings by taking some profits on successful venture capital investments.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Standout Year"
Corporate earnings grew at a faster rate last year than in the previous two years.
 
Graph shows the year-over-year earnings and the growth for companies in the S. & P. 500, by quarter. (Source: First Call)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); AOL INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (83%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); 

PERSON: ROBERT FROEHLICH (56%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



539 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Procter & Gamble Meets In Pursuit of Drug Merger
The board of Procter & Gamble is considering pursuing merger talks with American Home Products and Warner-Lambert that would create one of the world's largest consumer products and drug companies.
It was not clear last night whether the Procter & Gamble board would decide to pursue talks with either of the companies. But several people close to the talks said they anticipated that the board would allow the three companies to continue discussions that started this week. As with any negotiations, no deal is guaranteed. If Procter & Gamble combined all three pharmaceutical businesses, the new drug business would be the second-largest prescription drug seller in the United States, behind the proposed combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. Page A1. 

Nasdaq Index Continues to Rise
Consumer and industrial stocks continued to falter, while the Nasdaq climbed again, led by telecommunications and computer shares. The Nasdaq composite index was up 45.89 points, to 4,235.40, as the Nasdaq stock market had its busiest day ever with 1.91 billion shares changing hands. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 99.59 points, to 11,251.71. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 4.21 points, to 1,441.36. C3.
 
Growth Issue for Economic Powers
The Tokyo meeting this weekend of the finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven leading industrial nations is shaping up as a conflict between the United States and the other economic powers. C2.
 
China Airlines Repairing Its Image
Sandy K. Y. Liu faces a formidable task as president of the airline, which had three crashes in the 1990's and needs a major reorganization to restore its image. And, the government has ordered the foundation that controls China Airlines to privatize. C2.
 
American International Heir Named
Maurice R. Greenberg, left, chairman and chief executive of American International Group, said his son, Evan G. Greenberg, would follow him as head of the company. The concern, which has operations in 130 countries, has had only two chief executives since it was founded in 1919 and Mr. Greenberg, 74, has no current plans to retire. C4.
 
Success of Sorts for Child's Camera
An inexpensive video camera for children that was introduced in 1987 has become a quirky favorite among some cultish filmmakers, but its investor, a New York inventor with a small design business, is intent on making it popular with children. B1.
 
Pro-Business Socialist to Lead Chile
Ricardo Lagos, poised to become the second Socialist president in Chile's history, expresses support for business and promises to govern as a Western European-style Socialist in the mold of former Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of Spain. C2.
 
Mexican Tycoon in Philip Morris
Carlos Slim Helu, the richest man in Mexico, has bought $90 million of stock in Philip Morris, as shares of the world's largest cigarette maker traded close to a four-year low. C2.
 
Pratt & Whitney to Cut 1,700 Jobs
The jet engine maker Pratt & Whitney is eliminating 1,700 additional jobs, mostly from its Connecticut-based manufacturing plants. The cuts are in addition to about 3,500 jobs the company has already eliminated. C3.
 
Scottish Bank Bolsters a Bid
Trying to bolster its hostile bid for National Westminster Bank, the Bank of Scotland said it would sell NatWest's life insurance unit to Prudential if it beats out its rival, the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, for control of NatWest, Britain's third-largest bank. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,251.71 down 99.59
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.7% down 0.04
The euro -- $1.009 down 0.01
The dollar -- 104.83 yen down 0.46
 
Graph shows the Nasdaq Composite since March 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (90%); PG (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (90%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHILE (92%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); PFIZER INC (58%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHILE (92%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); MERGERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



540 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Germans Push Their Man To Lead I.M.F.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
German officials have stepped up a campaign to install one of their own as head of the International Monetary Fund, using a lukewarm endorsement by President Clinton to rally support and break a three-month deadlock on selecting a new leader for the global financial institution.
The Germans have been citing a private telephone conversation between Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and Mr. Clinton as evidence of growing international support for Caio Koch-Weser, a technocratic deputy finance minister. 
 During a discussion about the succession at the monetary fund, Mr. Clinton gave Mr. Schroder the impression that the United States would not veto the German choice, provided that Germany persuaded all the other Europeans to back its candidate, German officials said.
In recent days, Mr. Schroder has put his prestige on the line to win backing for Mr. Koch-Weser, whom many European and American financial officials say they regard as a competent but uninspired choice for the job. The German leader has called in ambassadors based in Berlin and lobbied with his own counterparts worldwide, starting what some diplomats called an uncharacteristically aggressive German campaign for a key international post.
As with much else in the opaque process of selecting a leader for the monetary fund, American support was hardly clear-cut. Clinton administration officials confirm that the president did not threaten to veto Mr. Koch-Weser's candidacy when he spoke with Mr. Schroder, but said that should not be misread as indicating he backed the German for the job.
American officials say privately that they would prefer Europe to put forward another candidate.
The direct involvement of Mr. Schroder and the parsing of diplomatic conversations shows how sensitive the succession process at the monetary fund has become. In recent years, the fund has become a global political and financial force, negotiating with Russian and Indonesian leaders during crises in those countries and serving as the West's financial ambassador to developing nations.
But world leaders have had a difficult time agreeing on people to lead global institutions. Asian and Western nations argued for months over who should head the World Trade Organization before agreeing to split the term so that the rival candidates could serve successively.
European countries failed to back a single candidate to head their new central bank and eventually agreed to allow two contenders to serve truncated terms, as well. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development went without a chief for nine months while countries debated who should lead it.
Some fear that Germany's steadfast lobbying for Mr. Koch-Weser could produce a similarly muddled result for the monetary fund. Berlin has extracted commitments from several European partners to back Mr. Koch-Weser, people involved in the process said. But the commitments are often contingent on Germany's lining up support elsewhere.
Michel Camdessus, the Frenchman who currently heads the fund, leaves the post in mid-February, having announced his retirement in November. While it is still possible that a consensus candidate will emerge by then, it now seems more likely that the post will remain vacant for a time. That would leave Stanley Fischer, the No. 2 official and a naturalized American citizen, in charge.
German officials are determined to break the deadlock with their public lobbying effort. They say they are increasingly optimistic that Mr. Koch-Weser can get the necessary support.
Among big European countries, only France, which has had one of its own as head of the monetary fund for most of the fund's history, including the last 13 years, has declined to offer support to Mr. Koch-Weser, the officials say. Mr. Schroder was planning to meet with President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin in Paris to try to change their minds.
"It's too early to say for sure, but there is a quite positive feeling now," a German government official said. "Chancellor Schroder has upped the ante -- this is his choice for the job."
Germany, which has only recently begun pushing for a share of leadership posts at European and international institutions, views Mr. Koch-Weser as a logical choice for the monetary fund leadership.
Trained as an economist, he served as an officer at the World Bank, the fund's sister institution, for 26 years, specializing in health and development projects. One of his responsibilities was coordinating the World Bank's poverty-relief programs with similar efforts at the I.M.F.
For American officials, that is part of the problem. Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers has pushed to change the way the monetary fund operates, urging it to focus largely on managing financial crises, instead of relief for all but the poorest nations. Mr. Koch-Weser is not the ideal person to carry out such changes, the American thinking goes.
Some European officials also say they wonder if Mr. Koch-Weser has the stature to go head-to-head with the likes of Boris N. Yeltsin, the former Russian leader, or former President Suharto of Indonesia. Both their governments resisted the application of economic reforms urged on them by the monetary fund in return for foreign aid -- requiring regular intervention by Mr. Camdessus.
Still, the vigorous German backing for Mr. Koch-Weser has given his candidacy an air of inevitability. Germany would be reluctant to step aside, and fellow Europeans would be reluctant to openly challenge the German choice, unless a rival who clearly outranks Mr. Koch-Weser -- like a seasoned central banker, a finance minister or a prime minister -- threw his or her hat into the ring.
Such an outcome is still possible. Britain's Chancellor of the Exche-
quer, Gordon Brown, has been widely mentioned as an alternative, but has not publicly shown interest in the job. Several Italian leaders, including the country's foreign minister and treasury director, have also been named as possible monetary fund chiefs, but are regarded as unlikely to enter the race unless Germany backs off.
The only other publicly declared candidate for the job is Eisuke Sakakibara, a former vice finance minister of Japan. Though highly regarded in Tokyo, he is given little chance of winning. Europeans have traditionally led the monetary fund, as Americans have led the World Bank, and Europe is not seen as ready to cede the post.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Caio Koch-Weser, a German deputy finance minister, elicits less than enthusiasm in Washington. (Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: GERMANY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); VETO (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (PREMIER) BILL CLINTON (91%); GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



541 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE BUSH RECORD;
With Help From Democrats, Bush Managed a Coup on Abortion Bill

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Maybe the most surprising thing George W. Bush accomplished last year had nothing to do with fund-raising. He got Texas Democrats to pass an abortion bill that they had opposed for decades -- and to effectively help him mollify the Christian right in his state.
At least a few Democrats seem to have pitched in expressly for the good of the governor's political future. "I wanted to help him and his presidential aspirations because I just like him," said one House Democrat, who like others was happy to help but unwilling to be named in print. 
 In the last week leading up to the Iowa caucuses, however, Mr. Bush is being challenged on the abortion issue on a whole new level. The governor's Republican rivals have spent a lot of time trying to outdo one another in branding him as only a halfhearted opponent of abortion rights -- "a pro-life pacifist," as Steve Forbes put it.
And when Mr. Bush answered a reporter's question here about how he would respond to a friend who had been raped and was considering an abortion by saying, "It's up to her," his opponents said the remark had confirmed their suspicions.
In answering the critics, Mr. Bush pointed to his record in his home state, and specifically to his work on passing a parental notification bill.
In Texas, the governor's real coup on the abortion front seems to have been in keeping his position enough of a mystery that both sides remain convinced that in his heart of hearts, he agrees with them.
But even some of the purest anti-abortion crusaders there offer pretty compelling arguments that in practice, Mr. Bush has been on their side. And the fact that even on abortion -- the hottest hot-button issue there is -- he has been able to keep both sides convinced he is in their corner is at least clear proof of his political skills.
Because Democrats control the Texas House, the parental notification bill that was passed last May could not have become law, or even come to a vote, without them. It was the governor, though, who pushed the measure, which requires doctors to notify the parents of minors seeking an abortion.
"It was very high on his agenda," said Representative Patricia Gray, a Democrat from Galveston, who proposed an alternative bill that would have allowed girls to notify relatives other than their parents.
"He wanted a really tough bill that would satisfy those folks on the right," Ms. Gray said, "and now we have the toughest notification bill in the country."
The governor's efforts dramatically buffed his image with the religious right in Texas, a crowd that had never been quite sure he had its best interests at heart.
He got the job done, however, by trading on personal relationships with Democrats in a way that purists in his party never would have. And he was willing to reward Democrats for their cooperation on a number of legislative matters, and let it be known early on that he would not campaign against friendly lawmakers in the other party.
Working in a bipartisan way to further what look like partisan goals left open the debate about Mr. Bush's true motives. Were his efforts on parental notification intended to reward the religious right, as the social conservatives see it? Or were his efforts ultimately supposed to rein them in, by throwing conservatives a fairly meaningless political bone, as many of those who support abortion rights believe?
Bill Price, the head of Texas Right to Life, gushes that the governor has played the other side for suckers -- "pulled the wool over their eyes" -- and given his movement a much-needed boost.
"He has mastered the skill of being able to dig in and yet do it in a way that minimizes the fallout from people who are pro-choice," Mr. Price said of the governor.
"We went through some bad times, with Operation Rescue and some people on the fringe, being associated with people in front of an abortion clinic with policemen on horseback and barking dogs," Mr. Price said. "But just through his manner, he's put forth a good image for the pro-life movement."
Democrats, on the other hand, typically see Republicans as the true patsies, getting nothing more from Mr. Bush than a pat on the head while he winks at them over conservatives' shoulders.
As one Texas Democrat who has worked for Planned Parenthood said, "Bush had to have a parental notification bill to placate the religious right and wave at people in New Hampshire and South Carolina, but he isn't strongly anti-abortion."
The result, however, is not much disputed. And with passage of the bill, Mr. Price said, Mr. Bush "has done more to actually reduce the number of abortions in Texas than all of the guys who are climbing a hill, waving a white flag and declaring, 'I'm the most pure on this.' I'm sure he paid a price."
In an interview, Mr. Bush smiled when asked if he had, in fact, spent a lot of political capital on the bill.
"If I did," he said, "I earned a lot more by having spent it."
Ms. Gray said many Democrats were obviously charmed by the governor on this and other matters.
"It is very difficult for anybody to resist when he comes in," she said. "And he's wonderful when you have a constituent you want him to be pleasant to. It's like that constituent is the only one in the room, and it's him and that constituent against the world. Heck, I like the guy."
The governor's work on the parental notification bill suggests that he is able to communicate an almost Clintonian empathy even to those he is actively working against, and to make the whole question of who won or lost any given legislative skirmish more a matter of interpretation than is usually the case.
Bill Cryer, who worked for the previous Texas governor, Ann Richards, a Democrat, said parental notification "was a big loss for us, the first time in decades that the Legislature had passed any bill restricting the right of a woman to get an abortion, and it could not have happened under Ann Richards." But, Mr. Cryer added, "It's also a nothing-burger in a lot of ways. It's notification, not consent. It clearly had to be given to the religious coalitions, but what it gave them wasn't strong."
Democrats say they went along for a variety of reasons. The bill was overwhelmingly supported by voters. They were tired of fighting over what was a pretty tepid piece of legislation anyway. They had always been just as opposed to abortion, just as supportive of parental rights as the next guy in this overwhelmingly conservative state. When Republicans gained a one-vote majority in the State Senate in 1997, it seemed only a matter of time before the bill would pass, they said, and reforms last year made it harder to block the bill on technicalities, as they had in the past.
And at least some of the Democrats' willingness to go along with the governor should be chalked up to self-preservation. With Republicans here picking up strength consistently through the 80's and 90's, it is now hard for Texas Democrats to be tough on much of anything.
The Texas Legislature is set up to function in a bipartisan way, and the fear of alienating a potential president seems to have increasingly made cooperation an economic issue for Texans, with few Democrats openly criticizing the governor.
"People think they'll have a job in Washington if he wins," said Samantha Smoot, executive director of the Texas Freedom Network, a liberal watchdog group that monitors the Christian Coalition and similar organizations.
Even Democrats think that? she was asked. Ms. Smoot laughed and replied, "Even reporters."
Texas patriotism also seems to be an underestimated factor. "I'm going parochial this year and I'm going to vote for what's best for Texas," said former State Senator A. R. Schwartz, who describes himself as a "lifetime, yellow-dog, brass-collar radical Democrat."
In an interview, Mr. Bush did not dispute the notion that he had not exactly worn any holes in his boots stumping for Republicans against his friends in the other party.
And in a sense the question of whether he would sacrifice Republican lawmakers if necessary has been answered: He already has.
Yet for several reasons, this does not necessarily mean Mr. Bush is likely to sell out Congressional Republicans or their agenda if he is elected president.
Ms. Gray, for one, says he did campaign against her and at least a few other Democrats. "We had worked well with him and had been told the favor would be repaid," she said. "Yet he came into my district with his arm around my opponent."
And it is hard to imagine Mr. Bush cozying up to Congressional Democrats in quite the same way as he has to the populist Texas speaker, Pete Laney, or to the late lieutenant governor Bob Bullock, a Democrat whom the governor hugged before embracing his own father at his second inauguration.
Texas is a state where what is left of the Democratic Party competes with Republicans over the strength of its support for the death penalty and gun owners' rights.
Texas Democrats have a lot in common with Mr. Bush, and increasingly need to prove it to stay in office.
Key Democrats say the governor began pestering them about parental notification in 1997, in at least some cases making clear that he needed their help with conservatives and a presidential run in view. They found him impossible to resist in 1999, when the bill finally passed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ABORTION (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (72%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



542 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Stumping as a Knowing Ally of Farmers

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: BOONE, Iowa, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore stumped across farm country in central Iowa today, recalling his days in the 4-H Club, his Angus cattle and how his father had taught him to stop gullies.
"I learned from my dad the respect for the environment that all farmers who farm their own land have," Mr. Gore told a barnful of farmers and their families in Perry, noting that he grew up in a Washington hotel but spent his summers on the family farm in Tennessee. 
 "When I was a young boy, he used to teach me how to stop a gully before it really got started," Mr. Gore said. "At first I couldn't see the lay of the land the way he could and recognize when a gully was starting up there, but I learned from him."
Mr. Gore, seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, noted that farming accounted for only 20 percent of Iowa's economy. But, he said, "the space between the concentrated population in the cities depends upon the health of the farm economy."
Mr. Gore's message of the day was that he would fight for farmers. "I may have been raised most of my life in Washington, D.C., but I spent every summer on a farm," he told an audience at the Elks lodge here, adding, "I know one end of the pitchfork from the other."
He said the next president needed to keep the prosperity going "as the basis for lifting up those who have been left behind, starting first and foremost with the family farmer." He called for enforcing antitrust laws and said the country needed to "bust up some of the concentrated power that's hurting the farmers."
Mr. Gore's bus tour across Iowa was punctuated with brief references to his opponent, former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, who said on Thursday that he had experienced four bouts of irregular heartbeat in the last month. Mr. Gore told reporters, "He's in great health, and it shouldn't be an issue."
Of the expectations for his performance in Monday's caucuses, in which polls show him ahead, Mr. Gore said, "After Senator Bradley has spent so much more money -- more money than any other Democratic candidate in history here -- and has invested as much time and people and TV ads and whatnot as he has, I think that if I can get one more vote than he does, that is a win."
Mr. Gore has appeared extremely confident and relaxed in the last few days. He gave interviews on drive-time radio programs this morning, joshing with the hosts and lapsing into a heavy Southern drawl.
The Gore campaign is also broadcasting four new commercials. They emphasize his commitment to "fight for the average working person," as well as testimonials from Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., an environmental lawyer in New York.
At a rally in Ames tonight, Mr. Gore took on the Republicans.
"Every Republican candidate for president is tolerant of intolerance, lest they offend the offensive," he said, referring to their support for the Confederate battle flag in South Carolina. "They are fearful those among their constituents will turn away from them unless they humor the bigotry, unless they humor the intolerance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John and Carol Devilbiss, left, farmers in Iowa, attended a rally in Perry yesterday for Vice President Al Gore. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



543 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Cardinal's Light Hand as Leader Lets Archdiocese Adapt to Illness

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

 BODY:
To New Yorkers accustomed to hearing Cardinal John O'Connor speak out on moral issues, the most glaring consequence of his illness has been his sudden shrinking from the public pulpit he built in his 16 years as archbishop.
But his illness has also touched his other, lesser-known role: administrator of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, a spiritual, educational, social and financial presence. Cardinal O'Connor's style of leadership urged independence on those who worked for him, helping them to soldier in much the same way that the timeworn grooves of the church itself do. 
 Even before the cardinal became ill, running the archdiocese was no simple feat. With 2.4 million members, it covers Manhattan, Staten Island, the Bronx and seven counties north of the city. It includes hundreds of parishes, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, maternity homes, day care centers and shelters that are run directly by the archdiocese or by religious orders that are financially independent but report to the archbishop.
When the cardinal's energy began to wane, he left the details of management and most public appearances to two lieutenants, known as vicars general, and to other bishops, reserving his stamina for the most important issues. The vicars general ran the cardinal's weekly cabinet meetings, during which 25 to 30 department heads gather every Tuesday morning to report on major developments, until last week, when the cardinal returned to the table.
The vicars general, Patrick J. Sheridan and Robert A. Brucato, continued to bring important decisions to Cardinal O'Connor, but the two bishops also reminded those seeking the cardinal's advice to bear his condition in mind and use their judgment before troubling him. Functioning as gatekeepers was not entirely new for them. Normally, memorandums, letters and other communications to the cardinal, whose office is on the 20th floor of the archdiocese's headquarters at First Avenue and 55th Street, come through the vicars generals' offices one floor below.
Over its long history, experts on religion said, the church has established ways to function despite the illness or absence of its leaders, making no single person crucial at any given moment.
"The coming and going of the cardinal doesn't disrupt this machinery," Bishop Brucato, 68, a former chancellor of the New York Archdiocese, said in an interview in the rectory behind St. Patrick's Cathedral. Asked just how the archdiocese keeps functioning in Cardinal O'Connor's absence, Bishop Brucato cocked his head toward Bishop Sheridan, seated next to him, and said, "He growls, and I smile."
Seriously, he said, the two men live in the archbishop's residence behind the cathedral, and have known the cardinal for many years. They eat breakfast together every day. "We know his policies," Bishop Brucato said. "We know his mind. His authority is vested in us, to implement what he would want implemented."
While most dioceses have a single vicar general, New York is one of the few in the United States with two. Bishop Brucato joined Bishop Sheridan, who is 78, in August, working largely on the transition phase of the cardinal's impending retirement. The bishops said the naming of a second vicar general was not related to the cardinal's illness, but as it turns out, they have both filled in for him, as have monsignors throughout the archdiocese.
"It's a vast, vast operation," Bishop Sheridan said.
The operation resembles few others. Despite common perceptions of the Catholic Church as monolithic, its organization in New York is diffuse. Each parish is incorporated as a separate nonprofit entity headed by the archbishop, with the local priest serving as secretary-treasurer. In daily operations, the priest runs the parish, largely without consulting the archdiocese. Each parish is responsible for expenses and projects within its geographic area, and for sending 15 percent of its donations to the archdiocese.
Another factor that has helped tide over the archdiocese during the cardinal's illness is the nature of the Catholic Church, whose role is not to respond to daily political, financial or social dramas, but to stand constant in an ever-shifting world.
"It's not like Microsoft," said Msgr. Philip J. Murnion, who runs the National Pastoral Life Center, a Manhattan office that conducts research on the church. "The very nature of its business depends on changing rapidly. The point of the church is not to change rapidly."
Since becoming archbishop, Cardinal O'Connor has run the complex apparatus of the archdiocese by granting the heads of major departments great latitude and authority. They report major developments to him, and to each other, at the weekly cabinet meetings.
"You don't give piddly stuff, but the important stuff," said Msgr. Thomas J. Bergin, who runs educational programs for the archdiocese. As examples of important matters, the monsignor cited school consolidation questions and labor union negotiations.
The meetings also represent a chance for the different arms of the archdiocese to coordinate their actions, like lobbying on behalf of issues that could affect the archdiocese, said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese.
For example, Mr. Zwilling said, "if there's a piece of legislation in Albany that would have an effect on Medicare rates for hospitals, there might be an extended discussion about the legislation, and whether there is something that he as cardinal should be doing about that." The head of hospitals, Mary Healey-Sedutto, "might say, 'Yes, it would be helpful if you called this person or wrote that,' " Mr. Zwilling said.
The cardinal's style of running the meetings has served the archdiocese well during the months that he has been convalescing from surgery to remove a brain tumor and the follow-up radiation treatments, church officials said, because it cultivated their independence. They also say the cardinal has appointed laypeople, more so than his predecessors, to important positions, generally seeking the person best qualified to do a specific job.
The archdiocese's superintendent of schools, Catherine Hickey, said the cardinal had chosen a diverse group of ministries to be represented at the cabinet meetings. "Sitting around that table are people involved in hospital ecumenicism, evangelization, parish councils, ministries for African-Americans and Hispanics," she said.
She added that the Tuesday gatherings were not the only time she could speak to the cardinal, who encourages an open-door policy. "We can memo or talk to him any time of the day or night," Ms. Hickey said.
Until Cardinal O'Connor returned to his office in recent weeks, he worked from his home behind St. Patrick's Cathedral. When he resumed presiding over the cabinet meetings, he listened to updates from the two dozen department chiefs in attendance and surprised them with questions showing that he had kept up with their work throughout his absence, Mr. Zwilling said.
"He's been determined to be, and has been, the archbishop of New York every day," Mr. Zwilling said. "He's never pulled back one little bit from that."
For Msgr. James J. Murray, the head of Catholic Charities, that dedication was most starkly illustrated one morning last fall. Not long before, the cardinal had been released from the hospital, where he had been treated for fatigue. But that morning, he traveled to Wall Street for a fund-raising breakfast.
There, he told Wall Street financiers of the other New Yorkers, the ones untouched by the blessings of an economic boom: families shredded by violence, men cut adrift by drugs, infants with AIDS.
That morning, Monsignor Murray said, Catholic Charities walked away with donations totaling more than $400,000.
On the worst days since his surgery, the cardinal stopped receiving priests at his residence on Wednesdays, a day he had always left open for them to visit him unannounced. He also stopped attending the funerals of priests, which he had done since becoming archbishop.
But in recent weeks, the cardinal has reopened his home to the parish priests, and he works five to six hours a day at his office. When it comes to strategic decisions, however, he has avoided taking steps that would tie his successor's hands in the long run.
When his chancellor, Msgr. Jeremiah P. Monahan, died unexpectedly in October, Cardinal O'Connor appointed Msgr. Edward D. O'Donnell as chancellor for only one year. "He wanted to defer to the next man to renew him or not," Bishop Brucato said.
The next archbishop is likely to be named soon. Last Saturday, Cardinal O'Connor celebrated his 80th birthday at a charity fund-raising dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. The milestone was especially important because Pope John Paul II has generally not allowed cardinals to serve long past that age, when they lose their ability to vote for the next pope.
In these waning days of his tenure, Cardinal O'Connor's sudden quiet has been striking, Bishop Sheridan said, especially for a leader whose trademark has been speaking out on pressing moral and political issues.
"People all over the place are stopping us and asking us, 'How is the cardinal? Tell him I'm praying for him,' " the bishop said. "They don't know who I am from Tuesday, but this is the public out there reacting that way, so they're aware of his illness and his absence."
He paused, and looked down. "Nonetheless," he said, "his presence is still here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: During the cardinal's illness, management details were left to Bishops Robert A. Brucato, left, and Patrick J. Sheridan. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "OVERVIEW: A Vast Ministry" --
A look at the Archdiocese of New York, which consists of Manhattan, Staten Island, the Bronx and the counties of Westchester, Rockland, Ulster, Dutchess, Orange, Sullivan and Putnam.
 
Annual revenue: $545 million
Annual spending: $527 million
Roman Catholics: 2.4 million
Parishes: 413
Priests: 875
Diocesan employees: 1,000
Students: 112,000
Elementary schools: 238
High schools: 55
Hospitals: 17
Mental health residences: 11
Maternity homes: 9
Crisis centers for children: 14
Day care centers: 13
Soup kitchens/food pantries: 9
Homeless shelters: 7
Nursing homes: 20
 
(Source: The Archdiocese of New York)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



544 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Day of Rebellion Ends With Ouster Of Ecuador Leader

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 21

 BODY:
A junta ousted President Jamil Mahuad tonight, after a rebellion led by Indians and backed by the armed forces.
Throughout the day, Mr. Mahuad had insisted that he would not resign, but he abandoned the palace where he worked and lived in the afternoon after refusing a request from the military high command to step down. 
 Speaking in the name of the junta, Gen. Carlos Mendoza, the head of the joint military command who was named defense minister last week, said: "It is a government of the Ecuadorean people. We cannot speak of left or right."
Shortly before midnight, General Mendoza and the two other men who make up the junta emerged from the national palace to present themselves as Ecuador's new leaders. The others are Antonio Vargas, leader of an Indian federation that organized the protests, and Carlos Solorzano, a former Supreme Court judge.
Thousands of people streamed onto the plaza in front of the national palace, mingling with soldiers and celebrating, some waving the red flag of an extreme-left party. It was a day of political chaos, with Indians demanding Mr. Mahuad's resignation and forcing their way into Congress and the Supreme Court. After first backing Mr. Mahuad, the military later decided to support the protest, saying it was the only way to prevent "a social explosion."
"We are conscious that we must maintain order and discipline in the country," General Mendoza said.
Mr. Mahuad had insisted he would not step down, saying during a nationwide television broadcast that anyone who wanted to overthrow him would have to do it by force. Late tonight, Interior Minister Vladimiro Alvarez said in a television interview that "the president has no intention of leaving the country."
Ecuador's economic woes appear to have led to the unusual Indian uprising. Last year, inflation reached 60 percent, the highest in Latin America, and only one in three workers has full-time work. Most of the nation's 4 million Indians live in poverty.
At an emergency meeting of the Organization of American States in Washington, Ecuador's ambassador, Patricio Vivanco, said Mr. Mahuad had taken refuge at a military base in Quito.
The organization unanimously adopted a resolution condemning the overthrow and expressed support for Mr. Mahuad.
South American leaders also lined up in support of Mr. Mahuad, issuing statements condemning efforts to oust him. A statement issued by the United States Embassy in Lima, Peru, urged Ecuador's armed forces and police to support Mr. Mahuad.
"Whatever regime arises from this unconstitutional process will confront political and economic isolation, bringing more misery to the Ecuadorean people," the statement said.
Earlier in the day in Quito, guards stepped aside when hundreds of Indians accompanied by military officers stormed an empty Congress building, seized the podium and announced that they had created their own "Parliament of the People."
Military leaders said 120 officers were involved in the rebellion, along with an undetermined number of troops.
While downtown Quito was in chaos -- with Indians armed with rocks and clubs paralyzing traffic and menacing pedestrians -- most of the country and much of the city seemed unfazed.
"I am not going to abandon you," Mr. Mahuad, 50, said his nationwide broadcast, his only public appearance of the day.
"If you want to take power through force, gentlemen, take power through force," he said, directing his comments to the military high command, which only a few minutes before had asked him to resign.
Later, he left the national palace with close aides and was being protected by several military officers.
Two men were killed and eight were wounded by gunfire during protests and looting in Quito, Guayaquil and two smaller cities, the Red Cross said. The two men who were killed were shot by merchants while allegedly looting a market in Portoviejo.
Earlier in Guayaquil, 165 miles southwest of the capital, a group of leftist-led unions, student organizations and neighborhood associations seized the provincial government building.
The protesters were also upset about Mr. Mahuad's plans to scrap Ecuador's currency for the dollar. In becoming the first South American country seeking to adopt the dollar, Ecuador was hoping to curb inflation, bring down interest rates to U.S. levels and spur investment to end the country's deep recession.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flanked by Ecuador's navy and army chiefs, Gen. Carlos Mendoza announced last night that a military junta would replace President Jamil Mahuad. "It is a government of the Ecuadorean people," he said. (Associated Press)(pg. A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); JUDGES (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); POVERTY RATES (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMIL MAHUAD (96%); CARLOS MENDOZA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



545 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
PRATT & WHITNEY TO CUT 1,700 ADDITIONAL JOBS

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The jet engine maker Pratt & Whitney is eliminating 1,700 additional jobs, mostly from its Connecticut-based manufacturing plants. The cuts are in addition to about 3,500 jobs the company has been eliminating since it started a major reorganization in 1998. A Pratt spokesman, Mark Sullivan, said yesterday that a drop-off in demand for jet engines over the last three years was the primary reason for the job cuts. The company employs 31,000 people worldwide and about 13,000 in Connecticut. Pratt & Whitney is a division of the United Technologies Corporation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (90%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY UNIT OF UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP; UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (UTX) PRATT & WHITNEY (90%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRATT & WHITNEY UNIT OF UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP; UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (UTX)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (88%); 

PERSON: MARK SULLIVAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000



546 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: January 23, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Island, $7.99.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a missionary are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	18	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	10	THE GREEN MILE, by Stephen King. (Pocket, $7.99.) A six-part thriller set on death row at Cold Mountain Penitentiary.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	5	SOUTHERN CROSS, by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley, $7.99.) A former police chief finds herself summoned to Richmond, Va., to clean up scandalous conditions.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	1	BITTERSWEET RAIN, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $6.99.) A young widow is pursued by her first boyfriend, who is also her stepson.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	1	THE COURTSHIP, by Catherine Coulter. (Jove, $7.50.) A strong-willed woman finds romance and adventure in Regency London.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	5	A MAP OF THE WORLD, by Jane Hamilton. (Anchor, $12.95.) When a dairy farmer's wife makes a mistake one morning, her life falls apart.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	74	SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS, by David Guterson. (Vintage, $14.) A murder trial recalls the wartime internment of Japanese-Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 9	6	SEIZE THE NIGHT, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $7.99.) Christopher Snow seeks to discover why children in his hometown keep disappearing.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	8	JEWELS OF THE SUN, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.50.) A woman finds romance in Ireland.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	10	JEWEL, by Bret Lott. (Pocket, $14 and $7.99.) A poor woman's life is enriched by her daughter, who has Down syndrome.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	3	CRITICAL MASS, by Steve Martini. (Jove, $7.99.) A former public defender becomes the government's target in a case involving one of her clients.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	9	 *VINEGAR HILL, by A. Manette Ansay. (Avon, $13.) A woman moves with her children and unemployed husband to live with his loveless family.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	5	 *WELCOME TO THE WORLD, BABY GIRL! by Fannie Flagg. (Ballantine, $7.50.) The pleasures and problems of a rising star in television news.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	1	CELEBRATION, by Fern Michaels. (Zebra, $6.99.) After her conniving husband disappears with $8 million, an heiress falls for a banker.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	33	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	26	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	84	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (HarperPerennial, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	88	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	36	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	19	 *THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN, by Simon Winchester. (HarperPerennial, $13.) How a murderer and certified lunatic helped James Murray compile the Oxford English Dictionary.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	39	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 8	62	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 9	14	BLIND MAN'S BLUFF, by Sherry Sontag and Christopher Drew with Annette Lawrence Drew. (HarperPaperbacks, $7.99.) American espionage by submarine, from the cold war to the present.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	28	OUR DUMB CENTURY, edited by Scott Dikkers. (Three Rivers, $15.) Newspaper headlines making fun of the great events of the past century.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	41	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 12	92	 *INTO THIN AIR, by Jon Krakauer. (Anchor, $7.99 and $13.) Ascending Mount Everest in 1996, the deadliest season in history.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	41	ADVENTURES OF A PSYCHIC, by Sylvia Browne and Antoinette May. (Hay House, $12.95.) A psychic tells her life story.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	115	 *INTO THE WILD, by Jon Krakauer. (Anchor, $12.95.) How a young man's obsession with the wilderness had a tragic end.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	69	 *THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR, by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko. (Pocket, $14.) An analysis of the lives of wealthy Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	171	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) A physician recommends ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	12	THE CARBOHYDRATE ADDICT'S DIET, by Rachael F. Heller and Richard F. Heller. (Signet, $6.99.) A program for weight loss. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	12	THE OFFICIAL POKEMON HANDBOOK, by Maria S. Barbo. (Scholastic, $9.99.) A guide to the characters currently popular with children.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	THE WORLD ALMANAC AND BOOK OF FACTS 2000. (World Almanac, $10.95.) The latest edition of a reference work issued annually since 1868. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Jan. 8, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CHILDREN (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (69%); MURDER (69%); STEPPARENTS (67%); ASIAN AMERICANS (64%); POLICE FORCES (53%); DOWN SYNDROME (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



547 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Kiss My Lips

BYLINE: By M. G. Lord; M. G. Lord is the author of "Forever Barbie."

 BODY:

GEORGE BUSH, DARK PRINCE OF LOVE
 A Presidential Romance.
 By Lydia Millet.
 159 pp. New York:
 Scribner Paperback Fiction/
 Simon & Schuster. $10. 
 Lydia Millet's comic novel, "George Bush, Dark Prince of Love," is a good argument for exposing young people to television instead of books. Millet's narrator, Rosemary, a grossly overweight unemployed ex-convict, was a childhood reader. As a consequence -- one must assume, as the author provides no other explanation -- she speaks and writes like an awkward facsimile of Evelyn Waugh. The disparity between her squalid life and her highfalutin diction, however, does provide some entertaining moments. Had Rosemary's soliloquy not been stretched into a book, it would have made a great piece in, say, The Baffler or The Guardian, journals to which Millet herself has contributed.
Affected language, however, is the least of Rosemary's problems. She is also a stalker, and her target is George Herbert Walker Bush during his term as the 41st president of the United States. Beguiled by his "eternal youthfulness," an attribute that "marks only the scions of the leisured classes and the clinically insane," Rosemary resolves to deliver him from that debilitating shrew, his wife, Barbara, and supplant her as first lady.
Rosemary is an unlikely mix of uncomprehending narrator and razor-sharp political commentator. Millet attempts, and frequently pulls off, the difficult feat of making what is happening clear to the reader when the narrator herself doesn't grasp what she is describing. Yet it's hard to believe that a character who is so thick about her own plight could have such insight into the American electorate.
Rosemary divides the country into three camps: the L.B., or Liberal Bourgeoisie, snotty, educated folk who sneer at Bush; the P.B., or Petty Bourgeoisie, grubby strivers who elected Ronald Reagan; and the G.P., or General Public, who were "illegals, illiterates or didn't have time to vote." She especially hates the L.B., concluding, after a stint in a mental hospital, that psychotherapy is a sinister L.B. plot: "By persuading the P.B. and the G.P. that our problems all stem from ourselves, the L.B. hopes to distract us from the fact that they are quietly leeching all the blood out of the body of society."
Rosemary also blasts the myth of cute old people. "Senior citizens have a reputation for dignity that is largely unwarranted," she observes, and uses the antics of her toothless, sex-crazed, cocaine-addicted geriatric boyfriend to support this thesis. In Millet's second novel -- her first, "Omnivores," was published in 1996 -- the author tells her tale in broad strokes. I particularly liked her gratuitous fixation on grotesque body hair: she describes an unsuccessful suitor who had "a pelt of fur on his back that would have made a mink jealous" and suggests that had Michael Dukakis been less hirsute, he might have become president. What really defeated him were the "two wiry tufts of hair" that had obviously been "pruned from the Dukakis ears." Sometimes, though, Millet swings so wide that she misses. When Rosemary crucifies an effigy of Bush in her basement, the episode left me more puzzled than amused.
In her satirizing of the Bushes, Millet's biggest obstacle is reality, which is funnier than exaggeration. I laughed hardest at the first couple's self-identification on their tax return: "President" and "Housewife." Nor, in terms of dim narrators, has Millet outperformed Barbara Bush, who published two books written in the voices of her dogs. The cocker spaniel that narrates "C. Fred's Story" (1984) is particularly obtuse. He can't understand why the Chinese grumble when he defecates on the Great Wall. "After all, it was outdoors," he says. Millet's novel builds to a slapstick climax in which Rosemary becomes reconciled to her own "people," the General Public. Yet the embrace goes only so far: she never adopts their speech patterns. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (66%); GERIATRICS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); COCAINE (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



548 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Masters of the Universe

BYLINE: By Sylvia Nasar; Sylvia Nasar is the author of "A Beautiful Mind," a biography of the mathematician John Forbes Nash Jr., which won a 1998 National Book Critics Circle Award.

 BODY:

The House
 of Rothschild
 The World's Banker, 1849-1999.
 By Niall Ferguson.
 Illustrated. 658 pp. New York:
 Viking. $34.95. 
 As long ago as the 1930's, a member of the American History Association invoked Walter Scott's Dr. Dryasdust to warn that professional historians were losing touch with readers beyond the academy. More recently, new quantitative techniques and the splintering of subjects into ever narrower specialties have revived fears that narrative history -- the readable kind -- is fast becoming, well, history.
Niall Ferguson's brilliant and altogether enthralling two-volume family saga of the Rothschilds proves that academic historians can still tell great stories that the rest of us want to read. Despite its rigorous and sophisticated treatment of the intricacies of finance, economics and diplomacy, "The House of Rothschild: The World's Banker, 1849-1999," the second volume of Ferguson's history, has all the grandeur and sweep of a 19th-century three-decker novel.
Like the fictional Buddenbrooks, Pallisers and Forsytes, the Rothschilds are eminently fascinating subjects. For nearly a century, they were the world's richest family and its most powerful bankers. As one contemporary put it, "There is but one power in Europe and that is Rothschild." Imagine a family firm with the financial muscle of Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, J. P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs and the International Monetary Fund rolled into one.
Whereas many other wealthy European Jews converted, the Rothschilds always remained "confidently Jewish." They were "the nearest thing the Jews of Europe had to a royal family," and were referred to by other Jews as "Kings of the Jews" and "Jews of the Kings." Like the royals, they mostly married each other; as one Rothschild put it, "For us Jews, and particularly for us Rothschilds, it is better not to come into contact with other families, as it always leads to unpleasantness and costs money."
Their dizzying ascent from Frankfurt's squalid Jewish ghetto after the French Revolution has never been matched in the annals of moneymaking. In amassing what may have been the greatest private fortune in history, the Rothschilds created the first global bond market and the first truly multinational bank, with houses in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Vienna and Naples. Commanding unparalleled resources, they operated as the "lender of last resort to the lender of last resort," bailing out the Bank of England. They acted as private money managers for heads of government like Otto von Bismarck and were lenders to the pope.
Their story owes its immediacy to the remarkable resemblance between the Rothschilds' 19th-century world and our own. Then as now, international capital movements dwarfed national economies and the financial resources of governments. Communications dramatically accelerated the speed at which business could be done, and unregulated financial markets were dangerously volatile. The Rothschilds, Ferguson concludes, prospered not so much by maximizing profits during the booms as by riding out storms that sank less prudent and well-capitalized rivals.
Initially scorned as the very embodiment of New Money, the Rothschilds soon acquired the trappings and tastes of monarchs: grand estates and gardens, Dutch masters, entire menageries. A typical Rothschild shopping spree included, among other purchases, a Rubens, a chimney piece by Inigo Jones, a Reynolds, and "last though not least Mr. Russell's long promised Japanese or Chinese collection." One of their less impressive estates boasted among its novelties a "private circus ring, bowling alley, ice-skating rink, indoor swimming pool and Indian pavilion."
They soon became masters of the political universe. They dined with Disraeli and Gladstone, hunted with the Prince of Wales and helped engineer Napoleon III's impetuous marriage to the adventuress Eugenie de Montijo. At the same time, they devoted considerable energy to charitable activity and used their growing influence to advance the civil and political rights of Jews. Indeed, as Ferguson recounts, "the origins of the state of Israel can . . . be traced back to a letter to Lord Rothschild."
In this second volume of "The House of Rothschild" (the first is subtitled "Money's Prophets, 1798-1848"), Ferguson portrays the family at the zenith of its power. But just as in Thomas Mann's chronicle of the rise and fall of a Hanseatic merchant family and firm, "decadence is detectable in the third generation and fatal in the fourth."
In fact, the Rothschild myth peaked just as the family's fortune and power were at a low ebb, in the poisonous political atmosphere of the 1920's and 30's. The family's advocacy of the gold standard in the wake of Black Thursday and the Creditanstalt crisis -- which triggered an enormous flight of American capital from Europe -- helped turn a financial debacle into the decade-long Great Depression.
They had made other strategic blunders before that one. The greatest, according to Ferguson, was an inexplicable failure to establish the bank where opportunity increasingly lay -- in America. At one point, a prescient Rothschild mother wrote to her son, who was working in New York: "Stay in the New World; if the worst comes to the worst, if the old world should fall, which God will not permit, it would become a new fatherland for us." Yet it never happened. J. P. Morgan had already eclipsed the Rothschilds as the linchpin of war finance by the time of World War I, and after the war the Rockefellers took center stage.
Meanwhile, new rivals -- joint stock banks that drew on the savings of small investors -- were stealing the march on the Rothschilds in Europe. And they were being overtaken by new technology as well. Like a Wall Street old-timer bemoaning after-hours and Internet trading today, James Rothschild, as early as 1851, was complaining: "Since the telegraph became available people work much more. Every day at 12 they send a dispatch, even for trivial deals," making their profit "before the Bourse closes the same day." Once upon a time, the Rothschilds had controlled the flow of information as well as money, beating their rivals to the news through a network of couriers and carrier pigeons so effective that Europe's heads of state relied on it. With the telegraph, James ruefully observed, "anyone can get the news."
A gradual loss of entrepreneurial vigor and financial aptitude played the biggest role in the House of Rothschild's decline. By the fourth generation, "the aesthetic had taken over from the ascetic." Asked if he had a formula for financial success, Natty Rothschild habitually replied, "Yes, by selling too soon." Aesthetic diversion and risk aversion went hand in hand.
Privately, "the mores of the previous century were preserved as if in aspic," Ferguson writes. "While Lionel indulged his passion for horticulture with the aid of up to 400 gardeners at Exbury, Edouard had his beloved racehorses at Chantilly. . . . Philippe built himself a seaside villa at Arcachon, the better to entertain other men's wives." Interest in their country houses soon overtook their interest in the House in the City. Back at the bank, cousins and brothers arrived at 11 and left at 2. The industrious habits of the early Rothschilds had degenerated into the lifestyles of the rich and famous.
What a pleasure to read a book in which adroit turns of phrase and witty asides -- as well as the unfolding drama -- make one want to turn the page. But more than a tasting menu, this is a substantial repast. An Alan Greenspan can feast on artfully presented data on bonds and episodes of financial contagion. A connoisseur of politics can savor the machinations of a Neville Chamberlain or Winston Churchill.
Ferguson, who teaches history at Jesus College, Oxford, has decoded thousands of remarkably frank letters written by family members to one another in Judendeutsch (a mix of German, Hebrew and Yiddish) with Hebrew characters to frustrate prying eyes. Equal to Ferguson's mots are the Rothschilds' own, as when they complain about being "stared at by the modern argus, the public," dismiss Queen Victoria's writing as "ten thousand times" less interesting than a newspaper or cynically observe that a country's finances "cannot progress without liberties" but progress "even less with too many." It's delicious bits like these that make the thousand pages of Ferguson's monumental two-volume history not just instructive but positively engaging.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ferdinand de Rothschild, about 1890; a great-grandson of Mayer Amschel, the founder, he left much of his art collection to the British Museum. (from "The House of Rothschild")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); BRITISH MUSEUM (59%); BRITISH MUSEUM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MUSEUM (59%); BRITISH MUSEUM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); FRANCE (52%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); BRITISH ROYALTY (68%); BOND MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: WALTER SCOTT JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



549 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Men Behaving Badly

BYLINE: By Nathaniel Tripp; Nathaniel Tripp is the author of "Father, Soldier, Son: Memoir of a Platoon Leader in Vietnam."

 BODY:

IN GLORY'S SHADOW
 Shannon Faulkner, The Citadel
 and a Changing America.
 By Catherine S. Manegold.
 Illustrated. 330 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95. 
 Visitors to Charleston often remark on the Citadel, and how its severe, fortresslike architecture seems to clash with the otherwise genteel, ornate atmosphere of South Carolina. Vice Adm. James Stockdale, a Vietnam prisoner of war and winner of the Medal of Honor, was eerily reminded of the cellblocks of Hanoi when he first saw the school, on his way to a brief and frustrating tour there as commandant. He was ultimately worn down by what those crenelated walls have so long enclosed. So was Shannon Faulkner, who was accepted for admission in 1993 because her name was mistaken for a boy's. "Then she was rejected," Catherine S. Manegold writes. "After that, she sued." Manegold covered the landmark legal battle over Faulkner for The New York Times; "In Glory's Shadow" takes us inside the Citadel as two great forces maneuvered inexorably toward each other, and asks on which side of the gate danger really lies.
"Cadets were marching for themselves, narcissistically transfixed," Manegold writes, setting the stage for the painful struggles looming ahead. "Outside, in a new age molding itself to subtle and difficult new realities, knights were no longer recognized." Once again, the threat was coming from the North, and from New York in particular. Originally, it had been the fear of a revolt by slaves incited by Northern abolitionists that had prompted the wealthy white citizens of Charleston to build a fortress where their own private police force would be trained. Later, it was the North's economic growth and deep-water ports, and then the Civil War itself, that left Charleston isolated, a backwater, a city preserved in amber. This time New York, a city obsessed with the future, sent lawyers to that city obsessed with the past. They, and the distinctly American middle-class Southern girl they represented, were occasionally greeted by death threats and reviled on bumper stickers and T-shirts. Manegold asks why, what is so important? Shannon Faulkner asked the same question when her admission to the publicly financed military academy was denied, her presence described as "a 'toxin' that would weaken the corps and kill it from within."
"Mom, they think I'm a germ," Shannon joked. The Citadel was always reactive and insular, known among the military academies for its tougher than usual hazing practices -- and laxer academic standards. Calling itself "the West Point of the South," it received more public funds per student than most South Carolina colleges. The Confederate flag and "Dixie" always accompanied public events. "It was destined, each new generation thought, always to be a special place, the city's complement, the center axle in a secret wheel of power," Manegold notes. Yet as our nation began to absorb dramatic social changes, the Citadel became even more isolated. The school's fervent anti-Communism in the 1950's, when J. Edgar Hoover's "Masters of Deceit: The Story of Communism in America and How to Fight It" was required reading, morphed into something darker: a sense that it alone held the standards of purity, of duty, honor and country. The Citadel did not admit blacks until 1965, nearly 20 years after the integration of the military. More ominous, while other campuses endured liberal protest and reform, hazing at the Citadel became tougher still. Nazi paraphernalia and jargon became popular, and one commandant after another was unable to put a stop to it. The professors were frustrated. "Day by day," Manegold writes, "they stood in front of boys more concerned with survival outside class than a good performance in it. The tests and fascinations of barracks life overwhelmed all but the few."
Hazing is central to Manegold's book, and was cited by the Citadel as an important reason women were not admissible. Hazing of first-year cadets, including mild torture, is a grotesque parody of the slave and master relationship of Charleston's past. Those who show weakness, who fail or cry out, are often characterized by obscene names for parts of the female anatomy. Those who pass are admitted to an elite lifelong brotherhood. This holds enormous appeal for boys who otherwise lack direction, just as street gangs do. It creates an obedient and often misogynistic warrior class. At its root is the need to renounce all the softness and empathy one's mother once represented. Its end purpose is to make the inflicting of pain, even death, acceptable.
For two years, as the lawyers battled, Shannon was allowed to attend classes, escorted by federal marshals, but continued to be excluded from the cadet corps. To many at the Citadel, keeping the corps of cadets male was a matter of honor; "duty, honor, country" is the Citadel creed, but of the three, "honor" remains the most ambiguous. In the masculine, feudal sense in which it is presented here, it is ultimately self-defined. It transcends all else, including the law. In isolation and under siege, honor often becomes malevolent. Social scientists have demonstrated that where the culture of honor is strongest, as in the rural South and West, it is closely associated with the culture of violence, high murder rates and weak gun-control laws. It is an artifact of the frontier, of reconstruction, of lawlessness, of deep wounds slow to heal. It is also the culture of losers, but not to be taken lightly, as anyone with an eye on the Balkans can readily see. This, too, is what Shannon Faulkner faced. When her battle was won and she was finally admitted to the cadet corps she lasted less than a week, having lost her taste for the place. More women soon followed, however, and there is little doubt that the Citadel is a better place today, due in part to her courage.
Manegold avoids the broader psychological and social implications of Shannon Faulkner's particular story, focusing on the culture of the Citadel itself and the predominantly male machinations of those defending it. But her book is more than an effective, often mesmerizing, account of one great battle in a long struggle for women's rights. In throwing open the gates of a revered institution and casting light in the shadows, she has forced all of us to take a second look at ourselves and our society. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (77%); VIET NAM (72%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CORP (71%); CITADEL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (77%); VIET NAM (72%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); LAWYERS (70%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); POLICE FORCES (63%); 

PERSON: SHANNON FAULKNER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



550 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Scott Veale

 BODY:

The Orchid Thief
 By Susan Orlean. Ballantine, $14.
The author's first book-length narrative is a journalistic account of a thief caught pilfering 200 rare orchids and plants in Florida, but its true subject is the monomania of collectors and growers, who can wait seven years just to see a new plant bloom. This peculiar mania is revealed as "a small thing of grandeur, a passion with a pedigree," Ted Conover wrote here last year.
 
The Hours
 By Michael Cunningham. Picador USA, $13.
The theme of this Pulitzer Prize-winning novel is the haunting of present lives by memories and books, and it evolves in three connected narratives: that of a New York woman whose life echoes events in Virginia Woolf's "Mrs. Dalloway"; a housewife in 1940's Los Angeles who reads the book; and Woolf herself in 1923, living near London and writing her novel. "The overall impression is that of a delicate, triumphant glance, an acknowledgment of Woolf that takes her into Cunningham's own territory, a place of late-century danger but also of treasurable hours," Michael Wood wrote in these pages in 1998.
 
Rocket Boys: A Memoir
 By Homer H. Hickam Jr. Delta, $12.95.
This nostalgic coming-of-age story is set during the Sputnik era in dreary West Virginia coal country, where the author (a future NASA engineer) and five pals undertook an audacious series of rocket launchings that captured the imagination of a dying region. "He is a very adept storyteller," James R. Gaines wrote here in 1998.
 
Bad Chemistry
 By Gary Krist. Berkley, $7.50.
A headless body, a combustible dog and "The Tale of Peter Rabbit" are among the plot elements in this taut mystery about an ex-policewoman trying to track down her missing husband. "Fascination with the power of secrets . . . holds the book together," David Willis McCullough wrote in these pages in 1998.
 
Inventing Wyatt Earp: His Life and Many Legends
 By Allen Barra. Carroll & Graf, $15.95.
In 1881, a 30-second gunfight helped create an American hero and a stirring myth of frontier justice. It turns out that accounts of Earp's career and the shootout were full of ironies, confusion and outright falsehoods. This "refreshingly pugnacious book" aims to set the record straight, Richard E. Nicholls said here last year.
 
Elegy for Iris
 By John Bayley. Picador USA, $13.
The British literary critic chronicles his long, rich relationship with his wife, the novelist Iris Murdoch, and her descent into Alzheimer's disease. "In its evocation of the lyrical, the comic and the tragic, this splendid book enlarges our imagination of the range and possibilities of love," Mary Gordon wrote here in 1998.
 
There Once Was a World:
 A Nine-Hundred-Year Chronicle of the Shtetl of Eishyshok
 By Yaffa Eliach. Back Bay/Little, Brown, $25.
A historian recreates in intensely rendered detail the daily rhythms of life in her family's shtetl, a town in what is now Lithuania whose 3,500 Jews were nearly all murdered. Her account contains numerous photographs and interviews with survivors. In 1998 our reviewer, Stephen J. Dubner, called this "an exhaustive and kaleidoscopic history." "The Rest of Us": The Rise of America's Eastern European Jews, by Stephen Birmingham (Syracuse University, $22.95), is the final installment in the author's trilogy on Jewish immigrants in America. It is a broad canvas filled with portraits of colorful characters like Irving Berlin, Meyer Lansky and Ralph Lauren. "Trenchant observations permeate this book," Sydney Zion wrote here in 1984.
 
Face-Time
 By Erik Tarloff. Pocket Books, $12.95.
A rising White House speechwriter is horrified when the president takes a shine to his girlfriend. She's flattered, of course, and tempted by the prospect of ultimate insider access. The result is a novel "about sex and power in Washington that goes behind the headlines to a darker place," Patricia O'Brien wrote here last year.
 
Falling Slowly
 By Anita Brookner. Vintage Contemporaries, $12.
This novel focuses on two willfully hermitic sisters torn between a desire for connection with the larger world and a greedy complacency about their carefully sheltered existence. Brookner is "the unrivaled mistress of the stifled life," Claire Messud wrote here last year.
 
Foreign Bodies
 By Hwee Hwee Tan.
 Washington Square/Pocket Books, $12.95.
This first novel is about a young lawyer in Singapore who has nine days to prove that her English boyfriend is not the mastermind of an international gambling ring. "Tan spins out a gripping story," Anderson Tepper wrote in the Book Review last year.
 
Winter Count
 By Barry Lopez. Vintage, $11.
Many of these stories focus on obscure figures and incidents in the Plains and Rockies, and are informed by American Indian culture and mystical wisdom. Each tale "is as economical in design, as painstakingly crafted and as resonant as a good classical guitar," David Quammen wrote here in 1981. Scott Veale
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Brad Fowler/Song Of Myself)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: VIRGINIA WOOLF (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



551 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report;
A Makeover in Anaheim, For Parks and City

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif.

 BODY:
THERE is no missing the big changes afoot in Anaheim. For months, no motorist on Interstate 5, the overcrowded freeway that snakes through this aging tourist town, could fail to notice the outline of new ramps and overpasses and seemingly endless construction that herald the biggest development effort here in the 45 years since Walt Disney first built his Magic Kingdom.
Nearly half a century after it opened in a sleepy sea of orange groves, Disneyland is as fresh and spotless as ever, and it remains the single most popular tourist attraction in Southern California, drawing some 13.7 million visitors in 1998, according to Amusement Business, a trade journal. But the urban corridor of strip malls, fast-food outlets and motels that has grown up around it was tired and long overdue for a lift. It is getting one in a big way. 
 Over the next two years, Anaheim will see the fruits of a $4.2 billion public-private redevelopment in the works since 1996. It will bring a whole new theme park called Disney's California Adventure, plus a retail shopping complex, an expanded convention center, and new hotels, roads and landscaping to 1,100 acres surrounding the original park.
Just 12 miles away in Buena Park, Knott's Berry Farm, Orange County's second-most-popular attraction, with some 3.4 million visitors, will open its Perilous Plunge this summer. That ride, featuring a four-and-a-half-story chute down which boats will plunge at a 75-degree angle, is billed as the longest, steepest water ride in the world and is just one part of an overall upgrade at Knott's that will also feature a separate new 13-acre water park called Soak City, U.S.A., scheduled to open on Memorial Day with 21 water rides and attractions.
"It's kind of a different world every day now," said Elaine Cali, the communications director for the Anaheim/Orange County Visitor and Convention Bureau, whose of fice overlooks the changing construction scene.
Disney alone is investing $1.4 billion to expand its original resort and build the new California-theme park -- celebrating beach culture, the redwood forests and other features of the state -- on the site of its former parking lot. It is bridging the two with Downtown Disney, a 300,000-square-foot retail, dining and entertainment complex, like the one at Walt Disney World in Orlando, that will feature outlets of popular spots like House of Blues and the La Brea Bakery, the Los Angeles-based emporium of irresistible breads and pastries.
These expanded attractions, including a 750-room luxury hotel, the Grand Californian, built in the style of Frank Lloyd Wright, are to open early in 2001. A 10,000-car enclosed parking garage is going up adjacent to the parks, and the original Disneyland Hotel is being remodeled.
By December 2000, a $177 million expansion of the Anaheim Convention Center, across the street from the park, is scheduled to be finished, increasing total square footage by 40 percent, to 1.6 million square feet. A major redesign of the former Anaheim Stadium, now known as Edison Field International and home of the Disney-owned Anaheim Angels baseball team, has already been completed.
"The town has not seen anything of this magnitude, certainly since the original Disneyland was built," said Ms. Cali of the convention bureau. "This was truly an agricultural community then, but today it's an urban destination and very built up, so to be able to change the landscape is pretty remarkable."
Together, the new Disney-related attractions are expected to increase the average stay in the resort corridor to four nights, from three now, though some developers have held off building new hotels until they are sure more visitors will come, leading to some predictions of a shortage of rooms in the near term.
In the early 1990's, when the California economy was in a deep recession and the greater Los Angeles area was rocked by riot, fire and earthquake, attendance at Disneyland and other parks fell sharply. Although it has since bounced back, some hotel analysts say lenders remain put off by Anaheim's low average room rate, about $76, compared with an overall nationwide average of $81 through November, according to Smith Travel Research.
All the construction has been a challenge for local hotels, which have struggled to fill rooms in the face of the congestion. While the California Division of Tourism has projected an overall increase of about 6 percent in travel within and to California in 1999, Orange County was expected to end the year with about 38.05 million visitors, up just 0.8 percent from 1998.
At the moment, perhaps the most visible sign of the efforts in Anaheim is the freeway construction, a $1.1 billion makeover aimed at nearly doubling the lanes of a 9.5-mile section that has been among the most congested in the region. Construction has had to allow for the continuing crowds at Disneyland and has required rerouting up to 36,000 vehicles a day. It is scheduled to be finished late in 2000, just in time for the opening of the new Disney park.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of California highlighting Los Angeles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (72%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (72%); KNOTT'S BERRY FARM FOODS INC (67%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (51%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); WATER PARKS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); RETAILERS (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); THEME RESTAURANTS (72%); FAST FOOD (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); BAKERIES (60%); 

PERSON: WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



552 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Practical Traveler;
Roman Holiday? Sample Tours

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
TAKING a trip to Rome during the Catholic Church's Jubilee Year might seem intimidating, particularly to travelers who have never been to Italy. But even for those not religiously motivated, this year provides a good opportunity to see the city spruced up, with many public facilities renovated and transit systems attuned to tourists. The exchange rate is also advantageous, with the lira at nearly 1,900 to $1.
The easy way to do it is with a tour or package, because many causes for anxiety, like getting to the hotel from the airport, are dealt with by someone else, and old hands are ready to offer help. 
 Regular tour operators are not using the Jubilee Year as a selling device, and thus have shunned the big price jumps that upset many consumers about millennium tours and events. Travelers to Rome are still able to look at the choices and seek out the religious component, or bypass it, in selecting a tour.
 "We didn't focus on the Jubilee as an event," said Robert Saccone, director of United States development for Italiatour, a division of Alitalia. "Our job is to promote travel by people of all religions."
Perillo Tours of Woodcliff Lake, N.J., has this to say in its catalog for spring and summer: "Scrub, scrub, scrub. It seems that half of Rome's buildings have shed centuries of grime to happily reveal their original beauty." Steve Perillo, the president, said that his company does not emphasize events like papal audiences, although of course tour officials advise group members of each day's events.
Operators consulted early this month said that they had space on Rome tours scheduled through the end of the year. That includes TourCrafters of Libertyville, Ill., one of two United States operators designated by the Vatican Central Committee as official agencies. The second, the Catholic Travel Center of Burbank, Calif., which designs tours for clubs and churches, said that it had instituted early deadlines and that most of its group capacity for spring and summer was booked, although there were spaces for independent travelers. J. Scott Scherer, the president, said that bookings would be 65 percent above last year -- he anticipates 3,000 to 4,000 clients.
Mr. Perillo, whose company calls itself the world's largest operator of tours to Italy -- with clients numbering "tens of thousands yearly" -- said he was sure that spring and summer would fill up but that at the moment there is space.
 
A Sampling of Packages
Prices on Rome tours take a step up in March, when the weather eases and average sunshine increases to six hours a day from the January-February level of four. Lent begins March 8 and Easter is April 23, and high-season prices are fully in effect by then.
Until then, what would normally be viewed as short-stay winter packages are available. Almost all use Alitalia, but some flights are on British Airways and Sabena. Trans World Airlines dropped its New York-Rome route on Jan. 10, although it still serves Milan.
What follows is a sampling of tours headed for Rome this year:
Until March 10, TourCrafters' economy trip of five nights costs $599 in double occupancy, with air fare from New York, Boston, Miami or Chicago. It uses the Brasile, a three-star hotel, and includes breakfast, hotel service charges and taxes. Transfers are not included; neither are airport taxes and other miscellany, totaling about $75 a person. There may be a $25 extra charge for a departure on Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
CIT Tours Corporation in New York also has a five-night Rome winter special at $599 a person, with two in a room, through March 10. It includes round-trip nonstop Alitalia air fare from New York, Boston, Chicago or Miami, rail transportation to and from the airport, and five nights at the three-star Donatello Hotel on the Via di Porta Maggiore near the train station, with buffet breakfasts. British Airways through London is also offered, for $70 additional. Departure is available any day of the week. Airport taxes are not included.
Italiatour offers Roman Jubilee, a four-night trip. Until March 12, including air fare from New York and Boston, and using the three-star hotels Augustea, Center and Portamaggiore, it costs $689; for the rest of March, it is $769. Three days of tours, including the Christian Rome Tour, are offered. Continental breakfasts, transfers between airport and hotel, and hotel service charges and taxes are included.
Perillo's prices are higher than those given above because the company quotes the same cost for many different departure cities, some as far from the Atlantic as Seattle and San Francisco. The company also uses first-class hotels.
Through Feb. 26, Perillo's six-night packages begin at $1,199 for each of two people in a room in a four-star hotel. The tours leave on Saturday and Thursday, returning the next Saturday or Thursday. The price includes round-trip air fare, transfers from the Rome airport and back, buffet breakfasts, hotel service charges, taxes and tips. A half-day of sightseeing is scheduled, and Perillo provides a host at the hotel at particular hours to give directions and help with activities. A single room costs $329 more. In March, the tour price goes to $1,299.
On April 17 the Perillo schedule shifts to Monday-Monday, and the price rises to $1,799; from June 19 into October, it is $1,999. The hotel for the high season is the new Hotel Empire Palace on the Via Aureliana. Perillo is unusual in not accepting credit cards.
 
Papal Blessing
A six-night package designed for the Jubilee Year by TourCrafters is called "Rome, Home of the Holy Father." It is available until March 31 for $1,099 a person from New York or Boston, with two in a room. The price increases thereafter. This tour includes a Pilgrim's Card allowing entry on Rome's transit system for three days, medical assistance and telephone calls. The tour is open to groups -- which depart on the day of their choice and get price discounts at certain levels of participation -- and to independent travelers, who also may depart any day. The hotel at the basic price is the three-star Centro, on Via Firenze, or a similar place. Breakfasts and dinners are included, also transfers from the airport, hotel service and taxes. Two sightseeing expeditions are included, as well as attendance at a papal audience on a Wednesday, a papal blessing on a Sunday and a Jubilee event. Airport taxes are not included.
All these tours can be booked through travel agents. Here are addresses and numbers for the operators mentioned.
Catholic Travel Center, 4444 Riverside Drive, Suite 201, Burbank, Calif. 91505; (818) 848-9449.
CIT Tours Corporation, 15 West 44th Street, New York, N.Y. 10036; (800) 248-8687.
Italiatour, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10103; (800) 237-0517; www.italiatour.com.
Perillo Tours, 577 Chestnut Ridge Road, Woodcliff Lake, N.J., 07675; (800) 431-1515; www.perillotours .com.
TourCrafters, 28085 North Ashley Circle, Unit 202B, Libertyville, Ill. 60048; www.tourcrafters.com; (800) 621-2259.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); 

COMPANY: PERILLO TOURS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); AIRLINES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); 

PERSON: ROMAN JUBILEE (84%); STEVE PERILLO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



553 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 14; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: ART;
A Neighborly Thing to Do: Showing Off Library's Works

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
PEOPLE in one town do not always know what gems, or just plain pleasant artwork, their neighbor has, so when one institution shows the collection of another one nearby, the result is an economical, efficient, yet striking way to get acquainted.
The Hudson River Museum here is doing that now. "A Community Collects: Art From the Bronxville Public Library" consists of 26 paintings that the library obtained in 1942 when its trustees asked the community for art to furnish its public rooms. About 100 works of American art were donated, including a large number of Currier & Ives prints. Not surprisingly, most of the collection, including the works in the present exhibition, is on the conservative side: most of it dates from the 1880's to the 1930's, and modernism does not rear its head at all. 
 If the show is not a world beater, it is certainly pleasant and often absorbing. The paintings share many qualities, and viewers can get involved in comparing and contrasting. Wallinformation reminds viewers of Bronxville's contribution to American art. From its beginnings in the 1890's, Bronxville was conceived as a planned community, and artists figured in the plan. Lawrence Park, named for William Van Duzer Lawrence, was the first section to be built. Lawrence thought that if he built it they would come, they being artists from New York who would be attracted to bucolic surroundings. The artists did come, and the Bronxville Artists Colony lasted through the 1930's. Six of its artists are represented in this exhibition.
Impressionism and its more subtle relative Tonalism were still flourishing styles, which depended to a large extent on landscape. Those styles constitute the bulk of the show, but it is also evident that a characteristic of many of the landscapes is broad, lively brushwork. This predilection is announced by "Rocks and Seas" by Frederick Judd Waugh. Waves dashing against rocks is one of the hoariest of subjects, but if done right it produces a visceral thrill. Waugh's treatment does just that because it seems especially fresh; he used colors directly out of the paint tube.
Bruce Crane was one of the Bronxville artists, and his three paintings represent the nuances achievable in Tonalism. Adjacent colors vary only slightly, yet paradoxically the results can be dramatic. "Afternoon Mist" is essentially a quiet mix of green and taupe, but "Passing Shower" is marked by more florid brushwork, especially in the curtain of rain at the right of the canvas.
The best known painter here is Albert Bierstadt, and his small oil on paper evocation of Mount Shasta easily summons up visions of his major outsize mountain landscapes. But Ernest Lawson is a familiar figure, too. He was a member of the Eight, the group of painters who immediately followed the Ash Can School carrying on its tradition of vigorous brushwork. Lawson is represented by two very different paintings, although both are snow scenes, his specialty. "The Harlem River" is set in his favorite locale, upper Manhattan, and there is a marked contrast between the shimmering blue of the water and the snow, which seems to be slashed by equal parts of mud. "Winter Sunset," though, is a clean evocation of a certain time of day. The brush strokes are moderate, and the snow is nearly immaculate. The orange disk in the sky is reminiscent of the one in the first Impressionist painting to be labeled as such, Monet's "Impression, Sunrise."
The exhibition contains many snow scenes. Perhaps the organizers thought they would echo the winter weather that might be glimpsed through the exhibition space's several windows. They might wind up being a surrogate for snow that never comes. "The Rookery in Winter" by William Thomas Smedley is identified as a house in Lawrence Park. What is most impressive here is the way Smedley captured the shivery sensation of blowing snow. The evergreens, whose color persists in Hobart Nichols's "Snow Scene -- Westchester County," are painted as amalgams of quick marks, and were perhaps inspired by Asian art. Everett Warner's "Mill Dam" is characterized by ice floes and also by the intense brush strokes of the water falling over the dam.
Other genres of art are represented. "Chelsea" by Anthony Thieme is set by the sea and is remarkable for the animated way sails on ships are rendered to indicate wind rippling the cloth. This painting is something of an un-still life when compared to the hushed austerity of Soren Emil Carlsen's composition, which concentrates on two teapots and a porcelain cup. Two kinds of flowers, one in a garden and the other in a black vase, are represented in Mary Fairchild Low's "Delphiniums and Butterflies" and Hermann Dudley Murphy's "Pot of Cyclamen."
Four paintings are each devoted to a single, contrasting personality. The prairie scout in William Gilbert's painting of that name stands in an ambience of palpable dry heat. He may have been inspired by Remington. The ambiguous dark surroundings in which Eanger Irving Couse put his "Indian With Blanket" lend a certain gravity to his subject's contemplation of a single woven symbol. The three-quarter-length portrait "Boy in the Red Scarf" is reminiscent of the best paintings of Robert Henri, the founder of the Ash Can School. He also holds a basket of apples, another color note. If only for the intense way he looks directly at us, and probably stared at the artist, William Howe's huge, resting "Norman Bull" is a personality, too.
"A Community Collects: The Bronxville Public Library" is at the Hudson River Museum through May 7. For information, the number to call is 963-4550.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Mill Dam," above, by Everett Warner.; "Still Life," below, by Soren Emil Carlsen.; "Passing Shower" by Bruce Crane, far right. The works are among 26 paintings in "A Community Collects: Art From the Bronxville Public Library" at the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers. The Bronxville Public Library acquired about 100 works of American art when library trustees asked the community in 1942 for donations to furnish its public rooms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE PARK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (69%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM THOMAS SMEDLEY (58%); FREDERICK JUDD WAUGH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



554 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2241 words

HEADLINE: Music;
Out of a Rut And Into A New Groove

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
AS found on the Billboard charts and radio stations like New York's Hot 97, today's R-and-B mostly denotes a tight formula: single-string acoustic guitar licks over synthetic blipping beats like an Atari Pong game, the airbrushed vocals of a lead singer indignant over a sexual promise that's been withheld and a bland group of backup singers taking the chorus in unison while the leader sings sub-Stevie Wonder melisma. Sometimes the musical blueprints, as developed by producers like Timbaland and Babyface, are fascinating -- but only until they are copied to death. With such homogeneity, it's becoming very hard to tell one performer from another in mainstream black music.
At the same time, D'Angelo's new single "Untitled" has just been added to commercial playlists across the country, and it sounds nothing like the above description. Slow and insinuating, its vocals violate a cardinal rule of commercial music by being mixed deep into the track. It's based on a live studio jam; it begins with a false start, and it ends with an abrupt cut-off during a crescendo. In the middle of formulaic, machinelike music that sounds as if it was made by committee, you're suddenly presented with a mysterious song, with handcrafted defects all over it. 
 "Untitled" is a signal that can't be missed; something this radical can't just drop out of the sky alone. There's a widening groundswell of R-and-B artists -- and even some who fit more naturally in the category of hip-hop -- who are sounding like an antidote to the sameness problem: their records are more well-rounded, more musicianly, more complete. They make a mature music, and a family music, for living rooms, rather than for the streets. In their subject matter there is room for self-doubt, anger, beatitude, whimsy and religion -- not just slick come-ons or aggressive bluster. It's increasingly album-oriented as opposed to singles-oriented. Importantly, it marks a gradual return in black pop to the use of instruments instead of electronics. And it isn't even always sung in English.
It's not just that some of these performers are infusing their new music with 30-year-old grooves; they are expanding the entire personality of R-and-B. Some, like D'Angelo and Maxwell, are rising to the the challenge of becoming complete singer-songwriters; some are beginning to look beyond the standard sound of American R-and-B, adding jazz elements or reaching out to black music of other cultures. Hip-hop is changing, too, with so-called alternative performers like Mos Def, Q-Tip and the Roots suddenly making the best current albums of the genre. Perhaps you could call it all-natural R-and-B, referring to the patience and wisdom in this new music as well as to the general absence of glossy pop hysteria and to the Afro hair style affected by some of the performers.
If the fluky breakout successes for this kind of music have arrived in a trickle -- Arrested Development in the early 90's, Maxwell in 1996, Erykah Badu in 1997 (Lauryn Hill's success in 1998 wasn't exactly unexpected) -- now seems like the moment for the floodgates to open. Tastes have changed in its direction. Macy Gray's recent debut, "On How Life Is," a lushly produced album rich with 1970's Chaka Khan references -- but also containing strong hints of more underground sources from the era, like the singer Betty Davis -- has just been nominated for two Grammy awards; it's a record for knowledgeable music fans as well as casual radio listeners. Angie Stone's promising debut record, "Black Diamond," has slowly gained sales and radio play since its release four months ago. And D'Angelo's long-awaited new album, "Voodoo" (Cheebasound/Virgin V2-48499), to be released on Tuesday, could be the succes d'estime that proves the force of this new music: it is a largely unslick, stubbornly idiosyncratic and genuinely great album that has already produced two hit singles.
OFFICIAL names haven't stuck to any of these artists who somewhat defy the radio formulas. Neo-soul is too reductive; rare groove, as it's often called in England, is too record collector-ish. "I've been called alternative, retro, all kinds of things like that," said the singer, guitarist and producer Raphael Saadiq, formerly of the band Toni Toni Tone and now of a new band, Lucy Pearl, whose first album comes out in May.
For a decade, Mr. Saadiq has combined old R-and-B with current production sounds and whiffs of hip-hop, and two years ago Toni Toni Tone finally broke up, a victim of radio's narrowness. "Maybe they need to have a new category, 'R-R-and-B,' " he said, "real rhythm and blues, for music that has a lot of feeling going into it, almost like underground R-and-B." Mr. Saadiq's dream for a new radio format is all music by bands, as opposed to music with electronic rhythm sections. "Call it 'hot real music' or something," he suggested. "I think a lot more people would start playing instruments as a result."
Wherever there are twists on the current formulas of black music, there are only euphemisms to describe it. First, there's that umbrella term "urban": no record company or chartmaker wants to own up to segregating music by race, so a sociological category serves instead. One also hears the term "progressive," which means music that can be liked beyond teendom: nobody wants to lose a share of the enormous, heavy-spending youth market for black music by using that taboo word, adult. And, finally, there is the term that has lost all its flavor yet continues to be used in the business: alternative.
Alternative, in this context, denotes music that appeals to black and nonblack, male and female, brand-new and retro tastes. Here you see the first confusion: what's so alternative about a potential audience that wide? But buried deeper in that confusion is some cultural alchemy, a point at which music made by black artists ceases to be "black music" and their songs are not suitable for black radio; performers like Lenny Kravitz, Me'Shell Ndegeocello and Dionne Farris have fallen into this trap.
One ought to avoid calling this music "alternative" outside the argumentative purposes of this article. Black artists tend to distance themselves from the word and its connotations of white performers, rock's musical ingredients and the aesthetic of self-marginalizing. But the word still links to a pressing issue. It remains difficult to get this new between-the-cracks music on the radio and in the hands of mainstream American record buyers. Since the Telecommunications Act of 1996, corporate consolidation within the radio industry has severely reduced adventurous programming. The number of current records on an average commercial black station's playlist, said Tom Bracamontes, senior vice president of promotion at Virgin records, has dropped by nearly a third. "Not only is music on the fringes of R-and-B going to lose out," said Mr. Bracamontes, "but even regular mainstream R-and-B is going to lose out."
Still, there are ways of defeating the rules of the system, through the long-term effort of record labels and performers themselves. Virgin took a year to market the French band Les Nubians to black stations across the country with an adult audience, and the life of the band's single, "Mekeda," has been extended: it's now being pitched to hip-hop mix shows. The Roots continue to perform incessantly, even setting up shop every week in various clubs to present shows that act as workshops. The last few years have also seen a growing number of R-and-B artists turn away from the system and form their own labels to release their new material -- a roll call that includes not only the Artist Formerly Known as Prince, but also Mr. Saadiq, Dionne Farris and the new singer N'Dambi.
The shabby state of live performance is also forcing change. Last year one could witness the spectacle of the singer Ginuwine, who had a top-10 R-and-B radio hit at the time, performing to a half-empty audience at the Manhattan club Tramps. Behind him, an ad hoc band copied his recordings exactly; there was a drummer, but a rhythm machine anchored the grooves. One got the sense that Ginuwine could be an exciting performer if only live performance made more business sense to him, and the club would be full if the audience for black music had a little more faith that live shows in general were worthwhile.
Conversely, the drummer for the Roots, Ahmir Thompson (a k a Questlove), has started to pop up on all sorts of records, from Erykah Badu's "Baduizm" to the Congolese-French group Zap Mama's "Amazone"; his participation seems to ensure that a record will sound both new and different, and there are sure to be others like him in his wake. Truth be told, he's often too metronomic, holding one pattern steady through almost an entire song. But the difference in hearing music with a human drummer again is immeasurable -- it's warmer, more vulnerable, more interesting.
It's Mr. Thompson's drumming that threads together the songs on D'Angelo's "Voodoo." A full five years (an eternity in the career of a black pop artist) after his first album, "Brown Sugar," D'Angelo (Michael D'Angelo Archer) took two years of daily recording sessions to construct his new album, yet anyone who has heard the stories of his studio indulgences may be surprised by the album's streamlined economy. He spent that time establishing a telepathic live feel between the members of his band, which included, aside from Mr. Thompson, the jazz trumpeter Roy Hargrove, the jazz guitarist Charlie Hunter and Mr. Saadiq. At their best, the record's songs begin without fanfare, as if they're drifting into hearing range from the floor below. The main evidence of studio indulgence is the heavy multitracking of D'Angelo's voice: you hear seven or eight D'Angelos, in falsetto, muttering, chanting, out of sync; they soar freely atop the music like doves in an aviary.
The album's first single, "Left and Right," hedged bets: it was the only track that used hip-hop, and it brought in the rap stars Method Man and Redman. Though the song is a shrewd effort to have it both ways, retaining the slinky, subtle feel of D'Angelo's music while incorporating hip-hop in its second half, it's also the album's weakest track. The rest of "Voodoo" is not, per se, an attempt to bring back the music of the 70's; it's an attempt to recall a time when long tracks and unique group sounds were radioworthy popular culture, and pop radio wasn't so segmented by race. In interviews, D'Angelo has described it as evoking the "second phase" of musicians like Marvin Gaye, Sly Stone and Curtis Mayfield -- the point where they had already had success with mainstream pop and were ready to experiment a bit. It says much about today's competitive record and radio business that D'Angelo was ready to make that shift on his second record.
Since the 60's, paradigm-shift moments in black popular culture have frequently been announced. Some of this new ferment seems reminiscent of the late 1980's, when the writer Trey Ellis, in an influential article in the literary journal Callaloo, proclaimed a culturally mulatto "New Black Aesthetic." He pointed to bands like Living Color and Fishbone, filmmakers like Spike Lee and the Hudlin brothers, playwrights like George C. Wolfe -- all of whom expressed a "casually nonchalant" attitude about race; these were artists liberated by the feeling that they did not have to perform according to what was expected from them as blacks. But while the dominant strain of Mr. Ellis's essay is of black artists joyfully crashing the temples of white culture -- Living Color's freedom to play rock 'n' roll, Tracy Chapman's to play coffeehouse folk and so on -- the emphasis of the current crop of "R-R-and-B" musicians is to rediscover what was so good about the black music of their youth, and how it was incorporated into the wider scope of American culture.
BUT one victory begets another, and it seems likely that more barriers will be broken down; possibly the next step for these artists will be to find meaningful ways to connect American black pop with the rest of their cultural heritage, as well as with black music of other cultures. Jazz musicians have already hooked up with Maxwell and D'Angelo; Lauryn Hill has apparently expressed interest in working with the protean Brazilian musician and cultural hero Carlinhos Brown; she and D'Angelo both worked in the studio last year with the Nigerian bandleader Femi Kuti. Instead of dwelling on the limitations and frustrations of the idea of alternative black pop, it might be better to focus on its positive side: its incredible capaciousness.
Imagine a listener-supported radio station or Internet station of the near future that played not only Macy Gray and D'Angelo, but also their sources -- Curtis Mayfield, Jimi Hendrix, Marvin Gaye, Rufus. And also Al Green and Shirley Caesar (gospel music, and in fact all religious devotion, is "alternative" these days); Billie Holiday, John Coltrane and Betty Carter (jazz -- misunderstood and underappreciated, yet one of America's dearest notions -- remains our ultimate alternative music); the sweet Afro-Peruvian grooves of Susana Baca, the Brazilian funk of Jorge Ben; Cassandra Wilson's sophisticated projects of folk Americana.
Black pop has been a producer's game for the last two decades; now it's musicians who are starting to shape a wider aesthetic.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: D'Angelo at the offices of Virgin Records in Manhattan. Rising to the challenge of becoming a complete singer-songwriter, he is making new music that is wise, largely unslick and stubbornly idiosyncratic. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) (pg.1); Macy Gray, left; Marie Daulne of Zap Mama, center; Angie Stone. Call their music "natural R-and-B," in part a reference to Afro hair styles. (Agence France-Presse (Ms. Gray); Rahav Segev (Ms. Daulne) and Associated Press) (pg.40)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); SONG WRITING (72%); 

PERSON: STEVIE WONDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



555 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 25; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7545 words

HEADLINE: Al Gore Moves Beyond Meta

BYLINE: By James Bennet; James Bennet is a staff writer for the magazine. He wrote about the Reform Party in October.

 BODY:
Any organization reflects its leader, as Al Gore says, and for most of last year his presidential campaign was the outward sign of an inward turmoil. At the beginning of 1999, he was certain to stroll to the Democratic nomination. Who would have predicted that, before the year was out, he would change campaign managers and chiefs of staff, replace his pollsters and his admen, truck his headquarters from Washington to Nashville and begin the year 2000 worried he would have less cash on hand after the New Hampshire primary than Bill Bradley, the challenger he once dismissed? Though born and bred for higher office and schooled by Bill Clinton for seven years in the getting and holding of the presidency, Gore was unprepared to run for the job to a degree baffling to some of his advisers. This past year -- particularly the past four months -- has provided a bracing political education for a man who had no clue how much he needed it.
"It's sort of like the experience that most of us have in getting older," the vice president told me during a rare appearance in his West Wing office, a few days before Christmas. "You look back at a previous point in your life and find it difficult to believe how little you knew. I look back now at the beginning of the year, while the impeachment trial was about to begin and incoming rounds were landing on the White House roof every 30 seconds, and I can't believe that I decided to put the campaign on K Street." He roared with laughter. "You know, hello?" 
 That Gore is still talking in detail about that education is evidence that it remains under way. The early, very public incompetence of his campaign created a political problem that he is still struggling to solve; it lent weight to Democrats' central concern about him, that he lacked the political wherewithal to beat an impressive Republican candidate. To combat the relentlessly negative reviews of his campaign, Gore has been forced to make the quality of his campaigning central to his candidacy, to ballyhoo the move of his headquarters to Nashville, for example, while Bradley kept on talking about health care or child poverty and his advisers remained silently behind their curtains. This has repeatedly returned Gore to the same shaky ground -- his political ability -- while lending heft to a related doubt about him: that he is a programmable man guided more by tactics than beliefs. Gore's problem, in short, has been less alpha or beta than meta.
It's a peculiar problem, for what Gore has been learning this past year is how to be a politician -- which is, of course, the job description of a candidate. Unfortunately for Gore, however, it is a dirty word.
But what is so wicked about a politician politicking? This year, candidates and reporters are condemning politics and praising "authenticity." Antipolitics has been with us for some time now; authenticity is this campaign's variant, a kind of characterological shorthand for everything politics allegedly is not -- honest, deep, real. But those who tout authenticity are making an almost useless distinction, at least as far as campaigning goes. If authenticity is what the people want (and, help me here, when was it that they clamored for fakery?), then it is a political act to give it to them. Was it "authentic" for Bradley as a senator to study Elvis Presley movies in hopes of honing his communication skills? He was looking to change himself to appeal to people, the essence of inauthenticity. On the other hand, he was hoping to appeal to people in order to lead them, the essence of good politics.
 The phony divide between authenticity and politicking was captured by the tumult earlier this month over John McCain's letters pressuring the F.C.C. to speed up a decision important to a donor. Captain Campaign Reform suddenly looked like just another politician. Yes, by all means take the excessive money out of politics; but don't take the politics out, to paraphrase Clinton. In policing the bureaucracy on behalf of his constituents, including donors, McCain was being who he is, an authentic politician. Put another way, he was doing his job.
Gore's chief problem is that deep down he suspects it is dishonorable to be a politician, and this can make him a bad one. He reminds me a bit of some second-generation auto dealers, the expensively educated sons of self-made men who balk at the tactics of the family business they know so intimately. "He doesn't really like politics," one of Gore's closest aides told me. "He holds it in disdain." But he is gradually coming to terms with his outer politician. As with the move to Nashville, campaign gestures that were entirely political -- gestures that Gore feared would be derided as entirely political -- have had political effects that have reminded him what is so great about politics: it connects candidates with voters.
This was illustrated by his challenge to Bradley that they forego political advertising and hold plenty of debates instead. Pundits immediately dismissed the proposal as a political gimmick. They were right that it was a gimmick. They were wrong to dismiss it. Gore was led, by political considerations, to suggest a reform that would have elevated the discussion and released some of the money pressure. His offer left Bradley in the position of defending 30-second commercials as a more effective means of communication. Which is the more cynical -- or if you prefer, "political" -- position? Who cares?
As a politician, Gore is making progress. Man, message and political machine mesh more smoothly now than four months ago. The changes in each did not come at once, but they occurred over roughly the same time -- just before and after Gore shifted his headquarters to Nashville in October -- and they reinforced one another. A new team of loyal advisers, his own competitive nature and a rediscovery of his competence at face-to-face politicking have probably given him enough confidence and focus to win the Democratic nomination, barring any egregious blunders. He has solidified his position in Iowa and strengthened it in New York, which may force Bradley to divert time and money from the West and the South to what had once looked like a sure state for him.
Yet doubts about politics are still getting in his way. Like Clinton, Gore is ruthless -- a quality operatives who know him cite with respect -- and he will do what he thinks it takes to win. But he is not as consistently right about what the "it" is, because, unlike Clinton, he does not have much respect for the muddle of personality and policy that is presidential campaigning. And that causes him, sometimes, to disrespect his audience, to act as if it must be led by the nose, for who but the dim would take this circus seriously? Hence his stagy offer of a handshake to Bradley when he proposed shunning political ads, a contrived -- O.K., "inauthentic" -- gesture that undercut his words.
The focus on Gore's politicking might seem to overlook the question of how good a president, as opposed to a candidate, he would be -- to sell short his policy expertise, for example, which is unmatched in the Democratic or Republican field. But the questions are not separable, as Gore himself acknowledges. "I think that the way a candidate for president communicates with the voters is directly relevant to the way a president communicates with the American people after the election," he told me.
Of course, it is about listening as well as talking. Gore learned this when his father drifted out of touch with his constituents -- undermining his ability to reconcile them to his antiwar position -- and lost his bid for re-election to the Senate in 1970. He seemed for most of last year to have forgotten that. But he has been learning again to pay attention, as he did when he was in Congress, to listen to voters and to answer their questions. Before small groups this fall and winter, Gore has displayed a mastery of intricate matters, a knack for explaining them and an agile sense of humor. He has also become a better debater, finally swallowing his aggravation with Clinton and expressing some pride in the work they did in what Bradley derided as a Washington "bunker." Gore's comeback to Bradley's "bunker" remark was canned, and his own advisers wished he had been quick-witted enough to generate it when Bradley first attacked. But at last he managed to take credit for Clinton administration policies without embracing, or trashing, Clinton the man.
Gore has been relearning what it is to seek votes for himself, and in this quest he has been aided not by soul-searching but by pros who never lose sleep about whether some tactic is too political. One day this fall, mid-turnaround, Donna Brazile, Gore's campaign manager, sketched a triangle for me on a sheet of paper in her cubbyhole of an office in Nashville. Along one edge she wrote the words "proven leader" and along the next she wrote "principled fighter." By the third she wrote "experience that matters."
To make sure that the American people got the right message about her complicated boss, Brazile and other campaign staff members were struggling at the time to fit their thoughts about him into that shape, which was designed by Carter Eskew, Gore's message guru and the most influential man in his campaign. "Every conversation -- no matter how it starts off -- it's got to go into this box," Brazile explained. "Whether it's Social Security, health care, education -- O.K.?" Then, beside the triangle, she sketched a square. She attached the same labels to three of the sides, and along the fourth she added the words "substantive differences with Bill Bradley." This is not about geometry. It is entirely about politics.
Above the conference table, Michael Whouley, whip thin and balding, was all gravelly voice and fiercely focused gaze, but beneath it he was all motion. He perched on the edge of his seat, the balls of his feet against the floor and his knees punching the air or waggling together and apart. He rubbed his hands together, then systematically cracked each knuckle.
Arrayed before him, with varying degrees of wariness, were the top 15 staff members of Gore's campaign in Iowa. Around them, taped to the walls of Gore's Des Moines headquarters, were sheets of white construction paper bearing the lyrical names of Iowa's counties -- Wapello, Dallas, Jasper -- with the percentage of Democratic delegates that will come from each, the number of voters committed to Gore and the number that he needs to win. Whouley was there to make sure that those last two numbers matched by Jan. 24, when Iowa's first-in-the-nation caucuses are to be held.
"Nothing -- less -- than -- that -- is -- acceptable," he said, hands above the table and pressed prayerfully together now, their heels rapping it at each word.
There is something of a class divide between American political operatives. There are the high-flying media advisers who expensively conduct the war from the air and draw reporters' attention, and then there are the organizers in jeans and flannel shirts who fight it out on the ground, in every precinct. Whouley, a Bostonian whose thick Dorchester accent renders him an "organizuh," is, along with Donna Brazile, one of the Democrats' most experienced in the second category, which is the reason Gore turned to him when his campaign stumbled. Whouley, who is 40, took charge of the campaign in New Hampshire and Iowa after Gore got a wake-up call from The Boston Globe. On Sept. 5, it published a survey showing him and Bradley in a statistical tie in New Hampshire. Some Gore advisers date the campaign's turnaround to that poll. Confident that Bush and not Bradley was the problem, the campaign had not polled in New Hampshire since July.
At a meeting with Gore's supporters in New Hampshire, Whouley got an earful. Set off by rope lines, Secret Service agents and lecterns, Gore was running the sort of imperial campaign that repelled the state's cosseted voters. The headquarters in Washington and the vice president's office did not listen to suggestions from the field. It took conference call after conference call to schedule the most basic of events, and then even more wrangling to vet the list of invitees and choose the backdrop.
In Iowa, the situation was less severe. Gore had done more retail politicking there, in part because an aggressive campaign team on the ground had won some of its screaming matches with the vice-presidential staff. But Gore worried that the campaign might not be building the precinct-by-precinct organization needed to corral voters for the evening-long caucuses, which are to take place tomorrow. In each of the 2,142 precincts, the campaign needed a volunteer captain able to drag other supporters in.
Anticipating a Bradley push into Iowa, Gore's top aides feared that he could narrow the gap enough to outperform reporters' expectations, or even win. Whouley found that the campaign was not ready to beat him back. One exhausted staff member was carrying the burden of overseeing the caucuses in all 99 counties.
When he reported to the vice president, Whouley recommended that he begin holding town-hall meetings with undecided voters in New Hampshire. He also requested a reorganization of the Iowa campaign structure.
Iowa was divided into six regions, each overseen by a new regional director. Now, in mid-December, Whouley had come to grill the directors on their progress and to find out how much money they needed from headquarters; no new field office, he insisted, should cost more than $100 a month. Above all, he wanted to make sure they were aware of the stakes. He told them that each held "Al Gore's political viability" in his hands.
If Gore stumbles in Iowa, his failure will surely be attributed to his personal appeal or his advertising. In fact, his success or failure will turn on this detail work invisible at the national level. It may be gritty politics, but it is also the side of campaigning that engages hundreds of young people and volunteers. Should the campaign rent 100 sport utility vehicles to drive people to the caucuses in case it snows? ("Bradley's demographic is suburban, and they drive Volvos," Whouley warned. "The new Volvos have four-wheel drive.") How many phone lines, at $40 a pop, must a new field office have to conduct 400 calls a night? Where should they send the volunteers who would pour into Iowa right before the caucuses? Should Gore himself place a call to a particular teetering county supervisor? What should be done about the two organizers in eastern Iowa discovered eating Cheerios during telephone time? "Can we fire these people?" inquired Whouley, with sudden, icy fury. "Why does this region have so many expletive knuckleheads?"
Whouley's message in Des Moines reflected Brazile's top priorities since Gore elevated her from political director to campaign manager: cutting spending and instilling some passion in the staff.
One of nine children from Kenner, La., Brazile likes to keep her expenses low enough that she could survive, if she had to, working a double shift at McDonald's. She believes paid consultants are somehow antidemocratic. She spends her vacations organizing for congressional candidates. And so she was deeply uncomfortable with the colorless, spiritless campaign Gore was running from K Street, Washington's Lobbyists' Row, where the headquarters was spread across three floors. Bill Bradley had more of a cult than a campaign, she thought, while sometimes the Gore operation felt like a travel agency.
Those problems had bothered Gore for months. In early May, he brought in Coelho in hopes of disciplining his operation. That was a gamble, since Coelho, a Californian who had risen to majority whip largely on the strength of his prodigious fund-raising, had left Congress under a cloud 10 years ago, and risked further marking Gore as the insiders' candidate. Gore and Coelho were friendly in the House, but they had never been close. But Gore realized that he needed someone toughened by bare-knuckle Democratic politics, someone with "gray hair." In their private conversations, Gore assured Coelho that if he ran a good campaign, the smudges of his past would take care of themselves.
Gore likes to run his offices on what one former aide described as a hub-and-spoke model, with himself as the hub. In the early days of the campaign, Gore had several competing power centers: his campaign headquarters, his consultants, his vice-presidential office, and his kitchen cabinet, which includes his wife, Tipper; his brother-in-law, Frank Hunger, and his daughter Karenna. Coelho, who is working without salary, established a chain of command on a corporate model, with himself functioning as the chief executive officer under the chairman, Gore.
In June, Gore had asked Coelho how much it would cost to move the campaign headquarters from Washington to Nashville. Coelho looked into breaking the K Street lease, which was due to last into 2001, but found there was no way to do it. Like other advisers Gore consulted, Coelho worried that moving the headquarters would be derided by the press as a gimmick. "Before he did it, it was easy to see all the negatives," Karenna Gore Schiff recalled.
By late September, though, Gore was desperate. His fund-raising was lagging, and the quarterly financial report, due at the end of the month, would show that Bradley had raised more than he in the previous three months. He decided the campaign never would get off the ground if it stayed in Washington. Gore opened his Nashville headquarters in a former rehabilitation center beside some railroad tracks on Oct. 6. (He is still paying $60,000 a month for empty offices on K Street.)
The same day, he promoted Brazile, who began an examination of what she called "Goreworld," the results of which revolted her. Consultants were getting paid as much as $15,000 monthly; paid advisers were rendering opinions on what kind of paper the headquarters should use.
Although fund-raising has been tougher than the campaign expected since Bradley tapped into his potential donors in Silicon Valley and elsewhere, Gore is closing in on the amount he is allowed to spend in the primaries, about $33 million. But Bradley, who has raised almost as much, was able to spend more this winter on advertising in Iowa and New Hampshire because Gore wasted so much in the first nine months of the year. During that period, Gore reported spending nearly two times as much on office rent as Bradley, more than twice as much on office supplies and about 12 times as much on parking. Brazile starting chopping salaries, which were both an enormous expense and a hallmark of the corporate culture she wanted to kill. She then set her sights on perks.
Shortly after her promotion, Brazile was a little too frank about her vision for Gore's support. In an interview with The Washington Post, she said that the "four pillars" of the Democratic Party were women, blacks, organized labor and ethnic minorities and that its "emerging constituencies" were the disabled, environmentalists and gay men and lesbians. This unnerved the moderates over at the Democratic Leadership Council, who feared that eight years of Clintonian sidling to the middle could vanish in a panicked leftward lurch by Gore.
The incident inflamed concerns, at least outside the campaign, about Brazile. In 1988, she had been forced to resign from the Dukakis campaign after what her colleagues there considered a bizarre episode, in which she suggested that reporters check out rumors about Vice President George Bush's marital life. As far back as April, Brazile had privately assured Gore that she had learned from the experience and that she would never embarrass him. As campaign manager, she has been careful to say that Carter Eskew is in charge of the message, and she has been intently studying what he says. "See, they're teaching me to talk message, which is what I want to learn anyway," she told me. "I want to stop talking about it as African-Americans, women, labor, bladdy bladdy bladdy blah." But she slipped again earlier this month when she mocked black Republicans for being tokens of a party that cares little about minorities, managing to offend Colin Powell. Her statements once more yanked attention away from her candidate and centered it on his campaign.
Brazile's mistake was in talking about what she was doing, rather than just doing it. Regardless of the message she is learning, Brazile has been important in shoring up Gore's support among the Democrats' traditional constituencies. She is an expert at what she calls "smoke and mirrors," that is, making a candidate's support seem greater than it is. And like any good organizer -- like Whouley, who kept assuring the Des Moines workers that Shania Twain would do an event for Gore, though he had never spoken to her -- Brazile has a tendency to talk a little big to fire up the troops.
Yet in each of three visits to the Nashville headquarters, I was struck by how few Gore bumper stickers I saw in the parking lot. Notwithstanding the enthusiasm of some longtime Tennessee volunteers and young staff members, I found little burning passion for Gore among his advisers. He is too familiar and too lacking in charisma, and too many of his aides have seen too many candidates. They say that he is no natural politician, for all his confidence in his own political acumen. But this is not to say his aides are not dedicated to electing him. While they may not marvel at his magnetism or vision, his advisers talk with deep respect of his decency, policy judgment and commitment to public service. If this is not the Clinton crusade of 1992, it is also not the Clinton advertising firm of 1996.
The move to Nashville, which could have been a disaster, has produced a leaner, more spirited team. Junior staff members go out for beers with one another at night, rather than with college pals in Washington. Without other familiar distractions, they come into the office on weekends and go to work. This group will build up a lot more passion if the race becomes a contest between Gore and Bush, rather than two centrist Democrats whose dislike for each other has concealed how little difference there is between them politically.
Because this is a campaign that wears its underwear on the outside, the reorganization became, perforce, part of its message. For months, Gore advisers believe, all voters had heard about the vice president was that his campaign was a mess. The man who had staked his reputation on "reinventing government" had pulled out a clean sheet of paper and created a bloated bureaucracy. So the campaign's turnaround had to become part of Gore's story, and the campaign encouraged numerous articles about the new headquarters and profiles of Brazile in a bid also to lend some pizazz to Gore's image. For comparison's sake, ask yourself how many profiles of Bradley's campaign manager you have read. Her name is Gina Glantz.
Despite that necessary distraction, Gore began this fall to bring his own message into focus at last, with the help of primarily two men: Carter Eskew and Bill Bradley.
Top advisers to Gore, past and present, insist that they always knew that Bradley would emerge as a serious challenger. Last spring, internal memos raised the question whether the campaign should start publicly drawing comparisons with him. But Gore's strategists concluded that to talk about Bradley would be to elevate him. The guiding, poll-driven premise was that if Gore drew within 10 points of Bush, the Bradley challenge would disappear. And the campaign had set itself the laudable goal, laughable now, of remaining positive throughout the primaries.
Casting Gore as the inevitable nominee had worked at first. It had helped persuade potential candidates who seemed far more dangerous, like Dick Gephardt, to stay off the stage. "But there's a difference between putting out a sense of inevitability and acting as if you're inevitable," one Gore adviser said. "The fundamental operating theory of the campaign in the early days was that Bill Bradley is only a nuisance; the real issue is George Bush. The primary is about setting ourselves up for the general election."
Gore ran as an incumbent, much the way he and Bill Clinton ran in 1996. That style fit the strategy of the campaign, and it also fit the culture of the vice president's office, which was as accustomed to elaborately staged events cooked up by expensive advance-staff members as it was to the restrictions of the Secret Service and the easy life on Air Force Two. So, despite the pleas of his New Hampshire organization, Gore tended to give high-profile speeches rather than chat in crammed living rooms. These days, Gore thinks back on that period, with a shudder, as when he was running as a vice president who wanted a promotion.
It was obvious to Gore and his staff that he was not reaching voters, particularly outside of Iowa. Some of his advisers thought that the vice president had never recovered his confidence as a speaker since he was swamped by the campaign-finance scandal two years ago. On the stump this summer, he seemed to be groping, at times shouting out his speeches, and then at others delivering them like an automaton.
In early July, at Gore's urging, Coelho brought in Eskew, a 45-year-old consultant. The move revealed how anxious the campaign had already become, because there were several reasons not to make it: Eskew had helped to create ad campaigns for the tobacco companies, a role that would expose Gore to charges of hypocrisy; he would intensify the view of the campaign as overstocked with high-priced consultants; and he was not on speaking terms with another of Gore's media advisers, Robert Squier, who left the campaign shortly thereafter.
Gore and Coelho believed Eskew's benefits outweighed his baggage. With surprising unanimity, Eskew, a sapient fellow with the air of an assistant English professor, is seen as perhaps the best Democratic adman in the business. He has a reputation for creatively puncturing opponents' images; one famously devastating Eskew campaign, on behalf of Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, used cartoons to portray Lowell P. Weicker Jr., then a U.S. senator, as a lazy bear snoozing through important votes.
Eskew shares Gore's Ivy League credentials, an important consideration for the vice president when it comes to advisers. He also has an ironic detachment from the very politicking he engages in, which nicely suits the vice president's sharper contempt for the business and for political operatives as a class. Most important, Eskew has known Gore since the two men worked as reporters for The Nashville Tennessean in the early 70's, he has worked on almost all his campaigns and he is deeply loyal to Gore. He is one of very few men, Gore's associates say, whom the vice president talks to like an equal over a drink.
At times, Eskew can seem abstracted. "I really should pay more attention to these details," he mused almost to himself this fall when a reporter pointed out that in one advertisement Gore had his sleeves rolled up but his tie knotted against his throat. Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, says, "He's as good as anybody I've ever come across in understanding how to communicate with people, but often a conversation with him is quite disjointed."
Coelho, who regards Eskew as brilliant, put him in complete control of the message team, which includes Bob Shrum, the veteran Democratic speechwriter and adman, and Bill Knapp, a wisecracking native New Yorker and partner of Squier's who helped elect Clinton in 1996. Coelho's idea was to get Gore to stop worrying so much about the details of his campaign, like his schedule, and to spend his time honing his message with Eskew. Now the two men talk several times daily, sometimes several times hourly.
It has been widely reported that Karenna Gore Schiff and Naomi Wolf, the writer and Gore consultant, had urged the vice president to distance himself from the president. This is true. But it understates the sway that this theory already held, and holds, among his staff members, including Eskew. It is campaign orthodoxy. This has led the campaign to play down Gore's impressive work in the Clinton administration.
"It's not what matters so much in this election," Karenna Gore Schiff said of the last seven years. "What matters is who the candidates are and what they're going to do, and my dad's experience goes pretty far back. It goes back to 1976, not 1992."
Personally, Gore remains resentful of Clinton and angry at him for enmeshing him in his scandals, his associates say. But his efforts to distance himself are driven more by a political calculation that voters still see him as Clinton's yes man, rather than as a leader -- in fact, a "fighter" -- in his own right, and theirs.
At times, the personal and the political have been hard to separate. Gore moved up the announcement of his candidacy to mid-June in the belief that otherwise voters would continue to see him only as the vice president. But then he stepped on his own message by criticizing Clinton in an interview taped in advance. Similarly, he enraged many Clinton loyalists in October, in his first debate with Bradley, by seizing on a vague question about politics to criticize Clinton.
Once a week, usually on Tuesdays, Coelho still conducts a conference call with John D. Podesta, the chief of staff, and other White House aides. But lower-level aides say they are no longer being pressed to consider Gore's campaign needs as they plan White House events. The White House these days is divided into two camps. "I'm like, 'You guys, how much do you expect us to take?"' one White House aide told me this fall, after the Gore team had requested that the vice president, rather than Clinton, handle a particular announcement. Gore had just slammed Clinton in his first debate with Bradley. "They're complaining that we want to be quoted in a story that has something to do with us," this aide fumed.
Clinton aides, accustomed to a politician able to knife an opponent and hug him in the same paragraph, regard Gore now with a kind of wounded condescension. They understand his need to establish his independence, but they roll their eyes over the clumsy way he does it, wondering why he does not make more of the administration's successes. The word one most often hears from them in summing up his political approach is "sledgehammer."
Gore and Clinton still talk by telephone two or three times a week. But when I asked Gore if he had ever consulted Clinton about the campaign, he immediately said no. "He's a skilled politician," Gore said, "and from time to time in our conversations he will offer some advice." There are two possibilities here: either Gore is fibbing, in which case he still feels obliged to exaggerate his personal distance from Clinton, or in fact the gap is quite significant, and despite the galaxy of advisers he has consulted, he chooses to overlook the Democrat who knows best how to run both as a challenger and as an incumbent.
For his part, Clinton misses Gore's advice, presidential aides say. Gore was able to use sarcasm to puncture Clinton's self-pitying or bombastic moods, and Clinton trusted him to tell the whole truth. "He looks at the rest of us," one Clinton aide said of his boss, "and he thinks: 'Is he telling me everything? Are they manipulating me?"'
Gore's advisers believe that the vice president had to separate himself from Clinton because he is, in the campaign's formulation, "famous but unknown." The campaign found, for example, that most voters did not know that Gore had ever been anything but a politician. Eskew went to work with Gore sharpening his biography and weaving it into his standard stump speech. They zeroed in on dramatic points in Gore's own life and also the lives of his parents.
Gore had spoken about all these matters, intermittently and sometimes movingly, for years. Now he was joining them in a tight triad of parables that would give a narrative edge to his standard stump speech and to the populist theme that Eskew emphasized to define Gore's career: that he was a fighter against special interests, as one senior Gore strategist put it, "representing the people against them."
Throughout the summer, Gore lacked what has always been a crucial element in his political campaigns: something to run against. Any politician would suffer when compared with an abstract standard; any campaign lacks focus when it lacks an immediate objective. Gore in particular is most engaged when he is on the attack, a fact that puzzles and saddens even some of his most loyal associates. But for most of the summer Bush remained a phantom, his popularity surging while his specific plans remained unknown. Bradley was unmentionable. Then came the Boston Globe poll.
On Sept. 25, during a speech to the Democratic National Committee in Washington, Gore unveiled a new approach, leaving the lectern and its vice-presidential seal to stroll before the crowd as he described his disillusionment over Vietnam. Four days later, in announcing the move to Nashville, he mentioned Bradley by name for the first time. And less than two weeks after that, when he and Bradley appeared together before a Democratic dinner in Iowa, Gore went on the attack, labeling Bradley a quitter for walking away from politics and the party when he left the Senate. "Stay and Fight" read the posters the Gore campaign prepared for the evening.
As reporters gradually caught on to the game, the Gore camp confidently dismissed as inside-the-Beltway nattering any suggestions that their candidate was too negative, though they kept an eye on their internal polls. Primary voters, they said, wanted to hear about differences. The "Stay and Fight" theme, they believed, bolstered the campaign's preferred image of Gore while playing to a gnawing doubt party loyalists held about Bradley. (The Gore camp had intended to repeat the performance at an appearance before party activists in Orlando in December, but suspended their plans when Bradley disclosed his heart trouble the day before.)
The struggle with Bradley, Gore's advisers believe, could permit Gore to erase doubts about his character and leadership ability, the usual burden of a vice president. "The real issue here is not a lot different from the wimp factor that dogged Bush," one senior Gore aide said. "We need this fight to position ourselves with voters and to show that we can fight. It gets us out from under this vice-presidential shadow."
As Gore went on offense, Bradley made some serious mistakes: he decided not to respond in hopes of seeming above the fray and he put out an ambitious but fuzzy health care plan, which Gore began whacking like a pinata. Gore's team was terrified that the plan might lend substance to Bradley's claim to "big ideas." The goal of the attacks was to neutralize health care as the core of Bradley's positive message. But as Gore advisers realized they could attack the plan both from the left (as jeopardizing Medicaid) and from the right (as eating up the surplus), they came to see the issue as a net positive for Gore.
Once the campaign moved to Nashville, Brazile began holding weekly staff meetings. On the first day in December, about 50 people, most in jeans and T-shirts and in their 20's, stopped their work in the "pit" -- the big, windowless room at the center of the headquarters -- and gathered to listen as she opened the meeting by asking what they had for Thanksgiving dinner. Then she turned it over to Eskew.
In turtleneck sweater, chinos and running shoes, Eskew provided an update on the campaign's message -- that is, on what was wrong with the other guy. He told the group that the campaign was making good progress in drawing a "health care contrast" with Bradley and was moving on to the economy. "The issue there again is Senator Bradley's health care plan," he said. "It spends the entire surplus, which puts a lot of pressure back on deficits, which in turn put a lot of pressure on interest rates, et cetera. It's an issue of I think great importance in New Hampshire, certainly."
But he saw another opportunity, Eskew continued: Bradley had left the door open to cutting benefits or raising taxes to shore up Social Security. "Not a good idea in any event," he said, "particularly in a Democratic primary. So, I think once again he's sort of gotten dangerously close to what's known as the third rail in, certainly, Democratic politics, if not American politics."
Even as they envy Bradley his cultlike following, Gore's top strategists are deeply contemptuous of him. They think that he has gotten a free ride from the press, compared with the beating that their boss has taken, and that his support remains confined to elite Northeasterners. They believe he is uncomfortable with issues critical to blue-collar Democrats, like holding the line on Social Security's retirement age, and they scorn Bradley's efforts to use his campaign to highlight issues like race that do not already preoccupy most voters. They believe most Democratic voters care about health care, education and the economy, and in each of those areas, Gore's polling shows that he has an advantage among Democrats.
This conclusion can yield a dismayingly reductive approach to the possibilities of modern presidential politics, one that exchanges the roles of leader and led. "We used to say, in the late 80's, if you don't like the issues terrain, change it," one Gore strategist said. "In the late 90's, you can't do it. Voters don't have the patience and, frankly, they don't have the attention span. You have to talk about them." If Bradley wants to talk about race, he shrugged, "Fine."
I saw the new Gore in early November, in Des Moines, and fittingly, the subject that brought him out was the change in his campaign style. Gore used a question about that tired subject to poke fun at political posturing, showing a side of himself that reporters were accustomed to seeing only off the record. At an impromptu news conference, Cragg Hines, the erudite Washington bureau chief of The Houston Chronicle, asked Gore when he had the "Damascene" moment that led to his campaign conversion.
Gore did not hesitate. "It was an epiphany," he began at his most deadly earnest, "that occurred in the midst of an interview with The Houston Chronicle. The questions were so penetrating; they included words that I didn't know. And when I looked them up, I thought, I gotta change my campaign."
By then, Gore was regularly holding town-hall meetings -- open meetings, as he prefers to call them, from his days as a congressional candidate -- in New Hampshire and Iowa. His answers could be overlong; his smile blinked off and on as needed, like high beams; and he had a tendency to turn his head from the waist. He had a bit of the attitude of the schoolboy with a hand perpetually raised, as he paraded his knowledge of airline deregulation, Social Security financing or breakaway Soviet republics. But in a transparently political gesture, he would stay for hours, until the last question was asked. He wasn't fighting it. In fact, he was enjoying himself.
And it worked for him. Steve Hildebrand, Gore's Iowa campaign manager, worried that the town halls burned up too much of the candidate's time, the most precious resource as the caucuses approached. Why spend three hours with 200 undecided voters when you could do an event with 450 people in 70 minutes? Then one night in December he drove to Iowa City for a follow-up look at the undecided voters who had been at a town hall. The "conversion" rate was incredible: 80 percent of the uncommitted voters who heard him had switched to Gore.
Yet television audiences have not been as impressed, and this may be one of the reasons why he continues to lag as many as 10 points behind George W. Bush nationally. Somehow, for all his credentials and experience, Gore comes off seeming like less than the sum of his parts. In debate, the vice president has been reluctant to take risks; when he has, the result has been damaging, as when he foolishly declared that in appointing Joint Chiefs of Staff he would make support for gays in the military a litmus test. That comment yielded yet another "hastily assembled press conference," as reporters invariably call them, which is something of a Gore signature. Often, Gore seems to be trying too hard. Discussing affirmative action in a town-hall-style debate in Manchester in mid-December, Gore made a telling point, observing that the host had evidently failed to invite many blacks. But then he went too far: "Are there any?" he asked, looking around and starting to point. "There's one -- one in -- in back there."
Though he has grown more comfortable with each debate, Gore still tends to fall back on catapulting jagged speech chunks through the air. His performances recall his 1996 debate with Jack Kemp, when in his answers he repeatedly chanted a mantra ("Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment") as though the television audience were being sleep-taught. After that debate, my grandmother, a believer in Clinton and Gore, left a pained message on my answering machine: "Does he think I am stupid?" This year, "I want to fight for you" is proving to be the patronizing mantra.
Gore knows better. "These techniques inevitably encourage inauthenticity in a politician's message," he wrote of the dangers of sound bites, polling and "personality skills" in his 1992 best seller, "Earth in the Balance." "Why present genuine ideas and true character if artificial ones are more effective in the marketplace of power." When I read some of Gore's words back to him, he told me that he was no longer so concerned about political manipulation, because the audience has grown as sophisticated as the candidates and their consultants. "And what has resulted is that only one thing really works, and that is what's real," he said. "There may be people who are skilled enough and smart enough to use these personality tools to shape their image and affect and appear to be something they're not. I'm not one of them." Exactly so. But what is real still needs politics to be expressed.
Gore's attempts to reach TV audiences often reek of the greasepaint he rightly scorns. As he picks at Bradley, he looks political, and that may hurt his chances with the independents and moderates who, paradoxically, are the very people who are most likely to share his disdain for politics. They might be more impressed if he showed the side of himself that privately deflects operatives' suggestions with the arch question, "Isn't that awfully political?"
One test of Gore's character will be whether he tries to create his own "issues terrain" after all. Those who talk about authenticity are clearly right that voters demand a sense for what a candidate truly believes; political skills -- a feel for who the voters are and an ability to reach them -- result in unalloyed pandering if a politician does not use those skills to guide the country in the direction he believes it should go. At some point, Gore will start making the environment an issue, and the question will be whether he uses it just to flesh out his biography or to build public support for the aggressive policies he claims to favor. Gore was disappointed in himself after his failed 1988 bid for the presidency in part because of how he ran. His pollsters told him that voters did not care much about the environment, and he came to play it down. In this race, Gore has talked about the environment when asked, but he has not made it a priority. His strategists argue that it is not a point of distinction with Bradley. They say that it will become a bigger issue in the general election campaign, because Bush's environmental record is weak.
When I asked Gore if there was any issue that wasn't on voters' minds that he intended to raise, he answered without a moment's pause: global warming. Then, rather disappointingly, he argued that in fact the issue is already on voters' minds. "I think people now feel it in their own lives, and I think they're worried about it, and they should be worried about it."
Bradley so far has bested Gore largely on style points. His ease in public, his seeming candor and his apparent disregard for old-school maneuvering have managed to make Gore seem simultaneously clumsy and slick. Gore may lack a common touch or patrician grace, yet he has learned, in meeting with voters away from the television cameras, that he can make a style of substance. In that setting, he communicates without contempt for the process or the people who take it seriously, as they should. He has to learn to take that skill on the air. He will need it in the downtime between the primaries and the Democratic convention, should he get that far. He will need it in the general election; and he will need it to govern. Before Gore can hope to seem like less of a politician, he will have to become more of one.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The candidate conferring with aides and Senator Ted Kennedy, right, before discussing health care proposals with senior citizens in Portsmouth, N.H.; The image protectors and makers. Right: Donna Brazile, far right, at a Gore 2000 shindig in Washington. Below: Tony Coelho presiding over a meeting of the campaign staff in Nashville. Bottom right: Carter Eskew, left, and Chris Lehane, the campaign spokesman, out of sight of the verbal sparring during the Jan. 5 Gore-Bradley debate in Durham, N.H. (Photographs by Larry Fink for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (66%); CHILD POVERTY (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TED KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



556 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2958 words

HEADLINE: Gogol a Go-Go

BYLINE: By Jason Cowley; Jason Cowley is literary editor of The New Statesman magazine in London. His first novel, "Unknown Pleasures," will be published by Faber & Faber in May.

 BODY:
Upon returning to Moscow recently from a stay in a Buddhist monastery in South Korea, the Russian novelist Victor Pelevin received a surprise phone call from an Orthodox priest. Why, the patriarch demanded to know, had Pelevin -- unlike the great Alexander Solzhenitsyn, or the even greater Leo Tolstoy -- neglected his Christianity? "I told him I hadn't neglected my Christianity," Pelevin says. "I grew up in an atheist country! He was unconvinced. He said that because I was popular with the young, I had a responsibility to set a good example. I was polite to the old man, but his expectations of me were ridiculous. I'm a writer. I have a responsibility to no one."
Nearly anywhere else, this remark would seem like a harmless expression of artistic self-assertion. But no country is more haunted by the spirit of its dead writers than Russia; even today writers still occupy an emblematic position in society. Yet just as Moscow has escaped its Communist torpor for the willful chaos of post-Soviet life, so the Russian image of the novelist is no longer that of reverent seer or even heroic dissident. Rather, if anyone embodies the new image of the writer in Russia it is the 38-year-old Pelevin, a laconic semi-recluse with a shaved head, a fashionable interest in Zen meditation and an eccentric attachment to dark glasses. (He is seldom seen without them.) 
 Even as pulp fiction and pornography increasingly fill Moscow bookstalls, Pelevin has emerged as that unusual thing: a genuinely popular serious writer. He is almost alone among his generation of Russian novelists in speaking with a voice authentically his own, and in trying to write about Russian life in its current idiom. It's a finger-clickingly contemporary voice: wry, exaggerated, wised-up, amused. His mode of writing about low life in a high style, his talent for the fantastic and the grotesque and his interest in drugs, computer games and junk culture have resonated with a generation for whom the novel was becoming too slow a form. And he is, unlike many fellow Russian writers whose fiction is largely preoccupied with the trauma of the Soviet past, not in flight from present difficulties. In fact, he embraces them with the ruthless ardor of a child pulling wings off a butterfly.
"Generation P," Pelevin's most recent novel, was a summer sensation in Russia, selling more than 200,000 copies. (The translation to English is still being completed.) The book tracks the adventures of a skeptical intellectual, Vavilen Tatarsky, who becomes a kopiraiter -- an advertising copywriter -- adrift in a glamorously corrupt Moscow. He spends his days devising Russian versions of Western slogans: "Gucci for Men -- Be a European, Smell Better."
The title is clearly a reference to America's jaded Generation X. But what does the "P" mean? "It could mean any one of three things," Pelevin says. "It could stand for Pepsi, or Pelevin, or" -- he uses a vulgar Russian slang term that can be translated loosely as "absolute catastrophe" -- or all three of these at once." So Pelevin's generation of liberal freedoms and designer excesses is also the generation of criminality, corruption and despair. "I feel disgusted by everything about my country," he says. "In the Soviet times you could escape from the evil of the state by withdrawing into the private spaces of your own head; but now the evil seems to be diffused everywhere. We are all tainted by it."
Spend any time in Moscow and you will soon discover that no other writer polarizes opinion quite like Victor Pelevin. To the influential critic Andrei Nemzer, he is an "infantile writer producing books for an infantile society." To Igor Shaitanov, a professor of literature at the Russian State Humanities University, Pelevin is a "phony" whose fiction has a "dangerous emptiness." And yet, step outside the cloistered world of Moscow's literary intelligentsia, and you will find fierce adherents. Natasha Perova, the editor who first discovered him, calls Pelevin "the voice of a generation, who is taking the Russian novel in new directions."
Pelevin's most committed readers -- those who post his short stories on the Internet and swap his books at nightclubs as if they were samizdat -- are the disaffected young, who must see something of the surreality of their own lives reflected in his cool, ironic prose. "He's the only writer who seems to be writing about the way we live today, with all its absurdities and heartaches," says Katya Loktova, a 19-year-old student at Moscow State University.
Pelevin smiles when I ask him about his young readers. "You know," he says, "they ask me the strangest questions. 'Mr. Pelevin,' they say, 'have you ever made love while on Ecstasy?' Other writers are asked what they think about Yeltsin or the NATO intervention in Yugoslavia" -- he begins to laugh -- but I'm asked about sex and Ecstasy." Pelevin has become such an icon for Russian youth that the country's new Green Party tried to enlist him this past fall as its candidate for prime minister in 2000. "At first I was flattered to be asked," Pelevin told me. "But when I thought about it I was disgusted. I didn't want my image exploited in this way. Politics in Russia is all about which group of people can control the most money. The Greens are no different."
The disjunction between those who think Pelevin is a fraud and those who see him as the ideal chronicler of the new Russia was dramatized strikingly when his 1996 novel "Chapaev and Emptiness" (to be published in the United States by Viking this spring as "Buddha's Little Finger") was excluded from the short-list of that year's Russian Booker Prize, the country's pre-eminent fiction award. Igor Shaitanov was chairman of the judges that year, and he defended his jury's unpopular decision by likening the novel -- a hallucinatory recasting of the life of Vasily Chapaev, a mythical Bolshevik hero -- to a computer virus. "It's just too dangerous to support or transmit this kind of cultural image," Shaitanov said. "Works like this act like a cultural virus -- they destroy the cultural memory."
In October, the same Booker drama was tediously repeated when "Generation P" was ignored by the judges. When asked about it, Pelevin was imperiously unconcerned. "I expect nothing less from the literary establishment," he said. "They know I have no interest in their world of committees, reviews and prizes. All I can say is that my books have now sold almost one million copies in Russia. I have my readership. The Booker means nothing to me."
While he may disparage his critics as "incredibly stupid, mean, venomous," Pelevin has deliberately detached himself from the Russian literary mainstream, refusing to attend parties, readings or conferences. He reads very few, if any, of his peers. He cites the Russian satirist Mikhail Bulgakov as an influence, yet expresses deeper affection for foreign writers: Franz Kafka, Hermann Hesse and, even more unfashionably, Robert M. Pirsig, author of "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance." "I want no part of any literary world," Pelevin told me. "The only thing that matters to me is trying to produce something that's true to my vision and that people want to read. To me celebrity is virtual. That you have your picture in the papers. Big deal."
In his own country, at least, Pelevin never gives interviews and refuses to be photographed or appear on television or radio. Very few people even know what he looks like. What he desires most -- or so he claims -- is to be ignored, to be left alone in peace to write and dream. "Part of the attraction of Buddhism for me is that it enables me to empty my head of all the junk of modern living," he says. "I really hate all the attention. It's harmful to me and stops me from getting on with my work. I can only begin writing again once I know that people have forgotten about me."
Such willed withdrawal from the ephemera of celebrity culture to which Russia is as much attached as any country in the West has, naturally, only increased Pelevin's allure. Who is this reclusive Buddhist in the dark glasses who writes such strange, penetrating novels? Is he for real? Russian Vogue was so eager to secure an interview with Pelevin this past summer that a senior editor invited him out for lunch and then secretly recorded their entire conversation. She confessed her subterfuge only at the end of their lunch. "By then," Pelevin says: "I was too drunk to care." As for the ever-present dark glasses, he says, "I'm naturally shy. I hate physical attention. It's torture. I'm wearing these sunglasses now while I'm talking to you and in pictures because it's the only way I can be photographed without being photographed, if you see what I mean."
Pelevin and I are chatting in a sushi bar on the old Arbat, the main tourist drag of the city. After a late summer heat wave during which temperatures climbed uncharacteristically into the low 90's, the severe cold has returned. The extremity of the weather finds an echo in the extremity of life in the city itself: there is war in the Caucasus, unease on the streets after a terrorist bombing campaign and gossip about the ailing Yeltsin giving way to Putin, a former K.G.B. hardliner, a succession that would take place, symbolically, on the very last day of the old century. The new Moscow seems to be passing inexorably through its Weimar phase -- it is an intoxicating, dangerous place, where taxes and wages go mostly unpaid, where citizens openly drive stolen cars and where voracious prostitutes, their lips swelled by collagen injections, patrol the corridors of the international hotels.
Pelevin remains at once exhilarated and repelled by this near-anarchy. In September, he packed up again, first staying two months in Germany before moving on to South Korea, where he planned "to avoid the millennium hype" by spending the winter months deep in meditation among the Buddhist monks. "When I'm away in Korea, spending all day meditating, everything in the world seems to disappear into silence," he says. "I stop smoking, I'm disciplined and I can concentrate on what's important. Living in Russia drains you if you're an intelligent person. We have no civil society, and people have no protection from corrupt rule. Ordinary people are much worse off than they were under Communism; you simply cannot survive on your pension or money from the state." Pelevin himself is fortunate; he now earns around $50,000 a year from his writing, making him wealthy by typical Russian standards -- and allowing him to escape the country for months at a time.
Unusually for a Russian writer, he did not grow up surrounded by writers, intellectuals and dissidents. His parents were part of the old-style Soviet nomenklatura: his father was a military officer, and his mother was an economist from the Russian enclave of the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan. He remembers the long summers of his boyhood being spent happily on a Moscow army base. "I really loved the place, actually," he recalls. "It was like a big playground full of soldiers, a great place to excite the imagination."
Memories from this period informed his first novel, "Omon Ra" (1993), set during the long stagnation of the Brezhnev years. As a child, Omon is fascinated by flight and deep space and dreams of becoming a cosmonaut, a heroic Soviet man in the model of Yuri Gagarin. In his late teens, he enrolls as a cadet at the Zaraisk flying school and begins a grueling training program. His aptitude and diligence impress the authorities, and soon he is selected to be the sole pilot on a one-way, supposedly "unmanned" mission to the dark side of the moon. Omon realizes that such a journey means certain death, his death, but he has no choice and sets off for the moon only to discover, at the end of the novel, that his ship never really left the ground, that the entire Soviet space program is an elaborately choreographed fake. Pelevin's satire, written in the immediate aftermath of Communism's fall and scornful of the heroic bombast of the past, had all the daring and swaggering hauteur of a young man's debut. Richard Bernstein, writing in The Times in 1996, praised "Ra" as "wicked, clever and poetic."
Pelevin, who studied engineering at the Moscow Institute of Power Engineering, did not begin writing fiction until his mid-20's, and he was slow to find a readership. After college he worked as a journalist and in advertising as a copywriter (echoes of "Generation P"). He wrote stories in stolen moments. That "Omon Ra" was published at all owed everything to the acuity of Natasha Perova, who read one of Pelevin's first published stories, "The Blue Lantern," and was excited to see more. "When we met up he handed me the manuscript of 'Omon Ra,"' she told me. "I could see immediately that here was a born writer with his own voice and natural style."
"The Blue Lantern" is a magical evocation of childhood wonder. A group of boys at a summer camp spend the night wondering if their lives are but a dream and the world around them a chimera. Perhaps they are even dead, no more than lingering, evanescent spirits. Perhaps they never lived at all. As with much of Pelevin's early fiction, the story ends on a note of heightened transcendence, with one of the boys lost in a kind of rapture as he peers at the blue lantern burning outside his window, his consciousness teetering on the edge of dissolution, on the very edge of silence. Pelevin's longing to find moments of repose like this -- to elevate himself beyond the white noise of his daily life -- may have inspired his interest in Zen Buddhism. Even when he is in Moscow, he spends many hours each week in deep meditation. And his fiction certainly has a hazy, hallucinogenic quality, as if following the trajectory of a drug trip: luminous, allusive, utterly illogical.
While he is in Moscow, his young female fans would be surprised to discover, he still lives with his aged mother. (He kept me away from his apartment, possibly sharing the embarrassment many Muscovites feel about living in cramped high-rise blocks.) His mother leaves him in peace, he explains, and if "I know where she is, I don't have to worry about her all the time." Pelevin has a longstanding girlfriend, Nina, who works in advertising and wants to marry him, but he remains stalled by indecision. "Do you think I should get married?" he asked me, glancing at my wedding ring. "Well, if you love Nina, why not?" I said.
"It's not such a good idea bringing up children in a country like Russia, and, anyway, I go away so often."
"What does Nina think about that?"
"She thinks I'm a fool."
How serious, then, is Victor Pelevin? Having spent time with him in Moscow and London, I would venture that there is something genuine in his retreat from fashionable society, in his search for silence amid the clumsy clamor of contemporary life. At the same time, he seems to derive a perverse pleasure from the aura of intrigue that surrounds him. A Buddhist ascetic who enjoys some of the worst excesses of consumer society (Cohiba cigars, late-night partying); a semi-recluse who eagerly engages with and chronicles contemporary life; an author who despises the Russian literati yet welcomes the attention of foreign journalists. Even his dark glasses simultaneously deflect and command attention.
When Pelevin and I were sitting in the sushi bar on the Arbat, there was an abrupt, drenching storm. People ran for cover, taking shelter in shop doorways. When the rain ceased, they began to move again, slowly stretching their limbs. "Look at them now," Pelevin said, "they look like mannequins coming to life." To me, they simply looked like wet people who had been standing still for a long time. But Pelevin is the kind of writer who can see anything he wants, and this gift for discovering strangeness in the most ordinary circumstances is there in the phantasmagoric quality of the fiction. If his books are about anything, they're about willed alienation, about the inward freedom of prayer and meditation. "To cope in the old Soviet times many people lived in this state of inner exile," he explains, "particularly if they didn't want to be dissidents and go to prison. They took jobs as, say, janitors and had all the official papers. So they acted in the world, but it was all a pretense. They really lived in a world inside their own heads." If the outer turmoil reaches such a level, he says, "where else can one go?"
As for Victor Pelevin, his own journey appears scarcely to have begun. The writing life stretches before him like a turbulent ocean of discovery, and, like Gogol, whom he sometimes recalls, he is enraptured by the fantastic nature of Russian reality. Unlike his fellow novelists, he will never be content merely to linger on the past, so rich is the fictional potential of the society in which he finds himself. That is, unless he decides to follow the path of Solzhenitsyn, Nabokov and Brodsky into becoming a writer in exile. "My dream," he says, "is always to be on the move. If I had enough money that's how I would live. I would leave Russia and simply keep traveling, keep moving on, never settling anywhere for long. I hate being connected to one place; it blisters the mind."
Yet as Pelevin well knows, Russia is both the inspiration for, and engine of, his fiction; she is his tarnished muse. In permanent exile, you suspect, Pelevin would wither into aimlessness as a writer and begin drifting, like a buoy without its moorings. No, far better to stay, to continue holding up a mirror to a sick society, even if he sometimes dislikes the portrait staring back at him in the glazed mirror of his prose.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Notes from underground; Pelevin at a Moscow metro station. (Photographs by Nikolai Ignatiev)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (64%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (64%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (92%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); MEN (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MEDITATION (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (63%); 

PERSON: VICTOR PELEVIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



557 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3484 words

HEADLINE: The Future Is Now-or Never

BYLINE: By Dan Brekke; Dan Brekke, a freelance writer, was deputy editor of Wired magazine and editor in chief of Wired Digital's daily news service.

 BODY:
Noon, christmas eve, san francisco. in stores on Union Square and on Market Street, registers will ring up sales for another six hours. But in a tower near the western end of the Bay Bridge, in the offices of RedEnvelope, an online gift company that has been up and running for all of 60 days, the holiday is over.
The staff gathers for a toast and sips Champagne from plastic glasses. "Next year it will be crystal," laughs Hilary Billings, the 36-year-old C.E.O. Then everyone clears out. In San Diego, a few agents in the company's customer-care center field the last "Will my stuff make it in time?" calls. In Wilmington, Ohio, the warehouse that has heaved more than 20,000 RedEnvelope packages out the door in the last week is quiet except for a small squad trying to get a final load of parcels out for Christmas Day delivery. 
 RedEnvelope Gifts Online, a showcase for upscale gifts, has gone on to the next selling opportunity, the millennium celebration. The marketing staff is kicking off an expensive Valentine's Day campaign that will feature an un-Net-like paper catalog; the merchandisers are looking ahead to Mother's Day and Father's Day -- and the business staff is revising the 2000 budget for Billings, who knows that the $31 million in venture capital raised in the last six months will take the company only into the summer. RedEnvelope will face a choice: get new investment or go public.
That the company has come this far is kind of amazing. Fashioned from a two-year-old firm called 911Gifts, which catered to anniversary forgetters and other crisis shoppers, RedEnvelope successfully remade itself in less than six months into a top-of-the-line Web retailer. RedEnvelope's sales for its 60-day dash to Christmas easily outstripped everything the company had made in the previous two years.
Of course, the company shelled out about $4 in marketing for every dollar it racked up in gross sales. Still, millions of dollars in merchandise moved: 750 electric full-body-massage mats; 620 Zen tranquillity fountains; 1,400 Japanese body-and-soul bath kits; 1,600 boxes of pistachios and caramels (10 ounces of each for $40); 1,600 amber heart necklaces; 600 antique thermometers; and 1,100 chocolate body-paint kits.
RedEnvelope was one among the hundreds of online retailers that raked in a total of $9 billion during the last two months of 1999. The lesson these companies offer is not so much that there is money to be made online (yet to be proved), but that there are firmly established methods and protocols to get a company running in no time. Web sellers can buy software and services that the first generation of Web entrepreneurs were forced to build themselves. On the operations side, however, a different truth is emerging. Online businesses are increasingly turning to the techniques of old-fashioned merchandising, like high-end service, that were supposed to be left behind in the information age. Success still lies in creating a memorable experience for the customer. E-commerce, it seems, may just be commerce with an extra "e."
RedEnvelope's origins go back to Berkeley. two 1992 graduates of the University of California's Haas School of Business, Scott Galloway and Ian Chaplin, opened a consultancy in San Francisco called Prophet Brand Strategy. After advising companies like Levi Strauss and the Gap about online commerce, they wanted to get into the business themselves.
"We decided that being a consultant was like being a sex therapist who couldn't get a date," Galloway says. "We tried to identify areas in which there were big opportunities. One area we identified was pet products, so we decided we wanted to create the Williams-Sonoma of the pet category." The result was an online store called Aardvark (recently sold to In the Company of Dogs).
The next category they targeted was gifts. The company they founded, 911Gifts, had a weak spot, Galloway concedes: although the service attracted gift givers, recipients simply "didn't love the brand," with its connotations of wailing ambulances. By early 1999, the company was treading water. The site did about $1 million in business in 1998 and had decent demand during holidays. But with two merchants and four customer-service representatives, it was managing to move only 1,000 packages a day, tops. To grow, 911Gifts needed big venture financing.
It also, in Galloway's view, needed to create its own line of products, one that would attract a loyal band of consumers. He called one of his investors, Pat Connolly, a Williams-Sonoma executive vice president. "I said, 'Give me the names of the top six merchandisers in the United States,' "Galloway recalls. "He said: 'Call Hilary. She's the top merchandiser in the country."'
Hilary Billings had worked for Connolly at Williams-Sonoma, joining the kitchen and home furnishings retailer in 1991 and developing its Pottery Barn catalog business. She left in 1996 to work for W Hotels, a new upscale chain. By early 1999, though, she was contemplating a move to online retail and had fixed on gifts.
When Billings looked at 911Gifts before returning Galloway's call, she didn't like the name and wasn't impressed by what she saw. "They were very ordinary products. They weren't well photographed. The site wasn't well designed. It just wasn't inspiring. But what was really great was they allowed you to navigate for any gift by recipient, by occasion, by department -- it was the beginning of an idea." Connolly encouraged her to talk to Galloway. In May she became director of merchandising.
Four months pregnant (and with two young sons), Billings spent her first day on the job putting together a slide show for venture capitalists. On her second day, she began making the rounds of Silicon Valley. Six weeks later, Billings was 911Gifts' C.E.O. Soon the company had the core of a new management team and financing -- $21 million from Sequoia Capital and $10 million from Weston Presidio in exchange for a 30 to 40 percent stake in RedEnvelope.
The company also had a new mission. Instead of selling itself as a center for emergency gifts, RedEnvelope would aim for upscale elegance, an attempt to repeat what Billings accomplished at Pottery Barn. Further, the company would try to broaden the definition of gift-giving opportunities. "Most online retailers are inherently self-purchase," Billings says. They "repurpose themselves just before Christmas as gift companies. There's a big difference between that and being a company that thinks only about gifts."
In contrast to the commodity products that have dominated online commerce -- books, movies, music -- the force driving RedEnvelope and other specialty retailers is margin. The products it sells typically carry markups of 50 percent and higher, a potential offset for lavish spending on customer service, which, in Billings's mind, is unavoidable. "You have to own your customer experience" -- and that comes with a price.
The chief challenge for start-ups is not money -- there's plenty of venture capital to go around right now. The tough thing is to spend it well -- and to make the right decisions. For Billings and Galloway, that started with ditching the name 911Gifts. The staff turned over several possibilities, including "dafina.com." Billings, who grew up in Tanzania while her father worked for USAID, liked that one. "I knew that in Swahili, 'dafina' means an unexpected gift," she says. Before long, however, the suggestion was dropped as "a little too esoteric."
After a brainstorming session in August, Billings and her team, which now included a former Williams-Sonoma vice president, Tom Bazzone, as chief operating officer, settled on an idea from Kristine Dang, 32, the director of merchandising. Dang, whose family left Saigon for the United States the day before North Vietnamese troops entered the city in 1975, told her colleagues about an Asian custom of marking special occasions by giving cash or a message enclosed in a red envelope.
The name had more than a romantic story going for it -- it also suggested a salable method of presenting the gifts: part of the customer experience would be a red gift box with a hand-tied bow.
Of course, RedEnvelope had to come up with gifts to match the name. Somehow, the drugstore back massagers sold by 911Gifts weren't much improved by a nice ribbon. And so Billings went to work upgrading the product line. "What I asked the merchants to do was go through and make sure that their products reflected a high-quality, upscale point of view," Billings says. Their demographic was similar to the one Billings knew from Pottery Barn: high income ($85,000 per year), well-educated professionals, who, surprisingly, were split evenly by sex. Not surprisingly, the focus was on people who already had a history of buying online.
With that target in mind, the company conducted an exercise for the buyers. "We talked about the customer in a very intimate way," Bazzone recalls. "What kind of clothes they wore, what kind of car they drove. We put up a poster with columns labeled 'him' and 'her' and we'd put Post-it notes under each with products we thought they'd want to buy."
911Gifts had been selling about 450 separate products -- SKU's (stock-keeping units) in retail jargon. After a review, about 200 were dropped and another 300 or so were added. RedEnvelope also introduced its first wave of exclusive merchandise: a series of gift baskets and what might be called lifestyle kits.
The product line is built around what Billings and Dang freely say are "guesses" about what's hot -- what appeals at the moment to their upscale target buyer. Last Father's Day, for instance, when the company was still trudging along as 911Gifts, Dang had a hunch about a gift basket for fishing fanatics. "Gift-giving should provoke emotions -- the more experience you can evoke with a gift, the better the gift will be. Fly-fishing is my passion." What came out of that was a fly-fishing basket filled with 12 hand-cut fish-shaped cookies that retailed for $48. It was 911's No. 1 seller for the holiday, and the emotional gift messages buyers submitted showed Dang she had connected with them. "What that allowed me to see was what was hot and why they were buying it."
More people might have bought Dang's gift baskets if 911gifts had had enough cash to build a market identity. But for most of its life, it limped along on seed financing that allowed next to nothing for advertising. RedEnvelope was different. It had cash. Unknown and heading into a season in which established and fledgling e-commerce firms were dumping millions into holiday ad blitzes, the company made a clear decision to devote a third of its money to advertising in order to put its name on the map.
The company considered a TV campaign, which could have been produced more quickly than outdoor and print ads. But the expense was prohibitive, and other media were thought to be more effective in the long run. And so Leagas Delaney, an agency that had worked for high-profile Net firms like Beyond.com and CNET, created a series of print ads for the holiday season. One ad featured a handsome couple in gift-giving ecstasy; running down an envelope flap on the right side were the words "RedEnvelope Gifts Online." The ads appeared on buses, bus shelters, billboards and airport kiosks and in newspapers and magazines that targeted RedEnvelope's demographic. (The company advertised in The New York Times.) RedEnvelope supplemented the campaign with routine plays from the Web commerce manual: e-mail to a list of 125,000 former 911Gifts customers and site visitors who had signed up for sale alerts and Web banner ads.
A crucial piece of RedEnvelope's Christmas strategy was based on partnerships with online hubs (America Online, the Microsoft Network), Web portals (Yahoo, Excite, Go.com and Lycos) and a select group of more narrowly focused sites -- women's sites like iVillage.com and Women.com and occasion-oriented sites like those devoted to weddings and newborns. The company devoted $2 million to these alliances -- paid for through either a flat fee or one based on sales -- for a simple reason: "To be where people are shopping online means being on the portals," says Peter Baltaxe, RedEnvelope's senior vice president for business development.
"When things were fast and loose on the Net, your knowledge of the economics, of the subtleties, if you knew who to talk to, could make a big difference," Baltaxe adds. "That's changed with AOL. They've become a deal machine. To a certain extent they've had to because now they have 300 e-commerce partners." Not that they're complaining. An e-commerce relationship with AOL starts at seven figures, a price that merchants swallow hard and pay because being exposed to even a small fraction of the service's 22 million subscribers could be a boon.
The arrangement with Web portals is different. Merchants don't have to pay nearly as much to get into them -- RedEnvelope pays Yahoo five figures for a three-month slot -- but Baltaxe says they have to battle to build a relationship with the customers there. "What the portals try to do is figure out 'how do we add value to shopping,"' Baltaxe says. One way they do that is by aggregation, bunching stores at one spot and by encouraging customers to shop merchandise rather than merchants.
In October, ads were ready to roll out, business partnerships were in place and hiring was well under way, hastened along by the lure of stock options for all permanent employees. In the San Francisco office, the staff of buyers had grown to 13 from 2, part of an overall increase to 60 from 15 by the end of the year. The acquisition of staff -- following a pattern common to Web start-ups -- was facilitated by assiduous use of headhunters for the top jobs and Web job boards like the San Francisco-based Craig's List for staff slots. New software was running everything -- from tracking orders and customer-care calls to managing inventory. And supplies had arrived: red envelopes and cream-colored gift cards, glossy cardboard gift boxes and matching red wrapping paper, miles of ivory-colored polyester ribbon, bales of periwinkle blue tissue. On Oct. 25, the RedEnvelope name was formally announced and its site went live. First day sales: 110 orders, a little more than $5,000.
RedEnvelope owns its inventory, merchandising, marketing, systems management and customer service. What it doesn't own, despite its best efforts, is fulfillment: physical handling of products and order filling. Lack of time and money meant that Billings and Bazzone weren't able to do what Jeff Bezos did for Amazon.com over the past two years, which was to plow cash into building a network of warehouses. Instead, the company had to find a partner to provide a fulfillment operation -- a warehouse and everything that goes with it, including the workers expected to produce scads of smartly wrapped gifts for Christmas.
911Gifts had farmed out a portion of its order-filling to ComAlliance, a fulfillment firm in Wilmington, Ohio, about 50 miles northeast of Cincinnati. And so when Bazzone was looking for someone to help tackle the Christmas season, he went to Ohio. Conveniently, a big tenant at the ComAlliance facility was vacating its space. Bazzone grabbed it, 32,000 square feet with a one-year lease in the low six figures. With ComAlliance, he designed a workspace -- wrapping tables, conveyors, inventory racks -- that he hoped could handle a holiday siege.
The company, in the midst of changing its name to 3PF.com (for third-party fulfillment), had other allures. In e-commerce terms (read: less than two years) it had experience in providing services to online retailers that couldn't afford or didn't want to be saddled with the job of handling inventory and shipping it. More important, the ComAlliance warehouse lies at the edge of an Airborne Express runway. Consequently, overnight merchandise that leaves the warehouse by 2 a.m. can be in the air by 4:30 and to its destination by noon. The setup allowed RedEnvelope to make a promise that was at the core of its brand-building efforts: Christmas Eve delivery of gifts ordered by midnight Eastern Standard Time on the 23rd.
By early December, sales were doubling every week. Bazzone had been deployed to the warehouse to inspect every package before it went out. In San Diego, two dozen agents were handling phone calls from customers. In San Francisco, Billings convened RedEnvelope's managers for a meeting to focus on which products should be displayed on the home page in the stretch before Christmas.
The offerings had to be balanced in several ways. The page had to include something upscale, a luxury item with gross sales potential. And something for kids. And something relatively inexpensive, because the site didn't want to scare anyone away. And merchandise that was not in short supply. And products that would appeal to men and women.
"Dec. 15," Dang said. "We'll have spa in a box" -- a gift basket in the relaxation category that sells for $190. Women's stuff. "And Vivitar binoculars" -- something for men, also pricey -- and the holiday celebrations basket -- a $75 collection of edible treats." A brief silence hung before Billings said, "There's nothing for kids here." Dang swapped the binoculars for a chess set.
One way a Web site differs from a paper catalog is that it gives a store the ability to track what's selling and then to reformulate the mix of featured merchandise at will. Dang had a planned lineup, but she also had continuous feedback from customers about what highlighted items they were responding to. So the following week when the big wave of buying broke over the site, she was checking sales every hour, and she was ruthless about replacing featured products that weren't bringing in dollars fast enough.
At one point she noticed that a line of wines was not selling as briskly as expected. "It had moved only six units in an hour," she said. "I got it out of there and replaced it with the Zen fountain," which sold reliably at a rate of one every five minutes.
As RedEnvelope shut Christmas down and got set for Valentine's Day, Billings told her staff they had created "an incredible story." But what did the company accomplish beyond riding out a blizzard of orders and slamming millions of dollars of merchandise through the nation's delivery network? A crude report card shows that the season was more exhilarating than perfect.
On the plus side, RedEnvelope demonstrated that once it drove people to its site, they bought something. Billings says 5.8 percent of those who visited RedEnvelope online made purchases. That compares with an industry conversion rate of about 2 percent. The company's Web ads also worked. According to Nielsen NetRatings, an online traffic analysis service, in one week in December, 17.4 percent of those who saw RedEnvelope's animated banner clicked on it; the typical click-through rate on Web banners hovers around 2 percent.
Most important, the company did what it promised customers it would do. Though botched deliveries were not unheard-of, Bazzone says RedEnvelope filled 98 percent of its orders accurately and shipped 99 percent of its packages on time. By early January, only 2 percent of recipients wanted to return gifts (in contrast to an 8 percent average for the online industry).
The minus side is not so clear-cut. The transition from 911Gifts to
RedEnvelope was slow and, Billings concedes, baffling to those outside the company. "We spent the better part of October and November confusing the hell out of our 911 customers," she says.
The performance of RedEnvelope's online partnerships was also mixed. The heavy expenditure to get into AOL's commerce area and make RedEnvelope a keyword for subscribers brought steady but unspectacular sales. On the other hand, a $15,000 investment to set up a presence on Yahoo was a boon, bringing in 600 orders on its best days.
More important than the report card is the e-commerce evolution that RedEnvelope symbolizes. Kristine Dang recalls that when she started with 911Gifts in early 1998, the presence of a product buyer at an e-commerce firm was a novelty. "A lot of companies started with no merchants, just a lot of really smart engineers or people with M.B.A.'s in marketing."
That has changed. Merchandisers like Billings and Bazzone and the old retailing values they live by -- above all else, to your own customer be true -- are ascendant. To see the change, you need look no further than Valentine's Day, for which RedEnvelope is planning to blur the border between electronic and traditional retail by distributing a catalog and encouraging phone and fax orders. Though the company has no immediate plans to make a profit, it is planning, for next Christmas, to open a real store.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Improving the site line Hilary Billings, the C.E.O. of RedEnvelope. (Todd Hido for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (92%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REDENVELOPE INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUDGETS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); MILLENNIUM (52%); THERMAL SENSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCOTT GALLOWAY (75%); HILARY BILLINGS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



558 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 7; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 1-23-00;
Fauxhemian Rhapsody

BYLINE: By Rob Walker; Rob Walker is a journalist living in New Orleans.

 BODY:
Pastis, the Parisian-style bistro that recently opened in New York's meatpacking district, is a restaurant with an idea. The menu is unpretentious, "simple," the owner has explained, and "there will be no reservations." The airy, lived-in design suggests a neighborhood place you stroll to, order coffee, grab a newspaper from the rack up front and kill a few hours thinking about the tragedy of Rimbaud.
Of course, if you should try to eat at Pastis you'll see that all of this is ridiculous. The matre d' looks like a model; those mirrors aren't old, they've been "distressed"; and actually the owner made his explanations in Vanity Fair. So after an hour wait (off-peak, that is), you'll be seated next to an earnest-looking 20-something in a tattered dress who maybe could pass for a struggling artist, except that's really a $400 house frock from Mayle she's wearing, and she's not reaching for her sketchpad but for her Nokia 8800. Look around the room: yet another place that's packed with fauxhemians. 
 Being bohemian -- or counterculture, or alternative or whatever you want to call it -- used to be all about dichotomy: you chose one life at the expense of another. Opt out of corporate life to run a literary magazine, and you had to live in a fifth-floor walkup, shop in thrift stores, drive an old VW bug and eat at hole-in-the-wall cafes. On the other hand, you got to cling to your unsullied ideals and aesthetic sense. For many, the bohemian life was just a youthful phase. You could have your freedom for so long, then you had to go work for the Man. Now, of course, it's difficult to find an actual bohemian, yet boho trappings that vaguely suggest counterculture taste are everywhere, because the fauxhemian idea is that you don't have to choose anymore. You can be mainstream and alternative, a grown-up and a hipster, all at the same time.
Conspicuous consumption no longer cancels out the idealistic self-image. The revamped Volkswagen Beetle -- which is all about flashy design, not economic practicality like the ancestor it's calculated to remind you of -- is a good example, and so is a Classic Parisian Flea-Market Club Chair from Mitchell Gold as advertised in fine shelter magazines. Miramax, an "indie" film company whose marketing department sprays an intellectual mist onto its usually middlebrow product, is a fauxhemian juggernaut. Janeane Garofalo, who stars opposite Uma Thurman or Sylvester Stallone part of the time and rolls her eyes about mainstream Hollywood the rest of the time, is our fauxhemian It Girl. And Apple Computer's C.E.O., Steve Jobs, a centimillionaire in bluejeans and a black mock turtleneck, embodies the look and feel of fauxhemian chic.
La vie fauxh<heart>me is a peculiar artifact of the bust-to-boom 1990's. The decade started on a slackerish note, as a generation of Americans was informed it would probably be the first not to match its parents' income. Since the Man was laying everybody off, why not grow a goatee, chase those dreams and forget about growing up and making money? Of course, the intervening years played out differently. Real money has found its way to younger and younger people, crashing directly into the postundergrad secondhand-shop lifestyle.
What's more, a lot of that money has gone to people who never bothered to pay their dues by groveling before 80's-style Master of the Universe bosses. The cultural equivalent of dropping out to write poetry became dropping out to write Linux code -- the open-source, anticapitalist computer-operating system -- though plenty of people are making real money even off that.
A result is that corporate America has not only stopped trying to homogenize its new recruits, it is also practically begging college dropouts with nose rings to explain what the hell is going on out there. And gradually that old dichotomy has fallen away. What if you could just, you know, telecommute for the Man? Or maybe do a little consulting gig, only this one time? Or let's say the Man wants to put a million dollars of seed capital behind some side project you've been working on in your dorm -- or help your nascent literary Webzine go public.
Still, as this generation unlearned its expectations of failure, it never unlearned its love of bohemianism; it just reconfigured bohemianism to accommodate a grown-up income. It's one of the few traits it shares with its parents' generation: a widespread reluctance to grow up all the way. Whatever his or her age, the fauxhemian is not one of those stick-in-the-mud, conventional, middle-class grown-ups.
So it's critical at least to pretend to keep any middle-class definition of success at arm's length: it's O.K. to like the theory of a Parisian bistro or the practice of a boutique eatery like Pastis; eating at a strip-mall chain called Pastis Too!, however, would be unacceptable.
And obviously when you have enough people thinking this way -- when most people think they are more unconventional than most other people -- then being unconventional doesn't have much meaning anymore. So it is that Urban Outfitters, to take one example, was penalized by the market recently because it stocked a spate of "overly mainstream merchandise," as The Wall Street Journal put it. And while financially successful people flatter themselves by dressing up as bohemians, a working-class store like Sears seeks to boost itself not by offering up images of a well-appointed family home, but by changing its slogan to "The Good Life," as though it were some exclusive realm of luxury.
Which brings us back to Pastis and its "simple" democracy. In practice, as it turns out, reservations are accepted -- just not at peak hours. The restaurant has already played host to a number of parties for members of the media elite, and nobody expected them to hang around the bar waiting for a table for 40 to open up.
But that's the point, isn't it? Exclusivity and elegance aren't cool, but exclusivity dressed up in the artfully tattered guise of the downscale and democratic / that's the coolest thing of all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Jessica Craig Martin)
 
Chart: "LA VIE BOHEME: THE EARLY YEARS"
 
"In New York, as in Paris, the cafe is the poor man's club. It is also a rendezvous for newspapermen, musicians, artists, bohemians generally. . . . It is the best stamping ground for men of talent. Ideas circulate. Brain tilts with brain. Eccentricity must show cause or be jostled." -the art critic James Huneker, 1920. From "American Moderns: Bohemian New York and the Creation of a New Century," by Christine Stansell, to be published in April by Metropolitan Books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (51%); VW (SWX) (51%); VOW (FRA) (51%); VOA (PAR) (51%); VKW (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (51%); PASTIS TOO (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: PASTIS TOO (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (69%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); 

PERSON: CRAIG L MARTIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



559 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: East Hampton Plan: Leave the Beach Alone

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
PLOTTING a measured retreat from further development of its shorelines, the Town of East Hampton is considering severe restrictions on seawalls and other shoreline erosion control structures that it says imperil public beaches, dunes and bluffs.
The proposal, which would become the major erosion control component of the town's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program, cites global warming, rising sea level and storm damage as reasons why development in coastal areas should be barred from pressing too near the water. 
 But in an underpinning that has broad support among environmentalists and many coastal experts, it also finds that individual erosion control efforts by property owners as well as larger, publicly financed projects can disrupt the natural drift of sand along the shores, obliterate public beaches and strip the shoreline of its natural ability to rebuild itself.
The proposal is the culmination of 10 years of study of coastal erosion in the town, where beaches, shoreline development and wealthy second-home owners are essential to the local economy.
If it is enacted, the new town law would be among the most far-reaching responses to coastal erosion undertaken by any of the Island's 13 towns, and a possible model for other municipalities on Long Island and beyond. The Village of Quogue, which is in the Town of Southampton, has also restricted shoreline hardening. Some states, including North Carolina, have banned seawalls.
While the East Hampton erosion plan would allow property owners to maintain beach armoring in most areas where it already exists -- predominantly on the northern or bay side of the town -- it would prohibit its spread along the town's ocean shores and on bay shores that currently have little or no armoring.
The new coastal erosion regime would also shift authority for issuing permits for repairing or building armoring from the state to the town, which would be guided by its own erosion plan. The plan would create four zones ranging from an oceanfront zone where hardening would be strictly forbidden to a bayside zone where owners would be allowed to maintain existing shore armoring.
In a concession some regard as critical, property owners whose houses or land were in imminent peril of being swept away unless they erected or repaired sea walls or other protections would be able to apply for variances.
Some supporters of the plan said the loophole made the plan viable by assuring that it would not result in a taking of private land without compensation, a red flag for judges who might hear challenges to the plan. Robert S. DeLuca, president of the Group for the South Fork in Bridgehampton, said the taking issue could not arise as long as owners had recourse to variances.
"Simply not getting exactly what you want is unlikely to be construed as a taking of your land," he said. "What's important is that this proposal fundamentally changes the approach to coastal management from coastal fortification to coastal retreat. It tells property owners it's best and easiest to move development back from the shoreline rather than to fortify."
But critics said variances would only be available after owners had suffered possibly irreversible erosion damage. They said the proposal would lead to a rout for owners who built where the town had allowed them to.
"This purports to be a shoreline preservation law when in fact it is a shoreline destruction law," said Aram V. Terchunian, a coastal geologist often employed by property owners and the president of First Coastal Corporation, an environmental consulting firm in Westhampton Beach.
"The bluffs would be consumed, the dunes would be consumed, and the variance part undoes the whole law," Mr. Terchunian said. "They say in an extreme situation where you have placed your house as far inland as possible and erosion continues, only at that point would they let you put up a seawall. That's pretty extreme. Your house has to be about to fall in."
Mr. Terchunian said the proposal erred in concentrating on coastal structures parallel to the shore. "Every responsible coastal geologist will tell you the primary causes of erosion in East Hampton are the inlets, and they are shore-perpendicular," he said.
He said that sand trapped by the inlets, when dredged, was frequently not returned to the beaches but instead placed in upland areas, depriving the shoreline of the sand. "Proper sand management is what is needed," he said. "Instead, the town is gong to place a tremendous burden on hundreds of property owners."
Gerard Stoddard, a spokesman for coastal property owners and the president of the Fire Island Association, said he saw limits in local initiatives like East Hampton's. "What is needed," he said, "is a long-term coastal policy on a system-wide basis that provides the sand and the beaches needed to provide this protection."
But even the future of the East Hampton measure is unclear. Richard E. Whalen, a deputy town attorney, said it was difficult to predict when the town board would vote on the measure, which would amend local zoning. "I don't know where this law is going to go," he said. "I'm not sure we'll see it any time in the near future."
Part of the uncertainty followed the defeat in November of the incumbent town supervisor, Catherine Lester, a Democrat who supported the proposal. The town's newly elected Republican supervisor, Jay Schneiderman, has agreed with the premise of the proposal and has said that shoreline protection will be a goal of his administration. But he said the needs of shorefront homeowners and businesses must also be considered.
Another uncertainty involves the town's decision not to do an environmental impact statement on the possible effects of the proposal, which courts could construe as an omission.
Other problems could occur if the Town of Southampton, which is currently compiling an environmental study of its ocean shores, concludes that the East Hampton plan could have impacts on Southampton. The littoral drift, or prevailing movement of sand, is from east to west on ocean beaches on Long Island.
Since the colonial era, East Hampton has opened coastal areas and resources to all town residents. Most beaches are owned by the town trustees under colonial patents.
A narrative accompanying the proposal said that coastal development in the past "often failed to take into account potential damage from flooding, erosion, and coastal storms."
"Following major storms, homeowners recognizing their precarious predicament built so-called erosion protection structures to protect their property," it said. "However, groins, bulkheads and other hard structures have had detrimental effects on adjoining beaches or neighboring property and have often aggravated the erosion problems that they were designed to prevent."
Their legacy, the narrative said, was "a disappearance of sandy beaches in many locations, a significant loss for a town whose way of life and resort economy depend on public access to unspoiled beaches."
Larry Penny, the East Hampton Town Director of Natural Resources, said that erosion problems were growing worse in many areas of town. "Erosion is speeding up," he said. "We are not Holland, but it it's hard to know what to do. Obviously when you put in hardened structures in one spot, the spot next door takes a beating. So the next person puts up a structure and then you have a domino effect."
"On the other hand," he said, "sometimes it's impractical for people to move their houses back or bring in sand and pile it in front. So it is a conundrum."
Mr. Penny said that town surveys using aerial photographs and maps showed ocean shore recession from Montauk Point to the Village of Montauk averaged two feet a year. He said Gardiners Island, the largest privately owned island on the East Coast, appeared to be shrinking by up to 2.5 feet a year.
Mr. Penny said a generally accepted figure for sea level rise over the past 100 years was six to eight inches. An international debate among scientists and governments continues over whether global warming is occurring and will accelerate sea-level rise.
Jay Tanski, a coastal geologist for the New York Sea Grant Program, said it was difficult to take the long-term effects of rising sea level into account when making coastal erosion policies.
"Sea level has been rising and it appears it will maintain that trend or even increase because of global warming," Mr. Tanski said. But to say that therefore no steps should be taken to combat coastal erosion would be "like saying we should not go to doctors because we are all going to die sometime," he said.
Mr. Tanski said he opposed an outright ban on any approach to coastal erosion control. "It's not the best way because you eliminate approaches you might want to use in certain circumstances," he said. "What you want to do is look on a site-by-site, case-by-case basis and then make your best decision on the best approach."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: East Hampton proposes to restrict seawalls and other structures like this one at Culloden Point in Montauk. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COASTAL AREAS (94%); EROSION (93%); BEACHES (91%); EROSION CONTROL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); 

PERSON: ARAM V TERCHUNIAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



560 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2098 words

HEADLINE: A Charter School Sets Its Course

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP

 BODY:
JUST like the biblical Nehemiah, who left a secure position to do the job of rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem, our job is to rebuild the minds of our young people," said Theresa Sanders, president of the Urban League of Long Island. "We wanted to make sure the name of our school reflected the job."
If its proposal wins state approval next week, the Urban League-sponsored Nehemiah School will be on its way to becoming one of two Long Island examples of the charter school, an educational innovation sweeping the country. 
 Charter schools are intended to compete with regular public schools for students and the tax dollars spent to educate them. Supporters of the concept say the competition is healthy and results in better schools.
But if it is up to community leaders, educators and many residents of Central Islip and Brentwood -- the two districts from which the Nehemiah charter school would be expected to draw most of its students -- there will be no charter school in their community.
At a public hearing convened this month by opponents of the charter school, more than 1,500 people -- a huge turnout for a civic forum -- crowded into the auditorium at Central Islip High School to express concerns that the charter school would drain money from local school districts, cause tax increases and reduce racial diversity, all for a program that might not improve student performance.
"My issue is not with charter schools as a concept," said the Central Islip superintendent of schools, Howard Koenig. "But the New York State charter law is fatally flawed in the way it funds charter schools. It hurts, not helps, the community in which it opens."
It's not as if the performance of the Central Islip and Brentwood schools were impeccable. Statewide school report cards released this month showed that in Central Islip only 66 percent of the students passed the English Regents exam, which is required to graduate from high school. In Brentwood, the percentage of passing students was 87. The statewide average was 93 percent.
But opponents of the charter school argue that the public schools' poor performance should dictate an increase of investment in them, not a cutback.
"If the Urban League wants to start a school, let them do it with their own funds," said John Rosado, father of two high school students in Central Islip and the first vice president of Adelante, a Hispanic civic group. "We should be working together, not competing, to improve the education in this community and to help our kids."
Since charter schools are officially public schools, they receive public education aid. For every student it enrolls, a charter school receives the equivalent of one per-student expenditure from the public school district in which the student resides.
Proponents of charter schools say that when money follows the students, there should be no additional financial burden for school districts and no impact on property taxes.
But opponents of the Nehemiah Charter School argue that this argument ignores economies of scale. Dr. Koenig calculated that, assuming that about half of the 230-student initial enrollment at Nehemiah comes from the Central Islip school district, the district will have to give $1,427,500 to the charter school in the next year.
"By its fifth year, with a projected enrollment of 1,267 students, we will lose more than 600 students and about $8,394,700," he said. "Home districts are also responsible for paying for expenses that include transportation, textbooks, computer hardware and software and library materials. We estimate that our taxpayers will have to come up with an additional $140 per household next year, and by year five, they will have to pay an extra $830, in addition to what they already pay to support the public school district.
"Either we'll have to come up with resources to replace the money that goes to the charter school, or we'll have to cut programs for our kids," he said. "We may have to eliminate extra labs for remediation, or cut our high school alternative school, or our elementary programs for students who did not perform well on standardized tests. Who knows how deep we'll have to go?"
Les Black, the school superintendent in Brentwood, estimated that the charter school will cost his district $1 million next year..
"By losing students, we won't save any money," he said, "because those leaving will be distributed among our 10 elementary schools, and in the final analysis, we won't be able to save even one teaching position."
Such concerns seem to have done little to slow the rapid rise of charter schools nationwide. According to the National Education Association, the number of charter schools has gone from zero to about 1,800 in eight years. The Washington-based Center for Education Reform says 350,000 students will be enrolled in charter schools this year. The Department of Education says 70 percent of charter schools have waiting lists.Since the first charter school opened in 1992, only about 3 percent of all charter schools have closed.
In 1998, New York became the 34th state (of a current 37) to provide for the establishment of publicly financed, tuition-free schools that operate independently of existing school districts. In New York, charter schools are free from most educational mandates that control teaching methodologies in regular public schools, but are held accountable on the basis of student achievement tests, including the state Regents exams. Charter schools enroll any students who wish to attend, using a lottery to select students if the school is oversubscribed.
The schools have boards of trustees and are driven by a mission statement. Charter schools that fail to meet their stated goals can be closed.
Under the New York Charter Schools Act, the State University of New York can grant up to 50 charters. Eight applications were approved last year, and three schools that received charters opened in the fall. Five others, including one in Roosevelt, have received preliminary approval to open this September.
The Nehemiah Charter School is one of 17 applications remaining from a statewide total of 90 originally submitted to SUNY's Charter Schools Institute. Discounting an application from the Child Development Center of the Hamptons, which is considered a special case because it handles only developmentally disabled students, the Nehemiah effort is the only suburban application still under consideration.
By the end of January, the SUNY panel is required to announce which, if any, of the applications it recommends for approval. If it is among the winners, and barring a reversal by the state Board of Regents, the Nehemiah Charter School could open as soon as September with 230 students in kindergarten through second grade, and plans to expand over the next five years to more than 1,200 students in kindergarten through 12th grade.
For the Urban League of Long Island, applying to start a charter school was a natural progression of its goals to provide education, training and employment opportunities for the disadvantaged, Ms. Sanders said. The Urban League had proposed to buy land from New York Institute of Technology in Central Islip, but N.Y.I.T. recently declined the offer, she said, leaving the Urban League to look for other possible spaces in the Town of Islip.
If approved, the Nehemiah Charter School will be managed by Edison Schools, a private company based in New York City that now manages 79 schools across the country.
Betty Davis, vice president for Eastern development for Edison Schools, said that the company, which opened its first school in 1992, had developed a base curriculum that is modified to reflect the specific community.
The plans for the Nehemiah Charter School include a school year of 200 instructional days (compared with 180 for a regular public school) and an eight-hour school day (an hour or so longer than in a regular public school).
"Our goal is to have our students finish by the end of 10th grade what typically takes 12 years," Ms. Sanders said, "allowing two years, in 11th and 12th grades, for our kids to focus on college preparation."
Two of the charter school's main objectives, she said, are holding teachers accountable for student performance and enforcing parent involvement. Instead of traditional report cards, teachers, students and parents would sign "learning contracts" stipulating academic goals that must be met. "If a student does not meet those goals," Dr. Davis said, "the child, parent and teacher meet to re-evaluate the contract, decide whether those goals were realistic, and develop a new one that will guarantee the success of the student."
The Nehemiah school is also planning to provide a laptop computer for every student.
The program seems to have some appeal in the community. Although the Urban League has not yet been able formally to recruit for enrollment, Ms. Sanders said that 400 people have already expressed interest in the charter school.
Marian Jones, a Central Islip resident, said she wanted the best possible education for her 7-year-old son and would enroll him at Nehemiah if she got the chance.
"If I could afford to send him to private school, I would," Ms. Jones said. "But a charter school seems like a good alternative because it offers smaller classes and more individual instruction."
Marianne Temple, a Brentwood mother of two, is also interested in sending her two children, ages 4 and 6, to Nehemiah.
"I'm not happy with what I see in the public school district and I don't want my kids going to those schools," Ms. Temple said. "A charter school seems to offer more innovative teaching methods and allows every child to learn at his own pace."
But opponents of the school fear that the charter school is making promises it may be unable to keep.
"The Nehemiah Charter School doesn't yet exist," said Mr. Black, the Brentwood superintendent. "Therefore, parents are going to sign their children up based on what it promises them. But in many charter schools throughout the country, the track record of promises like smaller class size and creative teaching methods is questionable."
Robert Lupinskie, vice president of the Nassau-Suffolk School Boards Association, said that in studies, "To date, nothing has established any improvement of outcomes or student achievement from charter schools."
Amy Stuart Wells, a professor at University of California, has been conducting a national study on charter schools, with results expected to be released this fall, she said.
"Up to now there has been no consistent evidence of any gains in test scores at charter schools," Dr. Wells said. "In some individual schools, scores have gone up, while in other they have gone down. There is no definitive trend in either direction, and right now, it's too early to tell."
One of the concerns in Islip is the negative impact on diversity.
In Central Islip, the ethnic breakdown is now one-third African-American, one-third Hispanic and one-third white, said Richard Ianuzzi, president of the Central Islip Teachers Association.
"One of the strengths of this school district is diversity," he said. "Since the Urban League is the lead applicant for the charter school, it will draw most of the students from its parent network, and we will end up having a segregated black school in an integrated area."
While a charter school is supposed to reflect -- racially and economically -- the school district in which it is located, research is beginning to show that many charter schools are enrolling homogeneous student bodies, according to a report from the National Education Association. Several studies have pointed to more segregation of students in charter schools, based on race, socioeconomic status and academic achievement.
Both the Islip chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. and Adelante of Suffolk County, which serves the Hispanic community, oppose the charter school.
Yvonne Patterson Quirk, president of the Islip N.A.A.C.P., said: "Removing students from public schools tends to divide the community. Then if the school should fail, what happens to those kids? The public schools will have to scramble to reassign them to classrooms, and that will cause more confusion and dissension than anything else."
Mr. Rosado of Adelante agreed. "This is a high-tax, low-wealth community, in which many parents are working two jobs to pay their taxes and improve their community," he said. "By siphoning money away from public education, it will only hurt our programs, and ultimately, our kids."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: It would be almost a decent turnout for the Islanders these days, but for a meeting devoted to a local education issue the crowd was huge -- 1,500 people packed into the auditorium of Central Islip High School on Jan. 12. The object of their interest: a charter school proposed for the area. (Dan Miller Photography via New York Teacher)(pg. 1); Parents and teachers arriving at Central Islip High School to discuss a charter school proposed for the area.; Information is passed out at a public meeting over a charter school proposal for the Central Islip area. The proposal is facing opposition. (Dan Miller Photography via New York Teacher)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEHEMIAH SCHOOL (62%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



561 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 10; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Clock Factory Site Is Under Debate

BYLINE: By ALBERTA EISEMAN

 BODY:
FOR more than a century, the New Haven Clock Company was one of the city's leading manufacturers, producing clocks and watches that were sold around the country and the world.
At the peak of its success, in the late 1930's, the business, founded by Chauncey Jerome and later run by his nephew Hiram Camp, occupied two city blocks on Hamilton Street, in the part of New Haven known as the New Township -- a historic industrial community near Wooster Square. More than 1,500 men and women worked in the massive red brick buildings, making 3 million timepieces a year and putting the name of New Haven on the mantles and into the pockets of countless people. 
 But after World War II -- years during which the company produced timing devices for military use -- the transition to civilian pursuits proved unsuccessful. Debt mounted, and by 1959 the New Haven Clock Company had gone out of business. Then, the construction of Interstate 91 led to the loss of more than a dozen of the plant's buildings. The surviving block of 14 buildings changed hands from one owner to another.
Today, the complex is nearly empty, a small motor repair shop and a strip club the only tenants, and its future is clouded by controversy over whether all of the remaining structures should be spared or some be razed to allow a neighboring business to expand.
Adjacent to the factory on the north side is Palmieri Food Products, a fourth generation New Haven business that wants to build a parking lot and a 30,000-square-foot addition to their spaghetti sauce factory -- a project that would require demolition of 10 of the 14 clock company buildings and part of the courtyard. The city has already been awarded federal grants and loans for the Palmieri development. Palmieri has said its project would save 25 jobs and create 20 more if allowed to go through with the project.
But opposition remains.
"The remaining block, neglected but basically sound, is one of the few surviving examples of a 19th century industrial square," said Edward M. Franquemont, executive director of the 350-member New Haven Preservation Trust. "It's complete with arched opening into an interior courtyard surrounded on all sides by imposing multi-story industrial buildings -- it's as close to a castle as we have in the United States."
Despite the obvious lack of maintenance, the broken windows and cracked paving, the spacious courtyard still evokes a faded grandeur. "Pat Palmieri is a very innovative businessman," said Mr. Franquemont. "They are a historic business in New Haven and a wonderful family, and any solution we reach is going to have to satisfy their needs, as well as the needs of the city to get the building back in service and pay its back taxes and of the owners, to protect their investment.
"But we think that there are many other options to demolition and the interest shown by outside developers supports our theory," he said, referring to a New York City developer who has been in frequent touch with him in recent weeks.
"The citizens of New Haven need to win here, too," Mr. Franquemont continued. "They need to maintain a connection with the industrial past that made New Haven what it is."
In the city's Office of Business Development, Helen Rosenberg, the business services officer who has coordinated the 3 1/2-year effort to make use of the property, expressed doubt about any alternative to razing at least some of the structures.
"These buildings have been an albatross around the owners' neck," she said, referring to the Yagovine family who have owned the property since 1980.
At first there were a number of tenants such as clothing dress manufacturers, a stained glass studio and a storage company, but gradually they moved out, leaving only two tenants in the vast empty space. When the opportunity to sell to Palmieri Food Products came along, the owners agreed to sacrificing 10 of the buildings, retaining for retail use the original 1843 structure, which was remodeled in the 1850's, and three adjoining ones erected during the second half of the 19th century.
"The city has taken steps to try to find redevelopers, the owners tried to market the complex, but there has been no interest shown," Ms. Rosenberg said. "If the New Haven Preservation Trust really could find a dynamic developer who would fix up the buildings, we would love to work with them. But there have to be time constraints, we can't just wait forever."
Mr. Palmieri said he simply needs more space for his business. "My business is growing," he said. "We ship our sauce from North Florida to Maine, up and down the East coast. What do I tell my customers? If I can't perform for them, they will find someone else. Right now, I have five tractor trailers in the parking lot that we use for storage because we don't have enough room."
"The city told me they want to help me," he continued, "and I'm sure they are trying to help. I'm being patient, but my new addition was supposed to be up last November. And as for the clock company building, even if it were fixed up it's still bad space: the ceilings are too low, there are too many columns and it's unsafe, a fire hazard. And I'm not against historic preservation."
A year and a half ago, Mr. Palmieri said he bought the old New Haven yacht club "and I've been renovating it ever since, preserving a piece of New Haven."
Late last fall, the city was awarded about $1.5 million in federal grants and loan guarantees to redevelop the clock company site: a $490,000 Brownfields Economic Development Initiative Grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, contingent on approval by H.U.D. of an application for a $1 million Section 108 loan guarantee for the project. That money would cover the cost of environmental remediation, demolition, site preparation and construction of the Palmieri addition.
The announcement of those grants was greeted with cheers by local officials while the city's preservation groups voiced their concerns at a hearing held by the Board of Aldermen as part of the process of approving receipt of the grant. The city has agreed to postpone consideration of acceptance of the grant funds.
"We didn't want to look as if we were pushing the preservation community," Ms. Rosenberg said referring to the time it needed to find a developer that would preserve the historical significance of the site.
The clock factory complex is listed in the state's Historic Architecture and Engineering Record and is eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, but does not have that designation yet. Because federal money would be used to raze the buildings, any demolition would have to be reviewed by the State Historic Preservation Office and by the president's Advisory Council in Washington. As matters now stand, the application for the loan is being reviewed by the regional HUD office in Hartford, and will be sent to the HUD office in Washington for its review within the next few weeks.
"Perhaps a compromise will be reached," Ms. Rosenberg said, "otherwise HUD will either decide to accept the project as proposed and grant the funds or not grant the funds."
Mr. Franquemont said he understands that a city continually reinvents itself. "We don't ask that there never be any demolition in a city," Mr. Franquemont said. "What we ask is that nothing be lost by accident, without a real sense of what we are losing for what we are gaining, and that we have a vigorous debate about this part of our heritage."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward Franquemont is among those trying to preserve the New Haven Clock factory site. Left and bottom: The site today with empty buildings and abandoned cars. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 
Drawing: The factory in 1914. (New Haven Historical Society, circa 1914)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW HAVEN CLOCK CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); 

PERSON: PAT PALMIERI (90%); EDWARD M FRANQUEMONT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



562 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: 'CRADLE WILL ROCK';
A Different World

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Walter Goodman's characterization of the time in which "Cradle Will Rock" took place is mellower than the world I saw when I joined Orson Welles's Mercury Theater, which he and John Houseman formed immediately after the events covered in the film. 
 Mr. Goodman rather sniffily dismisses the film on the grounds that its point of view "suffers from its own class-struggle theme, as working stiffs and artists without money are set against millionaire bosses and their fascist consorts." It is always difficult to convey the context in which historical events took place; to give today's audience a sense of the mental baggage that the people of another time brought to those events. But to impeach the characters of Larry Foreman and Mr. Mister as cliches is to confess ignorance of the matrix in which the original play was produced.
Mr. Goodman forgets -- and apparently doesn't want us reminded -- that at that time there were places in America where more than a class struggle was going on: certainly the miners of "Bloody Harlan County" would have called it by a harsher name, as would those who survived the machine-gun fire on the Ford picket line, where 17 men were shot down for daring to ask that their union be recognized.
In that same New York City which Mr. Goodman seems to see with revisionary eyes, female pickets were sometimes herded together by mounted police in order to be clubbed more easily. Many of the people who made up our audiences at the Mercury Theater often came to us straight from such picket lines, and stayed after the curtain to buy ambulances for those fighting Franco in Spain. (Mr. Goodman rather loftily dismisses this kind of activity with "protesters of all sorts in a period when protest was a leisure-time industry.")
In order to set up his tribute to Hallie Flanagan (a tribute with which I wholeheartedly agree), Mr. Goodman has found it necessary to denigrate some of the very people hired by Mrs. Flanagan's Federal Theater, when he tells us that "its mandate was to give jobs to unemployed actors, stagehands and other theater folk. That meant that . . . some of those who got jobs were not of the first caliber." As the Mercury Theater's assistant casting director, I had to monitor the Broadway shows of the time, and I can assure Mr. Goodman that even on Broadway, not all of those who obtained jobs were "of the first caliber."
As a fellow writer, I should like to remind Mr. Goodman that many of today's characters, including possibly both of us, will appear to be "cartoons" to future generations. After all, just as the era of "Cradle Will Rock" was the one that spawned an official government category, titled Premature Anti-Fascist (translation: you were on the record as opposing Hitler before it was officially decreed politically correct), who can say which of today's Great Ones will be found to be "too cartoonish" to be believed by those who follow us?
 
KEVIN O'MORRISON
Edmonds, Wash.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hallie Flanagan, director of the Federal Theater Project, in 1936. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); STRIKES (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WRITERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HISTORY (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); POLICE FORCES (64%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE ORSON 'ORSON' WELLES (73%); JOHN J HOUSEMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



563 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Stepping Up Middle-Income Housing Construction

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
THE middle-income housing production program that the city's Housing Development Corporation launched in 1998 has moved into a second phase of financing, with consequences visible in farflung corners of the city.
In the Baychester section of the Bronx, Rella Fogliano has started construction on the second phase of four contiguous four-story structures built as a rectangle around a 12,000-square-foot courtyard on two acres off Palmer Avenue, within sight of Co-op City. 
 In the Fresh Meadows section of Queens, the financing program has made it possible for David E. Marx to break ground for a 137-unit apartment house as the first stage of development on a vacant five-acre parcel off Parsons Boulevard at 72nd Avenue. It will be a neighbor to a rental building he completed in the 90's at 158-13 72nd Avenue.
And in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, John Frezza has begun the reconstruction of the old Clermont armory on Clermont Avenue between Willoughby and Myrtle Avenues into 111 apartments. Residents will enter the building through an atrium whose roof is supported by three of the original arched trusses over what was once a drill floor 125 feet wide and 180 feet long.
These and other projects are part of the second round of the "New Housing Opportunities" program of the Housing Development Corporation, a state-chartered public benefit corporation that provides bond financing for multifamily housing. In September 1998 enough financing was provided to generate 12 projects with a total of 930 apartments.
The program combines bond financing with the added nudge of a "shallow" subsidy per apartment. The amount varies with the project and the location, but it has so far averaged $21,700 per apartment. The developments also gets the benefit of the city's 421a program, which provides property tax abatements for as long as 25 years.
With the new round the program is now at 1,830 apartments in 25 projects, for a total of $185.6 million in first-mortgage financing at interest rates about a percentage point below conventional rates. The subsidy that the Housing Development Corporation provides has totaled $39.7 million so far. The subsidy takes the form of a second mortgage, typically at 1 percent interest.
These are modest numbers in relation to the public investment in the production of middle-income housing in the past under the Mitchell-Lama program, which produced thousands of rental and co-op apartments across the state from the 1960's through the mid-1980's. But they are significant in showing a revival in the use of public funds to induce new multifamily rental housing for moderate-income people. The beneficiaries are typically households with annual incomes ranging from $30,000 to $70,000.
W E could not have started construction without this program because the rents we can get in Fresh Meadows aren't high enough to support a conventional loan," said Mr. Marx, the Queens developer. With conventional financing, he said, "I would need to get about $25 a square foot" -- about $1,800 a month for a 650-square-foot one-bedroom.
Under the New Housing Opportunities Program, builders may normally charge up to $850 a month for a studio apartment, $1,200 for a one-bedroom, $1,550 for a two-bedroom and $1,750 for a three-bedroom. Income limits for renters are established in a manner similar to the Mitchell-Lama program: Household earnings may be as high as seven times the annual rent in families of one or two, or eight times the annual rent for three or more family members. Most potential tenants earn well below the maximum limits.
As the program has progressed, H.D.C. officials say, building costs have increased, obliging the agency to raise the maximum subsidy per apartment allowable under the program. The maximum allowable subsidy per unit (normally taking the form of a very-low-interest loan) was $20,000 a unit when the program started; it now has been raised to $40,000 a unit. Officials said they doubted it would go any higher.
Russell A. Harding, president of the Housing Development Corporation, said that by increasing the allowable subsidy, the program had "adapted nicely" to a rise in interest rates and construction costs, which is what has allowed it to carry on.
Perhaps the most unusual of the housing designs that the program has generated so far is Ms. Fogliano's 135-unit full-block development in the north Bronx, on land bounded by Tillotson, Palmer and Given Avenues near Interstate 95. Apartments are entered from internal walkways on all four levels; there are two major entrances from the street, one of which takes vehicles headed for the 71-car underground garage.
"It's an unusual site," said Ms. Fogliano, who founded MacQuesten General Contracting, a construction company based in Mount Vernon, N.Y., two years ago. Her father, Sabino Fogliano, headed Sabin Construction Company for 35 years, phasing out the business in the 80's.
Mr. Fogliano assembled the Baychester site, and his daughter spent two years seeking a zoning variance to make development feasible. She succeeded in 1997. The form of the building was governed by the need to adhere to height restrictions required by the Board of Standards and Appeals.
Because of the design, apartments are unusually large, and they are floor-throughs since there are no public central halls in the development. The apartment flooring is also unusual, a concrete plank with a vinyl surface that has the appearance of grainy wood. DePasquale and Geremia Architects and Planners, of Mount Vernon, was the architect. About 50 of the apartments have been taken at rents of $775 a month for one-bedrooms, $1,000 to $1,050 for two-bedrooms and $1,245 to $1,325 for three-bedrooms, Ms. Fogliano said. Occupancy begins next month.
The Fresh Meadows project by Mr. Marx is the first phase of a three-building plan he has for five acres of vacant land between 72nd and 71st Avenues off Parsons Boulevard. He is acting as the developer of a seven-story 200-unit assisted-living building, as well as a 200-bed nursing home. His mother, Frances Marx, will be the licensed operator of the assisted-living facility. The operating partners of the nursing home are Simon Pelman, Benjamin Landa and Benjamin Philipson.
At the apartment house, half the apartments will be one-bedrooms, renting at about $1,000 a month, and the rest will be two-bedrooms renting for about $1,300 a month. There will also be 20,000 square feet of medical space. Occupancy is expected in the early spring of next year.
Many of the new projects are reconstructions of older nonresidential structures as housing. The rehabilitations are eligible for the city's J-51 tax abatement. Among the conversions that have been financed in the second round are Bronx buildings at 597 Grand Avenue, which will have 52 apartments; 167 Clermont Avenue, with 110 apartments, and 139 Emerson Place, 50 apartments.
The rental programs are handled by the owner, or the management company appointed by the owner. The Housing Development Corporation provides information on how to go about applying for an apartment. The phone number is (212) 227-5500.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Palmer Court, a north Bronx rental apartment complex now under construction, with four buildings surrounding a courtyard. Below, Rella Fogliani, its developer. (Photographs by George Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (57%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (57%); CO-OP '82 UA (57%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (57%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (57%); CO-OP STAR RT (57%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (57%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (57%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (57%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (57%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (57%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); BONDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



564 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: A Festival of Arts and Ideas Expands

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL

 BODY:
FIVE years ago when a group of cultural arts and economic leaders in New Haven decided they wanted to create an annual festival located around the city's 350-year-old green, skeptics advised them that it couldn't be done.
Some supporters said even if organizers managed to get it off the ground, people used to summers of roller coasters and cotton candy likely wouldn't come to a European-style event that combined education and social issues with fun and entertainment. But the International Festival of Arts and Ideas, inspired by the success of the Special Olympics World Games here in 1995, attracted 50,000 people over a four-day period when it opened in 1996. 
 By last summer the multifaceted celebration of the arts, education, science and global cultures had expanded to 16 days and drew more than 110,000 visitors who pumped $11.6 million into the local economy, according to an independent analysis by the Business School at Quinnipiac College.
Last week, festival organizers unveiled perhaps their most ambitious plan yet: to expand to three cities and become the first state-wide festival in the United States by adding Stamford and New London.
But, in their belief that the arts can help spur economic growth and revitalization, the three very different coastal communities along a 100-mile stretch of the Connecticut Turnpike, are now linked together by what state officials, city leaders and festival organizers believe will become one of the major cultural events in the Northeast.
In New Haven, this year's festival is scheduled to open June 16 and run through July 1. That site will include events such as a Singapore production of "Othello" by the Saigon Water Puppet Theater of Vietnam, classical and pop concerts and dance, and family-theme entertainment.
The festival will be held for five-day intervals in Stamford (June 20-24) and in New London (June 27-July 1). Some events will be in all three cities; others will be exclusive to a particular city.
"Expanding to three cities will allow us to build one of the great international festivals in the world, and Connecticut is among very few states in this country where we could do this," said the festival director, Paul Collard.
Mr. Collard said that being a small state allows easy access to the three cities. Stamford and New London are both about a 45-minute drive from New Haven, he said, which in his native Britain is about the time it takes to get from one side of London to the other. Mr. Collard is a former organizer of the London Film Festival.
Mr. Collard said that "by collaborating with Stamford and New London we will be able to deliver a richer program, attain a higher profile, and attract a much broader audience."
That audience, expected to be more than 200,000 this year, is likely to be drawn more heavily from New York, which is near Stamford, and from Rhode Island, not far from New London.
Mr. Collard, who moved from London three years ago with his wife and four children to head the Connecticut event, said that expanding the festival's audience-base beyond the state is crucial to its continuing growth. He said he envisions other cities like Bridgeport and Hartford taking part in the future.
Gov. John G. Rowland is pledging hundreds of thousands of dollars in state funding, with festival organizers hoping for about $1 million from the state. Last year the state allocated about $700,000 for the event on top of about $800,000 in corporate donations and $300,000 from ticket sales.
Mr. Collard said the overall festival budget, which was about $2.4 million last year, is expected to double this year and ticket sales are expected to bring in more than a half-million dollars. Gov. Rowland said he has been impressed by the economic contribution the festival has made to New Haven.
"It gives me great pleasure to see three of Connecticut's major cities collaborating on this initiative," Gov. Rowland said, "which in addition to bringing world-class entertainment to people within the state, will help establish Connecticut as one of the top arts destinations in the United States."
Arts, business and political leaders in Stamford said their city's expanding emphasis on the arts as a vehicle for economic growth and revitalization makes it a perfect community for partnership in the festival, which was initiated by the nonprofit Stamford Cultural Development Corporation.
Events will be held in about an eight-block area in the center of the city's arts community near the Rich Forum and the Stamford Center for the Arts and will include free outdoor jazz concerts and street theater, and will highlight the United States premiere of the one-man show, "Shakespeare's Villains," performed by the British actor Steven Berkoff. Hugo and Ines, a mime and puppet company that festival leaders say enthralled last year's audiences in New Haven, will also perform this year in Stamford and New London.
"The festival certainly fits in extremely well with our goal to make Stamford an overall arts destination and the entertainment and arts capital not only of Fairfield County, but of neighboring Westchester County in New York," said Stamford Mayor Dannel P. Malloy.
Christopher Bruhl, president and chief executive of the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association of Connecticut, a business council that includes 600 members in Fairfield County, has the perspective that comes with having also headed the Westchester Arts Council from 1980-90. Mr. Bruhl said he has learned from heading both groups how important a role the arts can play in a region's economic renaissance.
He said that because Fairfield County is home to 28 Fortune 1,000 companies, making it the third-largest concentration of such firms in any county in the nation behind just New York and Chicago, more people are commuting into the region every day to jobs than departing.
That makes it imperative, Mr. Bruhl said, for the arts to continue growing and for there to be two distinct facets to that growth -- "the bread and butter of year-round attractions like the Maritime Aquarium in Norwalk, and intense high-profile events like this festival that generate tremendous interest and building up to a week or two of excitement."
"A dynamic and growing cultural community is no longer a luxury for cities like Stamford in a time when many people can choose to live just about anywhere they want," continued Mr. Bruhl.
In New London, which like Stamford is in the middle of a cultural arts renaissance, the festival events will be held on the green overlooking Long Island Sound on the campus of Connecticut College. While there will be a wide range of outdoor concerts and shows, the main focus at the college will be on dance, which has played a prominent role in the history of the 89-year-old private, liberal arts school.
Three years ago the college launched a $10 million, multifaceted arts initiative that included the 1998 International Dance Festival that featured more than 100 dancers and national and international dance companies. Bringing major dance performances back to the campus as part of the international festival provides "an exciting opportunity to draw on our own history of dance and the arts," said Claire Gaudiani, the college president who is also president of the New London Development Corporation that is making the arts a major part of its economic revitalization plan for the city and region.
"We have long viewed the arts as an opportunity for social integration and to encourage people to share cultural diversity, and now this festival will bring together three diverse cities as well," Ms. Gaudiani said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The International Festival of Arts & Ideas, a European-style event, is in New Haven, above, again this year, and also Stamford and New London. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIETNAM (74%); VIET NAM (53%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (74%); 

COMPANY: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (57%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (57%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIETNAM (74%); VIET NAM (53%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FESTIVALS (94%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FILM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COASTAL AREAS (65%); THEATER COMPANIES (63%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (55%); 

PERSON: PAUL COLLARD (86%); JOHN G ROWLAND (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



565 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 11; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Check Out the Classics. They're Hot Again

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
BEFORE the season's end, Connecticut's high-profile regional theaters will be dreaming up new ways to check out the classics, mostly to lure and to enlighten new audiences.
Why the classics? Easy. The classics are hot, that's why. 
 Staging a voodoo "Macbeth" or a rock "Hamlet" is old news. So is free-for-all, free-form and free-of-charge Shakespeare. But even so-called Shakespeare festivals are neither all about Shakespeare nor particularly festive. And when a starry spectacle like "Titus," now at multiplexes everywhere, serves as a gory antidote to last year's even starrier "Midsummer Night's Dream," it is clear that the centuries-divide between classical and modern is blurry. How prophetic that the Julie Taymor masks and puppets (then unknown) were stealing the show -- the show was "The Tempest," produced by Theater for New Audiences -- at the state's Stratford festival, during its last gasps well over a decade ago.
It may be too soon to get a conceptual statement from Yale Repertory's artistic director, Stan Wojewodski Jr., about the time line or the demented state of "Richard III" in the Yale School of Drama's staging to run March l8 through April 8. For now, Mr. Wojewodski, trying to define his "strategy for this production," is talking about a "charming villain" who loses control when he gains the crown. It is then that melodrama becomes tragedy, or something like that.
The drama school's third-year students will be scaling what the director calls "a mountain of a play": Yale Repertory includes a production that is cast with drama students in its otherwise professional repertory every season. This is it. Previous School of Drama productions of classics have been staged by such directors as Everett Quinton (Farquhar's "Beaux Stratagem") and Mark Rucker ("Twelfth Night").
And Mark Brokaw, who has been acclaimed for his diverse Off Broadway triumphs ("As Bees in Honey Drown," "The Dying Gaul" and, in particular, "How I Learned to Drive" and "This Is Our Youth"), has replaced Roger Rees as director of "The Comedy of Errors" at Hartford Stage (April 6-May 7.)
How Mr. Brokaw will nail the unnailable farce is anybody's guess. What pleases Michael Wilson, Hartford Stage's artistic director, is that this is the theater's first Shakespeare since Mark Lamos's memorable "Cymbeline" in l997, that it is Hartford Stage's first "Comedy of Errors," though it is the theater's 19th Shakespeare production but, most of all, that "Shakespeare is hip again." "Young people are reveling in his language," Mr. Wilson said.
Since Mr. Brokaw's productions, even of the classics ("Tartuffe" at the New York Shakespeare Festival in Central Park last summer) tend to be "clear, minimalist and straightforward," in Mr. Wilson's words, it is hardly likely that he will go as ungrammatical and off-the-wall as the current Off Broadway "add-rap-tation" that shamelessly calls itself "Bomb-itty of Errors." (A press release describes it as a "fusion of hip-hop" that is meant to give "the bard a brand new beat.") An old timer depends on Mr. Brokaw's vision, version or variation upon a wild, crazy, slapstick, very silly and anything but straightforward play, to illuminate the difference between hip and hip-hop.
On a more sober side, Doug Hughes, Long Wharf's artistic director, has opted to close in Ibsen's already closed-in "Hedda Gabler," dispatching her to the confines of the theater's Stage II. That should be a clear and immediate form of assisted suicide for a classically unsatisfiable heroine of the doomed.
But Long Wharf's main stage is to make the dour Bertolt Brecht, once referred to as the master of "inchoate despair," come alive with a relevantly new difference that couldn't hit closer to home. The show is titled "The Good Person of New Haven," Not Szechwan, though the person is a woman, a prostitute, actually. The advertisements call it "a celebration of our home town."
Brecht, a celebration? Didn't one scholar once declare that the radical political playwright was "barely intelligible, particularly to safe and sane Americans?" Anyway, Long Wharf's Brechtian party dates are April 26 to June 4.
"I'm a modernizing-the-classics kind of guy," said Bill Rauch, artistic director of the Los Angeles-based Cornerstone Theater Company, the brainchildren of modern-day Brecht transported wherever. Consider the company's "Caucasian Chalk Circle" in Watts.
"Doug allowed us to take it slow and build it carefully," said Mr. Rauch of the evolution of Brecht in New Haven. Building "bridges between and within diverse communities" defines the mission of Cornerstone, which is expected to develop the New Brunswick Community Bridge Project in New Jersey with the George Street Playhouse (with which Long Wharf collaborated on two productions this season).
"We work to help build an inclusive theater of the United States," Mr. Rauch said, in a telephone conversation from the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, where he was directing a new adaptation of Ibsen's "Wild Duck."
The term "community specific" is used to describe all Cornerstone productions, which have ranged from a Wild West "Hamlet" in North Dakota in 1986, the troupe's first year, to a timbertown take on Brecht: "The Good Person of Long Creek," in Oregon, two years later.
Mr. Hughes saw Shakespeare's "Winter's Tale," Cornerstone style; when he arrived at Long Wharf, he called Mr. Rauch "to build something together," the Cornerstone director recalled.
At the New Haven Arts and Ideas Festival last summer, it all began. Alison Carey, who comes from Storrs, founded Cornerstone with Mr. Rauch and wrote the adaptation of Brecht, several drafts' worth, each evolving from workshops "in neighborhood sites," Mr. Rauch said. In July, three staged readings were held at Long Wharf's Stage II.
But how does the play connect to the city? That was the abiding question and Ms. Carey and collaborators are providing the answer. "In New Haven, we have the most economic extremes," Mr. Rauch had observed. "Extreme wealth. Extreme poverty. And Alison is aware that New Haven, more than anywhere we've worked, has passion about the civic life of the city. In other communities, people just shrug. Here, everyone has an opinion and shares the faith that things can get better."
When auditions were held last spring, 292 people -- not actors, mind you, but one could say good people of New Haven -- showed up, "and that broke the record after 14 years of our lives."
The Long Wharf cast consists of 10 Equity actors -- and 27 from the community (20 of whom appear in a performance). The age range is 7 to 80-plus, Mr. Rauch said, and then there are 5 musicians.
"The spirit may be sentimental -- let's all get along and all that," Mr. Rauch went on. "But grittier realities of race and economics are keeping people apart. The play is a sometimes cynical fable. Brecht is a consummate storyteller. Who is so intensely theatrical today? Maybe Tony Kushner. Here, angels come down to the New Haven Green, looking for a good person. But Brecht was dealing with the intersection of money and morality."
As much to the point, Mr. Rauch added: "And a company like ours needs to work with big casts and huge canvases. What would we do with a three-character play? Most theaters can only afford small; we want big -- bigger."
And therein lives the future of epic theater.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Brokaw (Joan Marcus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); 

PERSON: MARK BROKAW (73%); BERTOLT BRECHT (69%); HOLCOMBE 'MICHAEL' WILSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



566 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
Where Denial Meets Racial Reality

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
IT doesn't show itself so much in raw exercises of power or abuse, like job discrimination or name-calling, although that can be part of the package. Rather, say gay men who are black or Latino, homophobia in their neighborhoods trades most pervasively in myth, denial and fear.
People are talking these days with renewed urgency about this kind of gay bias, especially as it relates to AIDS. That's because of the recent devastating news from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: for the first time since AIDS was discovered about 20 years ago, it was diagnosed in more black and Hispanic gay men than in white gay men. 
 Stigma about homosexuality seems to play a major role in the spread of the disease, said Dr. Helene Gayle, who heads the H.I.V. program at the Centers for Disease Control. One of its surveys found that four times as many black men as white men who had sex with men did not identify themselves as gay or bisexual.
The latest news puts the racial reality of AIDS in stark terms, some gay black and Latino men are saying. It strengthens the position of advocates who say new strategies, more money and more attention is needed to battle AIDS in their communities, where many people still equate gay with white men. Too often there is silence around issues of sexuality, or the belief in myths like the ability of women to turn gay men straight.
"Part of the reason you're seeing this spread of H.I.V. is the denial in our community," said City Councilman Phil Reed, 49, who represents parts of East Harlem, the Upper West Side and the South Bronx. He's black and H.I.V.-positive. "There is so much you have to face in the day-to-day life of racism," he says, that for many people AIDS and homophobia don't seem like the most pressing concerns.
Keith Cylar, a co-executive director of Housing Works, an AIDS social service agency, has a story that speaks to the place where myth and painful social realities meet. He has had the experience often enough that he can laugh about it, although there is some pain beneath the mirth. A woman expresses interest and he tells her he is gay. She then tells Mr. Cylar that he just hasn't met the right woman.
"I've had black women tell me I'm too good-looking to be gay," Mr. Cylar, 41, said. He said he detected bitterness or even desperation in the attitude of some women, because so many are competing for a pool of black men whose eligibility has been diluted by prison, drugs or unemployment.
"We don't necessarily want to accept people who are athletic or highly intelligent in leadership roles who are gay," Mr. Cylar said. "The leadership in the black community is conservative because they have had to work that much harder to get where they are."
Andres Duque, 31, who lives with his partner in Jackson Heights, Queens, said that from his perspective as an openly gay Latino man, part of the problem is that the word "gay" has not been incorporated into the lexicon of many Latinos, even if they know a man has sex with men. Many associate AIDS, he said, with white gay men, who were in the forefront of the most visible battles for education and research to prevent the spread of H.I.V.
"Not too many Spanish-language shows feature gays," said Mr. Duque, who works for the Latino Commission on AIDS. "The soap operas tend to show gays in stereotypical ways."
How you label people and chose your affiliations remain paramount issues among Latinos, said Julio Dicent. He is 32, Puerto Rican and Dominican and lives in Washington Heights with his partner, Angel Ortiz. Both work as AIDS educators and advocates for people with the disease.
"The way Latino gay men deal with sexuality is very different from white men," Mr. Dicent said. "Where's my primary affiliation? Am I a gay man who happens to be Latin or African-American? I've been criticized a lot about a focus around AIDS by gay Latin men. They say we have a lot more pressing needs: the dropout rate in some Latin communities is 80 percent; incarceration, drug use, police brutality."
"Can you imagine being in the country illegally, not acculturated, not speaking the language, and being H.I.V.-positive?" Mr. Dicent said. "Even privileged gay white men are worried about issues of confidentiality and stigma. What happens when you don't feel entitled to certain services?"
Mr. Dicent said that terms like "out" and "in the closet" are rarely used by black or Latino gays. "We don't have the economic access to leave our communities," he said. "We start dating in our communities, though, and it's unsaid."
On the upside, Mr. Reed wonders if the new numbers, however alarming they are, suggest that more gay black and Latino men are learning their H.I.V. status. Perhaps, he says, this will usher in a new era of education and visibility. That is his hope, at least, and the hope of the many who bear witness to this tragedy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Bob Hambly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIDS & HIV (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); MEN (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); EXECUTIVES (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: KEITH CYLAR (70%); JULIO DICENT (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



567 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
A Tale and the Man Who Had to Tell It

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM

 BODY:
KEITH SCRIBNER had just finished a master's degree in creative writing at the University of Montana in Missoula eight years ago and was living about 25 miles out of town in a log cabin at the end of a dirt road. It was there, as he listened to a radio broadcast, that faraway reality intruded: the saga of Arthur and Irene Seale and the man they had kidnapped, an Exxon official in New Jersey named Sidney J. Reso.
For Mr. Scribner, now 38 and a lecturer in the writing program at Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., the intrusion became a writer's obsession. The result is his first published novel, "The GoodLife" (Riverhead Books), which came out this month, to favorable reviews. 
 It is a thoughtful caper-thriller of a crime gone wrong. But the outcome has been known for years. The real mystery is one of human understanding: what was it like to live through hell, who would create such a hell and why?
The initial mystery, of the Seales' motivation and of Mr. Reso's fate, persisted through May and June of 1992. The captive's wife, Patricia, issued televised pleas for his return. The authorities said they had no leads. Then suddenly it was over.
After what the United States attorney called "a merry chase through the night," the F.B.I. seized the Seales in Hackettstown. They turned out to be ordinary people -- not the eco-terrorists they had claimed to be. Both were 45 years old and jobless, the parents of two teen-agers. They had crushing debt and few prospects except the corrupted optimism -- or desperation -- that had led them to demand $18.5 million for Mr. Reso's safe return. The ransom was never paid. Mr. Reso was found dead.
The Seales, for a brief time, had become two of the most wanted criminals in the country. Now, through Mr. Scribner's imagination, they have been reincarnated as Theo and Colleen Wolkoviak, two feckless strivers, not so different from many others, perhaps. Except that they committed an unspeakable crime in a very public way.
"How could these people, who seemed to me so basically normal, middle-class American people do this? To feel this was their only choice." Mr. Scribner said. "When I first heard about it I thought, 'How interesting. It's a corporate executive who's been kidnapped' -- a lot like what goes on in, I don't know, Brazil. It didn't happen so much in this country. Right away I thought of the social implications. Does this indicate something about class unrest?"
It was more complicated than that, of course, and in time it would become, in Mr. Scribner's hands, a story with the trappings of classic tragedy: how the Wolkoviaks's tortured dreams of the good life -- their tragic flaw -- had destroyed the lives of another couple.
Mr. Scribner stayed close to the basic plot of the real case, but compressed time, zeroing in on the implications of both couples' pursuit of the American dream, which the Wolkoviaks believed their captive had achieved.
At the time of his disappearance, Sidney Reso, 57, was president of Exxon International, directing the oil company's operations outside North America. He and his wife lived in an expensive housing development in Morris Township. In the book, the couple are named Stona and Nunny Brown.
Arthur Seale had been a police officer in Hillside, where his father had once served as deputy chief. He possessed a departmental record clouded by misconduct and left the force in 1977 with a disability pension after being hit by another officer's car. Later, he became a security officer at Exxon -- in Florham Park, where Mr. Reso worked -- earning about $60,000 a year. He and his wife had a son in college and a daughter in high school. But the Seales, both blond and fit, wanted more. They left New Jersey in 1986, living far beyond their means in the resort towns of Vail, Colo., and Hilton Head, S.C. Their ski-and-sail businesses failed. They returned to New Jersey to live with Mr. Seale's retired parents in Hunterdon County.
The Seales abducted Mr. Reso from his driveway in Morris Township on an ordinary Wednesday morning, April 29, as he was about to start the short drive to work. They shoved him into a crudely built coffin-like box in the back of a rented van and drove to a storage locker, where they held him for five days. Meanwhile, they tried to project the image of a normal home life while negotiating for ransom with Exxon.
Mr. Reso, who had suffered a gunshot wound in one arm during the abduction, remained bound and gagged with duct tape, lying in his own waste in 100-degree heat in the storage locker. During periodic visits, Mrs. Seale would dress the wound and give him water. When he died, five days after his abduction, the Seales buried his body in the Pine Barrens in South Jersey.
When the Seales were finally arrested, still angling for their windfall, Mr. Reso had been dead for seven weeks.
For Mr. Scribner, the tale proved hypnotic, but would not work as a standard narrative. "I wanted to be able to explore the dreams and justifications and passions and ambitions of these people from inside their own heads," Mr. Scribner said. "The only way to do that was five points of view. There was no way, with a single narrator."
Mr. Scribner's account takes place over just three days, during which time he lets the reader see and hear the Browns, the Wolkoviaks and Theo's father, Malcolm, who loves his son but is locked in a lifelong battle to understand the younger man's impetuousness, his penchant for failure.
Mr. Scribner writes cinematically, with scenes alternating among the hapless but curiously sympathetic Wolkoviaks, Nunny Brown's hopeless vigil and Stona Brown's cruel captivity.
"Another thing, as it evolved, was the pronounced suffering of Reso in that box," Mr. Scribner said. "Is it possible to imagine that? It was a chance for me to reveal that particular man's experience of being locked in this box and dying and also what his response would be, which mainly is this guilt about his past and his wish for redemption. You know we talk about character changing, or just revealing character. It gave me an opportunity to do both."
The Seales's transgressions are obvious, those of Stona Brown less so, initially. And here, Mr. Scribner, who, like Stona Brown, grew up Roman Catholic, decided to make Mr. Brown's final days a dual struggle -- the struggle to stay alive and the struggle to atone for both corporate sin and those of a more personal nature.
At first, Mr. Scribner had envisioned the Reso case as part of a longer novel; ultimately it became the novel itself. Although to anyone who followed the case closely, it appears that Mr. Scribner could be simply fleshing out details, his account came solely from his imagination.
"The original title for this was 'American Ethic'," Mr. Scribner said. "It was a line right out of Arthur Seale's mouth." The full quote, made in a jailhouse interview with Barbara Walters, was: "My whole life I've been a hard-working, moral, decent individual. And we really epitomized the American ethic."
But "The GoodLife" won out, being as it is a bit of wordplay on the Wolkoviaks's aspirations. In the universe Mr. Scribner has constructed, Colleen dreams of becoming the enormously well-compensated captain of a highly motivated sales squad for GoodLife products, a home-sales program.
The idea, he said, came from a man he met in Turkey, where he lived for a time.
"This Turkish guy that I knew was trying to get me to sell Amway," Mr. Scribner said. "And as soon as he made his presentation to me -- he was just so loaded with this stuff that I'd been making up about Colleen, all of the aphorisms, that business self-help speak -- this just fell into my lap."
Mr. Scribner, who graduated from Vassar College in 1984, grew up in Troy, N.Y. He majored in economics, intent on a business career -- "it was the '80's, I was ready to jump on." But a writing course in his senior year turned his head.
He went to Japan to teach English, came back and worked as a carpenter and as a teacher, but continued to write. He even taught, briefly, in New Jersey, at Saddle River Day School. At Stanford, he met his wife, a poet, Jennifer Richter. They have a 5-month-old son, Luke.
So far, he said, his plan to skip the business world has worked out.
"O.K.," Mr. Scribner said he told himself. "I'm going to give this 10 years. And basically, that's how long it took."
 
The New York Times Dec. 1, 1992
 MORRISTON, N.J., Nov. 30 -- In appearances before Federal and state judges today, Arthur D. Seale was sentenced to life in prison for the kidnapping, extortion and murder of Sidney J. Reso, a senior Exxon official.
 "What you have done is thoroughly evil," said Judge Garret E. Brown Jr. of United States District Court in Trenton. "Your actions were not for any cause. They were not rash or impulsive. They were cold-blooded and calculated. To the extent you seek mercy you will be given the same you gave your innocent victim -- none."
 Then, totaling the seven conspiracy and extortion counts in the indictment, Judge Brown imposed the maximum sentence, requested by the United States Attorney, Michael Chertoff: 95 years with no parole and a fine of $1.75 million.
 "You will spend the rest of your life in custody," Judge Brown told Mr. Seale, who pleaded guilty to both sets of charges in September, after his wife, Irene, confessed to their roles and led investigators to Mr. Reso's body. Referring in part to the Seales' treatment of Mr. Reso, Judge Brown added, "You will be fed, medical treatment will be provided, but you will not be bound, gagged, shot or placed in a coffin."
 Moments before Judge Brown passed sentence, Mr. Reso's son, Christopher, was permitted to address the court. Speaking of the family's anguish, he said: "When Arthur and Irene Seale were arrested and the answers finally came, they seemed more cruel and perverted than even our tormented dreams could conjure.
 "After all," he said, "these are people with their own family. Couldn't they realize the depth of the wound that this would inflict on our family? Shouldn't they have known in the core of their beings that what they contemplated was a violation of all that family and decency stood for?"
 
"The Goodlife"
 "Isn't it unique to think we could make loads of money for the reason being that we're better people?" In Vail, in their living room, Colleen had arrayed before Theo the products she'd bought at the GoodLife informational meeting that afternoon at the Sheraton in Denver. "But this is the Goodlife philosophy."
 Theo examined the hefty bottle of car wash, the glossy picture on the label and the bright red cap, weighing it in his hand. "What makes you think this stuff's any good?"
 "They're excellent products. Everyone knows that. But the point being most of your money comes from the plan, from the system you set up below you, and not from your own sales." On the coffee table -- made from a huge old blacksmith's bellows they'd found antiquing down toward Durango -- she's placed the various products: the car wash and wax, complexion soap made from honey (a quarter the price of department stores), dish detergent, metal polish, toothpaste, mouthwash, and the classic GoodLife product, LiquidGold, the all-purpose cleanser that had made millions.
 "Twenty wide and twenty deep is my initial plan. I comes out to four hundred people below me at a maximum take of twenty-one percent. Plus bonuses. Think about it. I've started the calculations, it's very complex. Let's just say, for a ballpark figure, easily six digits within twelve months."
 Theo smirked, looking to the side the way he did. Ready to suck the wind out of her sails. To shoot her down. But she wouldn't let him, not this time. She understood that her new income might emasculate him. The freedom it would afford her. The entree into certain social circles. She would be patient with her husband. "GoodLife is about understanding your goals," she said. "then setting out to fulfill them. It's about helping you get in touch with your own desires, what's inside you. Otherwise, you spend your life striving for some dream that might not even be your own. Do I want to achieve Distinction Status in six months, or do I want to take more time building a wider front line so I reach Laurel a little farther down the road, but I roll through Prestige and Majesty Status like a tank? I honestly don't know. So part of the system is that through my upline and my sponsor, I'll get to know myself better as part of the business-building process. In that sense, it's very gestalt."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keith Scribner, author of the novel "The GoodLife," at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MONTANA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RIVERHEAD BOOKS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MONTANA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CREATIVE WRITING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); LAWYERS (67%); TERRORISM (50%); ECOTERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: SIDNEY J RESO (95%); KEITH SCRIBNER (86%); ARTHUR SEALE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



568 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Baby BoomersDiscover Guilt-Edged Luxury

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WE baby boomers have been criticized for most of our lives. Our parents weren't thrilled with our hairstyles, our social protests or our music. When we told our parents we were going to backpack around Europe instead of getting a job right out of college, they thought they had raised a generation of bums.
But now that we have helped lead the nation to the greatest economic expansion in history, we are being criticized again, this time for enjoying it. Our houses are too gaudy, our cars too big, and we think too much of ourselves instead of the greater good. We often respond to the criticism with defensiveness and guilt. A recent article, "The Narcissistic 90's," in The Trend Journal, a newsletter, says concern over social issues has been replaced by the need to succeed. 
"Signs of a narcissistic society are seen on city streets and manicured suburban roads filled with gas guzzling, carbon-monoxide spewing four-wheel-drive vehicles," it says. "Trophy houses and starter mansions consume land and resources beyond realistic housing needs." The article does not swipe at baby boomers directly, but its target is clear.
Although the premise is hard to deny, it is not the whole story. Financial advisers say some baby boomers are extremely uncomfortable with their wealth and go out of their way not to let the money show. "One client said he pays in taxes three times what his father made in salary," said Kyra H. Morris, president of Morris Financial Concepts, a financial planning firm in Charleston, S.C. "Some are uncomfortable that they are making so much more than their parents or the people they run around with."
Ms. Morris told of a wealthy client who asked her advice about the wisdom of buying a fancy sports car. He thought it was too much money. "I told him, "If I can afford a $35,000 sports car, you can afford a $35,000 sports car," she said.
The man, who requested that his name not be used, said he was worried about his image. "Yeah, I really went back and forth on that," he said. "I still do not drive the car to work. It sends out the wrong message that I'm displaying too much wealth and flaunting my success."
To some boomers, the issue is not just about flaunting, but about the social responsibility that wealth brings. Considering that this generation once took to the streets over social issues, the pull some feel to put their money at the service of their idealism is not surprising.
Kenneth Bauer, 36, owner of Bauer International, a furniture importer and designer in Charleston, said his wealth had allowed him to donate to various groups. He and his wife, Dee Ann, also helped teach a village in Ghana how to make decorative brass hardware for his furniture. The village is now one of his suppliers.
"The trophy house and the 80-foot yacht are not what kicks me in the tail," he said. "My main focus is, I have an obligation to give back to the community because of my success."
James E. Carroll, 45, a partner at Carroll Realty in Isle of Palms, S.C., is active in several charities and said he tried not to flaunt his wealth.
"I'm almost embarrassed about the amount of money I make," he said. "I have an old Mercedes to drive clients around in and a Dodge Caravan. I wanted to buy a sailboat, but I can't see spending that kind of money. My whole goal is to save the money and not throw it around."
The newly wealthy are the most likely to feel conflicting urges. David B. Yeske of Yeske & Company, a financial planning firm in San Francisco, said people who come into wealth suddenly often lack a well-developed idea of what the money means in their lives. Is the money a goal in itself or a tool for social good?
"Some people are incapable of acting responsibly because they haven't developed the framework that relates them to their money in some meaningful way," he said.
But those who are least comfortable with their wealth are the most likely to ponder broader goals. "Those who are thinking more clearly and deeply what this money means," he said, "are usually very conflicted."
They are also the most likely to feel responsibility to the community. "That resonates with them," Mr. Yeske said. "Not those who just go out and act like it's Christmas and buy a new boat or a Mercedes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Joel Priddy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%); GHANA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHARLESTON S C (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%); GHANA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE BABY BOOMERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (70%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (70%); CARBON MONOXIDE (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (56%); SUBURBS (53%); 

PERSON: DAVID B YESKE (62%); KYRA H MORRIS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



569 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
On Sale: Used Nuclear Plant (Safety Debate Included)

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

 BODY:
WHETHER buying a used car or a used nuclear power plant, the idea is pretty much the same: pay a fraction of the original cost and accept that the merchandise has a shorter lifespan.
"I would guess so," said Dick Breitweiser, who reconditions used cars for Christopher Auto Sales in Lacey Township, and lives about a mile from the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station. "I would say 90 percent of the cars need something, brakes or lights, or the radio doesn't work." 
 There are differences, though. For one thing, a jalopy's excess emissions do not pose a threat of catastrophe. And hundreds of jobs and millions of dollars a year in profits and tax revenues never hinged on extending the life of a pre-owned automobile, even a Lexus.
Such are the issues surrounding the proposed sale of the Oyster Creek plant by GPU Energy of Morristown to a company formed to buy up used nuclear plants and squeeze profits out of them in the emerging energy market created by deregulation. The deal is being opposed by local and national groups that want the plant shut down and say the proposed buyer, AmerGen Energy, does not have the mony to run the aging plant safely.
In fact, GPU announced in April 1997 that it would close Oyster Creek in September 2000 if it could not sell the plant, which was built 30 years ago for $96 million. Then the deal was announced last March to sell the plant to AmerGen Energy for $10 million. AmerGen, which has an office in Wayne, is a joint venture of Peco Energy of Philadelphia and British Energy of Edenbourgh.
Oyster Creek, the second oldest nuclear plant in the country, opened on Dec. 23, 1969, a week after its twin, the Nine Mile Point plant in upstate New York. Oyster Creek is licensed to operate through 2009, although the owner can apply for an extension.
GPU, the parent company of Jersey Central Power and Light, is getting out of the power-generating business. It has already sold a reactor to AmerGen at its Three Mile Island plant in Pennsylvania; that sale involved the TMI I reactor, which was not destroyed, as TMI II was, in the nuclear accident in 1979.
As New Jersey and other states dismantle the traditional system of regulated monopolies, GPU is transforming itself essentially into an energy broker, buying electricity in bulk and reselling it.
"GPU, the entire company, is getting out of the electrical-generation business," said Suzanne D'Ambrosio, a spokeswoman. "We're real happy that there was an interest in continuing to operate the plant."
With the purchase, AmerGen would also inherit a $455 million trust, financed by rate payers, to pay for the eventual closing.
The sale of Oyster Creek is subject to approval by the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities and the board's counterpart in New York State, where GPU also has customers, and by the Ocean County Utilities Authority.
The proposed buyer's financial health is among the criteria reviewed, and a Washington-based nonprofit group, the Nuclear Information Resource Service, filed a petition this month seeking a hearing on AmerGen's finances before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's atomic safety and licensing board.
"We don't believe that they've demonstrated the financial qualifications to take on this dilapidated reactor," said Paul Gunter, speaking for the group.
Mr. Gunter questioned the commitment of AmerGen's parent companies to finance operation of the reactors. Pressure to maximize profit could force the company to take safety shortcuts, he said, noting that AmerGen is a limited liability corporation, so the parent companies can avoid financial liability in the event of a disaster.
Mr. Gunter also criticized an announcement by AmerGen last week that it intends to lay off 10 percent of the plant's employees. An aging plant is likely to require increased attention, not less, he said.
He and other opponents also expressed concerns over the plant's buildup of spent fuel rods, which are housed in an increasingly crowded containment pool.
Bob DiSantis, a spokesman for AmerGen, dismissed the concerns, saying the employees to be laid off are in the business departments, not operations. Rather, he said, safety can only improve. "For any nuclear plant, becoming part of a larger nuclear organization is a good thing," he said.
The company has ample resources to operate Oyster Creek, Mr. DiSantis said, noting that regulators had to review the same criteria before approving the company's purchase at Three Mile Island.
Neil Sheehan, a spokesman for the nuclear commission, said no decision has been made on a hearing. He said the companies have asked for a decision on the sale by March.
Among the sale's strongest supporters is Mayor John C. Parker of Lacey, who is also chairman of the county utilities authority. Mr. Parker said the plant has been good for Lacey ever since he helped attract it in the early 1960's, after wary officials in Point Pleasant rejected it.
More than 40 percent of the 700 employees live in Lacey, Mr. Parker said. And the township receives $11.4 million a year in taxes from the plant, more than half this year's $17.4 million budget. GPU also sponsors youth athletic teams and contributes in countless ways to the fabric of the community, he added.
"They've been a wonderful neighbor," said Mr. Parker, a road and bridge builder whose family first settled in the area in 1687. "Because of them we have good schools, low taxes and no crime, or hardly any."
Others are less enthusiastic.
Maria Szczech, a former mayor of neighboring Ocean Township and a proponent of shutting down the plant, said her community receives few of its benefits and all of its risks. "The financial benefit, in terms of taxes, is nil," she said.
Willie DeCamp Jr., a trustee of an Ocean County group known as Oyster Creek Nuclear Watch, which favors closing, said local opposition is muted by economic dependence on the plant. "In Lacey, no one wants to stick their head up because so many of their neighbors make their living off the plant," he said.
Mr. Breitweiser, the used car man, raised a universal concern about nuclear waste that transcends Lacey's borders.
"Day to day you don't think about it," he said. "It's only when the sirens go off, and when they're selling it. And all that radioactive stuff in there, where does that go?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor John Parker wants the nuclear plant sold, not shut. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location the Oyster Creek nuclear power plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (64%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT CO (64%); PECO ENERGY CO (54%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); APPROVALS (68%); MONOPOLIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: PAUL GUNTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



570 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES;
Long-Sought Arena Seems Likely for Newark

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
Despite the "Perils of Pauline"-like turns during the last year over a sports arena in Newark, most people involved in the negotiations now agree that the $375 million project has a palpable momentum that makes it more and more likely.
But what these people cannot agree on is what is needed to sustain that momentum and alchemically transform what will no doubt be a shiny new architectural bauble into an engine of urban revitalization. 
 For one thing, there is a debate about the placement of the arena in relation to the city's transportation hub at Pennsylvania Station, and what placement would be the best stimulus to development. In addition, there is close examination of the vagaries of office space trends in the New York region to determine if Newark can count on a growing need for space.
Moreover, these questions are distinct from the tantalizing speculation surrounding the deal-making that might merge the New Jersey Nets with the New Jersey Devils and give the proposed 18,500-seat arena two tenants and nearly 200 nights a year of activity that some say is necessary to be economically viable.
Then there is the political drama surrounding the issues of whether the state will help the private and locally financed sports center and what will become of the state-owned Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands, where the teams now play.
The real concern, say real estate specialists and public officials, is whether the arena -- together with the Performing Arts Center, which has already buoyed hopes of revitalization -- can counter a four-decades-long flight of resources and touch off development and job opportunities that could restore Newark to a vibrant city.
"It is not a slam dunk that an arena in a city as small as Newark will make it a great urban center," said Larry Goldman, the president of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, the two-year old concert hall and theater complex four blocks from the proposed arena site. "It has to be something that enhances the urban environment, and these are intelligent people who want to do the right thing."
There are those -- especially among the residents in the proposed 40-acre redevelopment area -- who remain skeptical about the joint proposal of Mayor Sharpe James and the YankeeNets, which owns the New Jersey Nets and New York Yankees and which would own and operate the arena.
As the plan was submitted this month to Newark's Central Planning Board for consideration, Luz M. Torres, who lives in a house within blocks of the site, said that in her nearly 30 years in the city she has heard too many renaissance dreams and "will believe it when she sees it."
But others -- who know the specifics of the plan and who have an even larger stake in terms of property -- disagree with her, and are working to make some changes in an idea whose time they think has come.
"I earnestly hope and believe it will happen," said Jerome Gottesman, the president of Edison Properties, the huge parking lot company that owns several parcels in the area that would be condemned, barring his company from developing them himself. "But the question is how it should happen."
The city planning board is scheduled to begin hearings on Feb. 17, and the approval process by the City Council and the state is likely to take up to a year.
As it stands, the proposal put forth by the city and the YankeeNets calls for a $270 million, privately financed arena adjacent to Penn Station and accessible by covered walkways to Path trains, New Jersey Transit commuter rail and bus lines, Amtrak and the nearly complete light rail line to Newark Airport. About $25 million in local funds would be spent to widen roads, provide parking for 3,000 cars and create retail and commercial spaces as well as a grand entrance to the raised arena at Mulberry and Market Streets, west of the station.
If the city and the YankeeNets could get an additional $75 million in state financing, said Alfred Faiella, the deputy mayor for housing and economic development, that would allow the city to widen more roads and prepare the infrastructure for office and retail development, build a 25,000-seat soccer stadium on land west of the arena and closer to the retail strip and erect additional garages. "But the key to any of this is putting the arena right next to the train station," Mr. Faiella.
Mr. Gottesman, for one, is opposed to such a plan, and has gone to court to stop it because much of the land that the city would want for the footprint of the arena is owned by his company. He contends that the site should be used for office, retail and restaurant development while the arena should be closer to downtown.
Proximity to transportation is more crucial for office development than for an arena, he says, and juxtaposition of the arena and train station would help create a corridor of development and thriving economic activity stretching to and spilling into the retail hub along Broad Street.
Mr. Gottesman insisted in interviews that it was not just anger over the possible loss of his land to condemnation and the loss of development rights for lucrative office space that had motivated him to mount a court challenge. He said that the city's original proposal, unveiled in December 1998, envisioned placing the arena where he now wanted it, and for similar reasons.
He questioned why the city abandoned its earlier plan, and speculated that it might have to do with the overlap in ownership of the Gateway Center office complex and the YankeeNets organization. Gale & Wentworth, a partner in the Gateway Center, the office space next to the train station, is also a partner in the YankeeNets organization. Without competition from new office construction so close to mass transit, Mr. Gottesman asserted, the Gateway Center's position would certainly be enhanced.
Officials of Gale & Wentworth would not comment on his speculation. But Mr. Goldman of the arts center -- who is an urban planner and is knowledgeable about the city's redevelopment plans -- dismissed suggestions that real estate profits for the partners was a crucial consideration.
He said that the people behind the plan included Raymond Chambers, a business executive, philanthropist and partner in the YankeeNets who has shown a singular devotion to rebuilding the city. Mr. Goldman also said that proximity to the station, along with sensitive planning, was important for the success of the arena as well as its effect on additional development.
Much of the debate pivots on how real and deep the need is for spillover office space from Manhattan.
Mary Ann Tighe, a partner in Insignia/ ESG, a commercial real estate company in Manhattan and New Jersey, said that as recently as eight months ago Newark remained a tough sell despite tightening of the office real estate market in New York City. But with the continued rise in rents, Ms. Tighe said, Newark is becoming more attractive though still "a pioneering choice."
Nonetheless, she said, any development that ran people "through umbilical cords" from the train station to the arena rather than out on the streets would be a mistake. She said that office sites closer to the train station -- which set the stage for restaurants, stores, ATM's and other points of interaction along the path to an arena -- would be preferable.
"Transportation is crucial to the arena, it is true, but placement of it right there by the station is devastating to other downtown development and circumscribes it," Ms. Tighe said. "The arena will become a big wall around which you can't see to the rest of downtown and around which no one will venture."
Donald Eisen, executive managing director of Cushman and Wakefield of New Jersey, disagreed in part, saying that the market for office space was being driven by broader forces than just the overflow from New York.
Given that, Mr. Eisen said, questions about where the arena was placed might not be as crucial as some might think. He said the ultimate test would be whether the arena, the nearby Performing Arts Center and any other commercial and retail development would touch off residential development.
As he talked about Newark one recent evening, Mr. Eisen looked out his office window in East Rutherford overlooking the empty parking lots surrounding a darkened Meadowlands with its Giants stadium, Continental Arena and racetrack. It was "a suburban tableau," he said, the antithesis of a vibrant city where energy is always flowing.
"I think they will find other uses for the Meadowlands," he said. "But it is definitely a healthy development to get the teams into Newark to help rebuild the central city again. And as long as it promotes street activity and street life it may not be crucial where exactly an arena is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Looking down Columbia Street from Lafayette Street -- where sports complex would be situated -- toward downtown Newark. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 
Map: "Renewing Newark: Two Options"
Newark officials, wanting to spur economic development, have proposeed two downtown sports arenas: one without state financing and one with. Map outlines the basic plan and the expanded plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); BASEBALL (73%); THEATER (69%); AIRLINES (65%); 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



571 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Rising Upstarts Breathe New Life Into Battered Aerospace Industry

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif.

 BODY:
WHEN Carl Chen arrived in Southern California from Taiwan with $300 in his pocket, he looked skyward for opportunity. The year was 1968, and the region around Los Angeles was the uncontested world center of the burgeoning aerospace industry.
Three decades later, the industry is a shadow of its former self, with many of the most important companies from those days merged, moved or shrunk beyond recognition. Yet Dr. Chen, and a small band of entrepreneurs like him, believe there remains a bright future here in developing new and innovative aircraft. 
 "You have to be sort of childish to think this, but I think there's still a big opportunity in this business," said Dr. Chen, whose company, Advanced Aerodynamics and Structures, is working on a new line of small propjets in a 200,000-square-foot plant in this city. "Everybody else goes to a dot-com, but we are stupid enough to think that you can still make money making something."
Advanced, which says it has a $220 million backlog of orders for 182 of its new Jetcruzer corporate aircraft, exemplifies a new breed of aerospace manufacturers, hardened by bitter experience, that has emerged from the devastating downturn in Southern California aerospace.
Since 1993, the industry, once dominated by military and space contractors, has shed nearly 20,000 jobs in the region, and many of the flagship companies have migrated away or been acquired by companies based elsewhere, including Lockheed, Douglas Aircraft, Convair, and Hughes Aircraft, where Dr. Chen, who has a Ph.D. in engineering from the California Institute of Technology, once worked as a leading researcher.
Aerospace companies have also reduced employment in other regions, but the hemorrhaging was particularly severe in Southern California, which once dominated the business, not only nationally but in the world. Since the early 1990's, the region lost roughly one-fifth of its aerospace jobs, while the average elsewhere was just 3 percent. Now, for the first time in decades, Southern California is no longer the largest region for aerospace; it has been eclipsed by Seattle, home of Boeing, which acquired McDonnell Douglas in 1997.
Barry Sedlik, manager of economic and business development at Southern California Edison, the region's biggest privately owned electric utility, traces this collapse to a host of factors, including a widespread perception that living and doing business in the region is very expensive, which helps explain why many corporate headquarters have shifted to other regions after mergers and acquisitions. "When these firms moved, there weren't the allegiances that used to be there," Mr. Sedlik said.
Mr. Sedlik also credits effective "pork barrel" maneuvering by legislators from Georgia, Texas and other states, steering contracts to their districts and away from California. He said government procurement rules that stressed factors like local wages and cost of living tended to drive work elsewhere while more nuanced economic advantages, like the presence of a large skilled work force and easy access to suppliers, tended to be overlooked.
This trend has had a particularly harsh impact on the region's 20,000-odd smaller subcontractors, who account for the bulk of aerospace employment in the area. Many of these dozen-employee, million-dollar-a-year shops, long the heart and soul of the local industry, are being left behind by the few remaining prime contractors, whose escalating technological requirements and ever tougher price and delivery demands put even more subcontracting work beyond the small shops' reach.
"The landscape has changed," said David Goodreau, president of Quantum Manufacturing, a Burbank-based aerospace machine shop whose roots in the field date to before World War II. "The bigger companies can buy the equipment to meet the cost requirements of the primes. They can do the work of 10 of my shops." Quantum's payroll has dwindled to five workers in the last few years from 17.
Under these circumstances, the best entrepreneurial opportunities now may lie not in doing specialty work for the giants, but instead in developing new technology, as Advanced is doing. Some companies, like tiny Dyna-Cam Industries, are attempting this on little more than sweat and optimism. For more than 10 years, Dyna-Cam has been working on a high-efficiency new engine that may find uses in boats, aircraft and other vehicles.
Limping along on slightly more than $1 million invested by the founder, a former real estate agent named Pat Wilks, or borrowed from investors and the Small Business Administration, Dyna-Cam says it has orders for 50 of its new engines but not enough capital to begin full-scale production. "I'm not sure what's going to happen," said Ms. Wilks, whose father and brother are engine designers. "If we don't get more investment, we'll be in trouble soon."
Capital does not seem to be much of a problem for Advanced Aerospace. Begun with a $20 million investment from a Taiwanese businessman, the company went public in December 1996, raising enough money to finish developing the Jetcruzer. The company has tapped deeply into the region's reservoir of skilled workers, employing engineers with experience on projects like Lockheed Martin's F-117 Nighthawk stealth fighter, the B-2 Spirit stealth bomber from Northrop Grumman and the McDonnell Douglas MD-ll jetliner. The Jetcruzer makes use of innovations like a graphite composite skin and a very fuel-efficient engine. Unlike many aircraft its size, the Jetcruzer can carry passengers from New York to Los Angeles with only one stop. Its six-seat cabin was developed by designers from BMW's Southern California design studio, and is intended to appeal to younger executives and entrepreneurs whose success in the Internet economy put them into the target market for a business jet with a $1.5 million price tag.
Advanced expects to finish testing the aircraft by spring, and then submit it to the Federal Aviation Administration for safety approval. If all goes well, the company will have the Jetcruzer in full production by the end of the year, expanding its payroll to 300 from 100 today.
Given the still prodigious number of unemployed or underemployed skilled aerospace workers in the region, Dr. Chen expects little trouble staffing his plant. He already has 2,000 job applications on file.
"We have seen a lot of ups and downs in this business, and a lot of good people let go," Dr. Chen said, "but that has worked out for us. Everyone thinks this industry is wrong, but we believe we have turned out to be in the right place at precisely the right time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advanced Aerodynamics and Structures is tapping into Southern California's skilled work force to build its Jetcruzer 500 aircraft, above. The region's aerospace industry has shrunk in recent years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED AERODYNAMICS & STRUCTURES INC (AASI) DIRECTV (58%); BOEING CO (58%); MOONEY AEROSPACE GROUP LTD (56%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED AERODYNAMICS & STRUCTURES INC (AASI)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (91%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); COST OF LIVING (68%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (63%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CARL CHEN (80%); BARRY SEDLIK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



572 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Unemployment Drops To 4.1% in December

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The state's unemployment rate dipped to 4.1 percent in December, capping a year in which the rate never topped 5 percent, the state Labor Department reported last week.
The December rate matched the 4.1 percent national unemployment rate, a goal Governor Whitman has set for the state. It also matched February for the lowest rate of 1999. Before that, New Jersey unemployment had not dipped to that level since July 1989. 
 "What's nice about it is we're not seeing radical shifts one way or another," said state Labor Commissioner Mel Gelade. "Unemployment has been rather steadily going down, and the job growth has been accelerating."
State employers also added 9,400 jobs to their payrolls in December, seasonally adjusted, making it the year's best month for job growth. That brought 1999's job creation total to 65,300, a strong figure but still below 1998, when 76,200 jobs were created.
The good economic news from the unemployment front came two days after a report released by the Association for Children of New Jersey and New Jersey Policy Perspective concluded that the past decade's boom times have largely been enjoyed by the richest 20 percent of New Jersey households.
That report, which used data by two Washington-based research organizations, said 80 percent of New Jersey residents made less money or saw no gains from the late 1980's to the late 1990's after salaries were adjusted for inflation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



573 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Shopping Mall Planned for Newark

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS

 BODY:
Plans are underway to construct a K-Mart in downtown Newark, which would be the first department store to open in the city since the 1967 riots.
A shopping mall with K-Mart as the anchor would be built on an 11.7-acre tract on Springfield Avenue in the Central Ward. Construction could begin within six months for the discount department store, and for a restaurant. 
 The $14 million mall is expected to provide 350 full-time jobs, Mr. Codey said.
The project is being put together by New Community Corporation, formed in 1968 to help rebuild Newark, and Resurrection Urban Development Corporation, an arm of the Metropolitan Baptist Church. Prudential Insurance, which has invested heavily in the city, is expected to provide a loan for the project.
 KAREN DeMASTERS 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KM (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW COMMUNITY CORP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CITIES (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



574 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: THROGS NECK;
Longtime Dumping Ground Will Soon Hear 'Fore!'

BYLINE: By DAVID CRITCHELL

 BODY:
A long-brewing plan to put a championship golf course in dormant Ferry Point Park has crossed its final hurdle, with the City Planning Commission voting unanimously in favor of the $22 million project.
Better known as a dumping ground for cars and debris, the former city landfill, in the shadows of the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge, will be the site of an 18-hole public golf course, complete with a driving range, pro shop, restaurant and walkways on the waterfront. 
 "This will be a high-quality private club experience for the public," said J. Pierre Gagne, the developer. Mr. Gagne teamed up with Jack Nicklaus to plan the course, which offers stunning views of the East River, Long Island Sound and the Manhattan skyline.
Mr. Gagne and his partners, known collectively as Ferry Point Partners, were granted a 35-year license by the city to develop, maintain and operate the site. They have pledged to spend at least $22.4 million to convert 222 of the park's 418 acres into the golf course and other recreational areas.
Under the details of the agreement, which was approved by the commission in the last week of December, Ferry Point Partners will install a playground, walking and bicycle paths and manicured green spaces, all for public use. The golf course will be the city's 14th, all publicly owned.
"After you say Bronx Zoo, Yankee Stadium and the Botanical Garden, this will follow as a place to visit in the Bronx," said Edward C. Wallace, a Manhattan lawyer representing Ferry Point Partners.
According to Mr. Gagne and Mr. Wallace, construction is expected to begin this spring. City golfers can expect to tee off on the par 72 championship-level course in summer 2001, they say.
City officials, many of whom have been pushing for the project for years, praised the deal last week.
"This will be a tremendous improvement on what was there and is a sensational gift for the community," said Madeline Provenzano, who is the local City Councilwoman. She cited strong community support for the plan as instrumental in its success.
The idea for building a golf course at the site is not new. It was first proposed by Robert Moses in the 1950's, when he was the parks commissioner. But the project languished and the park has been largely empty and unused since.
The plan regained momentum several years ago, however, as crime fell and the city's economy prospered.
"This is one of the greatest things that's happened in the city in years, and it wouldn't have happened without the rehabilitation of the city," Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern said. "It's a win-win situation." DAVID CRITCHELL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Nicklaus, right, teamed up with J. Pierre Gagne to plan a golf course for Ferry Point Park. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times); (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FERRY POINT PARTNERS (76%); BRONX ZOO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); LANDFILLS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (67%); CRIME RATES (60%); 

PERSON: J PIERRE GAGNE (86%); EDWARD C WALLACE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



575 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
After the Fed, a Large Presence

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
BEFUDDLED by the stock market? Don't understand why shares of unprofitable Internet companies are soaring ever higher while shares of old-economy titans like General Motors go begging?
You are in good company. The man who managed the United States economy for most of the 1980's is as nervous about a bubble as you are. 
 Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, acknowledged as much earlier this month at his office at Rockefeller Center. "My God, everybody in the world owns stock in the dot-coms except me," Mr. Volcker said, a wry smile creasing his face. "I am just behind the curve."
For Wall Street, which looks always ahead, never behind, Mr. Volcker, 72, might seem a part of history. His fourth-floor corner office, overlooking the Rockefeller Center skating rink and featuring a museum's worth of knickknacks and testimonials, hardly dispels that impression.
But at 6-foot-7, with a heavy handshake, Mr. Volcker remains as much a physical presence as ever. And during a 90-minute discussion of the economy, the declining attractiveness of public service, and his recent work heading a commission on Swiss banks and the Holocaust, it became clear that for Mr. Volcker, retirement does not mean full-time fly-fishing.
Most economists agree that Mr. Volcker helped pave the way for the expansion of the 1980's -- and today -- by breaking the double-digit inflation that in 1979 and 1980 threatened to stifle the United States economy. On the day in 1987 that Mr. Volcker announced he would step down as Fed chairman, bonds suffered one of their biggest losses ever on fears that his successor (none other than Alan Greenspan) would not fight inflation as well as Mr. Volcker had.
Since then, Mr. Volcker has successfully adopted the attitude that former Federal Reserve chairmen, like former presidents, should be seen but not heard, especially on matters of policy. He worked as chairman of Wolfensohn & Company, a boutique New York investment bank, until 1996, when it was acquired by Bankers Trust.
Last month, Mr. Volcker made news once again, when the international commission he headed announced the results of its audit of Swiss banks that accepted deposits from Holocaust victims. The commission's report found that the banks threw up unnecessary obstacles to victims and families trying to claim their assets. But it exonerated the banks of charges that they systematically destroyed records to keep the victims' assets for themselves.
Mr. Volcker agreed to lead the commission only because of an appeal from an old friend who happened to head the Swiss central bank. Completing the report, which was praised by both the banks and Jewish organizations that brought the issue to light three years ago, was often frustrating, he said.
"A few weeks before the report was due to come out, I thought we'd never get a consensus, and I was prepared to put it out whether we had a consensus or not," he said. But once the banks and Jewish groups recognized that he was determined to issue the report with or without their agreement, they decided to participate to ensure their views would be heard.
The commission discovered 54,000 accounts of possible Holocaust victims that could be worth as much as $1.3 billion. His auditors, Mr. Volcker said, "found as close an approximation to the truth as it's possible to find after all this time."
With the report released, Mr. Volcker has moved on to smaller projects, including advising on the bailout of Japan's Long-Term Credit Bank. He has also departed from his tradition of public nonpartisanship to support Bill Bradley for president. Mr. Volcker explained that because he had pushed Mr. Bradley to run, he felt he should openly commit to the Bradley campaign.
Still, Mr. Volcker, one of a generation of public servants who came to Washington after World War II and viewed working for the federal government as the highest calling, admitted that even he has grown cynical.
"I was so proud of being in government all my life," he said. But now, "public service at almost all levels has come into various disrepute. You don't get the people in government that you should."
They don't know the rewards of public service that they are missing, he said. Even successful corporate leaders "don't have the same feeling of challenge and satisfaction."
Meanwhile, Mr. Volcker is trying -- and failing -- to make sense of the market. "You obviously have a kind of speculative fever," he said. "I think it is a kind of casino. It's all the rage, trading certificates that have no intrinsic value."
Does he see a bust on the horizon? "There's enormous confidence today, but it can evaporate very quickly for reasons that are not very clear," he said.
And what about inflation? Mr. Volcker remains as hawkish as if he had never left the Federal Reserve, dismissing suggestions that inflation is dead: "I'm never ready to say inflation is not a problem. If it's not a problem, it's a potential problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Volcker, 72, has been busy of late. The former Fed chairman was in Zurich last month, where a commission he headed released a report on Holocaust victims' Swiss bank accounts. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ZURICH (79%); 

COMPANY: WOLFENSOHN & CO (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BONDS (74%); HOLOCAUST (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); SPORT FISHING (51%); 

PERSON: VOLCKER, PAUL A ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



576 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Old Companies, New Stocks: But Will Outside Investors Bite?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
TWO big mutual life insurance companies -- John Hancock and Metropolitan Life -- are preparing to distribute millions of shares of stock to their policyholders and sell millions more to the public.
Neither stock is expected to roar out of the starting gates.
But analysts say that shares in both companies should provide investors with gradual gains as well as dividends. 
 "We're not recommending John Hancock and we probably won't recommend Met Life because we want our investors to see a very good growth rate of 40 to 50 percent a year, and the insurance stocks don't offer that," said Gerald R. Eddy, a senior editor at the Institute for Econometric Research, a company in Deerfield Beach, Fla., that tracks initial public offerings. "But over the long haul people will probably do fine with these stocks."
The John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, which is to become John Hancock Financial Services Inc., has scheduled its offering for Thursday as it reorganizes as a shareholder-owned company. The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's initial public offering is expected in late March. Another big mutual, the Prudential Insurance Company of America, and several Canadian mutuals are also planning to go public.
The companies will be unleashing a flood of shares on the market.
John Hancock, for example, plans to issue 331.7 million shares, including 229.7 million to its policyholders, the formal owners of the company, in compensation for their contributions through premium payments.
Met Life expects to issue more than 812 million shares, including about 576 million to its policyholders.
Most companies that have gone public in the last few years have issued 5 million to 10 million shares, though most were start-ups. Both big insurers have been doing business for more than a century.
Most policyholders will be allowed to take their compensation in cash or stock. Depending on other investment considerations, policyholders may find the stock more attractive because unlike the cash, the stock is not taxable until it is sold.
Outside investors are not expected to stampede for these stocks. Both companies have relatively low returns on equity and are likely to be priced at close to book value, while many competitors are already trading at 1.5 times their book value and better.
Moreover, shares in the entire field of financial services, including banks and brokerage firms, are depressed because of lackluster performance and rising interest rates.
All this means that companies with great brand names will be available relatively cheaply, but that noticeable early gains are not likely.
Some institutional investors are required to allocate some of their money to dividend-producing shares, so they are sure to be among the buyers of the converted life insurers.
"But people who look at Internet stocks are not going to be real interested in these companies," said Randall Roth, a senior analyst at Renaissance Capital in Greenwich, Conn., which provides research for institutional investors and runs the IPO Plus Aftermarket fund.
Even so, John Hancock expects to raise about $1.8 billion. And Met Life is anticipating about $5.6 billion, which would make its initial offering the country's richest ever, surpassing the previous record-holder, United Parcel Service, which raised $5.47 billion in November.
Met Life also expects to instantly become the company with the largest number of shareholders, perhaps 10 million, compared with the current leader, Lucent Technologies, which has about 4.6 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (94%); METLIFE INC (84%); JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (69%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (68%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS LIFE INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



577 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Robert A. Loest;
IPS Millennium

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
NOBODY can accuse Robert A. Loest, a self-proclaimed futurist, of missing the big picture with his radically esoteric investment strategy. "Instead of looking at where we are in the economic cycle to decide which sectors to invest in," said Mr. Loest, who runs the $198.7 million IPS Millennium fund, "we look at where civilization is going."
If that description seems a mite abstract, well, the fund's returns show that its results are concrete. It returned 53.4 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Jan. 14, compared with 29.8 percent a year for its peer group of large growth funds, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. 
 IPS Millennium holds 67 stocks, most of them high-flying technology issues. But he balances that by investing a portion of the fund in staid utilities, banks and other, often high-dividend-paying stocks.
Mr. Loest's take on business and markets is quite different from that of most money managers. "We view the economy as an ecosystem, like an oak forest or a tropical coral reef," he said from his office in Knoxville, Tenn. These days, he said, the most successful businesses are those that cooperate extensively with other companies. "Cooperation, not competition, is the ruling paradigm," said Mr. Loest, 56. "Any time one company makes a change, the effects are felt by every other company, like an ecosystem."
That perspective is not surprising for Mr. Loest, who holds a doctoral degree in biology and worked in basic research until the mid-1970's, when he left the field rather than perform experiments on animals. He then worked as a blacksmith until 1985, when a financial planner for whom he shod horses urged him to consider a money management career.
As befits his iconoclastic stance, Mr. Loest disregards company earnings, growth rates, intrinsic worth and other commonly used valuation measures. "The value of companies in the new information economy depends more on their degree of connectivity than on the company's internal assets," he said. Connectivity, he explained, is the degree to which they influence other companies and the depth of their relationships. So, Mr. Loest said, he looks at the number of continuing relationships a company has, as well as the level of dominance it has in its market.
He cited Yahoo, one of the fund's top five holdings. Its worth is minimal according to many valuation methodologies, he said, but extensive in light of all the relationships it has formed with other businesses.
The fund looks at all but the very smallest companies, seeking out those dominant ones with "the most highly developed ecosystem built around what they do," Mr. Loest said. This often means those that have created the technological standards around which other companies operate, like Microsoft and Cisco Systems.
Next, he measures connectivity by assessing a company's marketing relationships, joint development projects, products and services. Mr. Loest is especially keen on companies with what he calls disruptive technology or business models that can overturn established dominant companies. He cited Amazon.com, which threw the retail book market for a loop.
Prices do matter. Typically, he said, he waits to buy shares in companies only after they fall 30 percent to 50 percent from their 12-month high. Mr. Loest often sells a stock when it has fallen more than its peers for three to four consecutive quarters and no one seems to know why.
He originally bought shares of Yahoo in July 1997, at a split-adjusted price of $6.50 apiece. He added shares last summer, when the price dropped to $135, less than half its 12-month high.
"Yahoo lets people and businesses connect in totally new ways," Mr. Loest said. "I view it as the dominant stock in its space." Its only close competitor, America Online, which the fund also holds, is pursuing a very different business model, he said. AOL is restricting its content to proprietary products and trying to get as much of it as possible, as evidenced by its plans to acquire Time Warner, which has had a hard time adapting to the Internet, Mr. Loest noted.
Yahoo management is innovative, he said, adding calendars, address lists and other personal services to its search-engine functions. "They looked at how people were using the product," he said, "and were imaginative in adding features." Yahoo shares closed Friday at $351.9375.
The fund's biggest position, at 6.7 percent of assets, is JDS Uniphase, of San Jose, Calif., which makes fiber optic transmission components. The technology is critical, Mr. Loest said, as the world becomes highly connected through fiber optics and wireless data transmission. The company makes most of the equipment that lets fiber optic strands transmit data, dominating its market, he said.
JDS Uniphase is the dominant company within its "ecosystem," Mr. Loest said, as it has acquired most of its competitors. Last week, it agreed to buy E-Tek Dynamics, a San Jose, Calif.-based rival, for stock valued at $15 billion. He originally bought shares in Uniphase in September 1998 for $22 apiece. Shares closed Friday at $233.125.
One of his favorite electric utilities is Calpine, also of San Jose, which builds miniature power plants using combined cycle natural gas turbines. It is a relatively straightforward deregulation play. The plants are so small and efficient, Mr. Loest said, that office building complexes, and eventually individuals, will be able to disconnect from the main power grid. They produce electricity for about 1 cent per kilowatt hour, compared with 4 to 6 cents for traditional electric companies, he said.
Mr. Loest originally bought shares in June 1998 for $9 each. They closed Friday at $87.1875.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Loest, who left biology to become a blacksmith, then a money manager, looks at a company's relationships in determining its value. (Wade Alexander Payne for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "IPS Millennium"
Category -- Large growth
Net assets -- $198.7 million
Inception -- January 1995
Manager -- Robert A. Loest since inception
Minimum purchase -- $1,000
Portfolio turnover -- 88%
3-year annualized return through Jan. 14 -- 53.4%
Category average -- 29.8%
 
Sector breakdown
 
Utilities: 19.1%
Financials: 11.1%
Services: 9.4%
Technology: 51.5%
Other: 8.9%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 1.40%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (75%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: IPS MILLENNIUM MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: IPS MILLENNIUM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); TENNESSEE, USA (75%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (87%); BONDS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); DIVIDENDS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); BIOLOGY (72%); ANIMALS (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (64%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: LOEST, ROBERT A ROBERT A LOEST (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



578 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Federal Budgeteers Ponder A Multiple-Choice Surplus

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LET the budget games bigger and more rancorous than ever -- begin
Congress will return to town this week, and the first order of business for the Republican majority will be to start sparring with President Clinton and the Democrats over what to do with the tax revenue that is flooding into the Treasury in quantities substantially greater than either party imagined even a few months ago. 
 Here is a reader's guide to Round One: How Big Is My Surplus?
Everyone agrees that the federal budget surplus is growing, but over the next few weeks there will be a complicated and jargon-ridden argument over just how large it will be. The Congressional Budget Office will go first, releasing its projections on Wednesday. The White House's Office of Management and Budget will follow early next month.
The fiscal situation is so complex this year that the budget office is likely to provide not one set of numbers but three.
The first set will be what budgeteers refer to as a "capped baseline." It will assume that government spending next year will decline, by tens of billions of dollars, to meet a statutory limit set in 1997 but shattered for the last two years. Under this script, spending would then decline again in 2002, and then grow at the rate of inflation for the rest of the decade.
Under the capped baseline, the government's operating surplus -- the portion of the surplus generated by general tax revenue rather than excess Social Security payroll taxes -- could be twice as much over the next 10 years as projected last year. That would mean a non-Social Security surplus of nearly $2 trillion for the decade.
That is a staggering amount of money even by Washington's standards, enough to set off a frenzied rush to enact tax cuts and big new spending programs, or to make an accelerated push toward paying off the national debt.
But Democrats and some Republicans say it is a fantasy, because the spending assumptions behind it are unrealistic. Especially in an election year, they say, there will be no will to slash spending, and given the surplus outlook, no need.
So the budget office will probably set out some alternative projections.
One, favored by many influential Republicans, is known as "without discretionary inflation," or WODI. It assumes no spending cuts this year. But it also assumes a freeze in discretionary spending -- basically everything except Social Security, Medicare and interest payments on the national debt -- for the rest of the decade, without even adjusting for inflation.
WODI could yield a surplus nearly as large as the capped baseline. Most Democrats, however, think WODI is no more realistic, given the overwhelming pressure on both parties to spend more each year. They are hoping the budget office will provide what they call a "discretionary growth baseline," which would assume that spending will grow from its current level at the rate of inflation each year for the rest of the decade.
In essence, Democrats want to bake some spending increases into the budget pie for the next decade, rather than having to fight each year just to keep inflation from eating away at the real value of expenditures. Under those assumptions, the 10-year surplus projection would be hundreds of billions of dollars less than under the other two options.
But the Congressional Budget Office projections, however numerous, will be only the start. Clinton administration officials say their estimates will almost certainly be lower than any of the Congressional numbers.
One reason is that the White House seems likely to start with slightly lower assumptions about economic growth and about the current fiscal year's surplus. Those small differences, multiplied over 10 years, could leave the White House surplus estimates for the decade as much as $400 billion lower than the Congressional surplus estimate, even if both were to work with a capped baseline.
Moreover, the White House is all but certain to build its main surplus estimate around an assumption that spending will at least keep pace with inflation.
CONFUSED? So are some of the people who make a living working with these numbers. But there are a few simple things to keep in mind as fiscal policy plays out this year.
First, by any measure, the projected non-Social Security surplus will be huge, providing an opportunity for a real national debate, in an election year no less, about how the fruits of the current prosperity should be invested.
Second, the numbers could change radically for the worse if the economy turns down or the stock market plunges.
Third, the two sides have largely agreed to take off the table the entire surplus generated by Social Security -- $2 trillion over 10 years by last year's projection -- and to use that money only for debt reduction or to overhaul the retirement system.
And fourth, the likelihood of political gridlock in Washington this year is so high that you will almost certainly have an opportunity to try to make sense of all this again next year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); MEDICARE (70%); INFLATION (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



579 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
States Cut Death Tax To Keep Rich at Home

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
ACROSS the nation, state legislatures have revised laws on gift and estate taxes, bringing them in line with federal law, and cheering lawyers who have seen an exodus of affluent older clients from traditionally high-tax states like New York to traditionally low-tax states like Florida.
"Now there is no reason to move to Florida to avoid transfer taxes," said Sanford J. Schlesinger, partner and head of the wills and estate department of the New York law firm Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. 
 The issue, which is a complicated one, works like this: At the federal level there is a unified tax credit for gifts and estates totaling $675,000 this year. That means that gifts and estates up to that level are not taxed. Above that level, gifts and estates are taxed at rates of 37 percent to 55 percent, depending on their size.
In addition, many states levy their own gift and estate taxes. But state estate taxes of up to 16 percent can also be claimed as a credit on federal returns -- and reduce the federal taxes dollar for dollar. What this means to the estate is that the combined federal and state taxes are no greater than the federal tax would have been alone. Because states are able to levy a 16 percent estate tax at no additional cost to their taxpayers, the tax has become known as a "sop up" or "sponge" tax, since it just sops up the federal credit.
Even Nevada, which has no income tax and previously had no estate tax, thereby attracting many retirees from neighboring California, has enacted a sop-up tax, Mr. Schlesinger said.
New York had a graduated gift and estate tax that went as high as 21 percent, costing the estates of affluent residents an extra 5 percent beyond the federal taxes. But New York has repealed its gift tax, effective Jan. 1, and changed its estate tax law, effective Feb. 1, making both the rates and the ceilings conform to federal law -- creating a sop-up tax.
"This is a very salutary change for New York," said Jonathan Herlands, partner in charge of the trusts and estate department of the New York law firm Janvey, Gordon, Herlands, Randolph, Rosenberg & Cox. "It has put New York and Florida on a level playing field."
Through Jan. 31 in New York, the ceiling at which estates become taxable is $300,000. The estates of a husband and wife totaling $1.3 million would be free of federal taxes, but could owe $57,000 in state taxes, Mr. Schlesinger said. "People did move to Florida on the concept this was a tax they could avoid easily," he said.
Mr. Schlesinger called New York "the last guest at the wedding" in changing its estate-tax law to conform to the federal law, joining 35 other states with sop-up taxes.
FOURTEEN states, including Connecticut, still have estate taxes that exceed the federal tax credit, imposing extra costs on their residents. And four states -- Connecticut, Tennessee, North Carolina and Louisiana -- and Puerto Rico still levy gift taxes, for which there is no federal tax credit.
Mr. Herlands predicted these states, too, would soon make their laws conform. New York saw a "hemorrhaging of wealth," as affluent people left the state to minimize the tax burden on their heirs, he said. "Now they are not running in droves to Florida," he continued, and their contributions to the New York economy and the income taxes they pay should more than offset the estate and gift taxes the state is forgoing.
Will people who have already moved to Florida return?
"I think once they get down there, they are seduced by the weather," Mr. Herlands replied.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Exit Strategy"
Where a person lives and makes a gift and when he or she dies can make a sizable difference in taxes owed. Here are some examples.
 
GIFT TAXES
A person who has used none of her unified credit for gift and estate taxes makes a gift of $300,000 after Jan. 1, 2000.
 
Residency: New York
TAXES DUE
Federal: $0
State: $0
 
Residency: Connecticut
TAXES DUE
Federal: $0
State: $13,500
 
If the gift is $500,000 and none of the unified credit has been used.
 
Residency: New York
TAXES DUE
Federal: $0
State: $0
 
Residency: Connecticut
TAXES DUE
Federal: $0
State: $25,500
 
ESTATE TAXES
A New Yorker who has used none of his unified credit dies in 2000 with a taxable estate of $1.5 million.
 
TOTAL TAXES DUE
Jan. 31 or earlier: $368,350
Feb. 1 or later: $335,250
(Source: Sanford J. Schlesinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (84%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION ESTATE TAX (97%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LAWYERS (90%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GIFT TAX (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); 

PERSON: SANFORD J SCHLESINGER (69%); JONATHAN HERLANDS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



580 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Unfurling a Battle Cry And Its Last Hurrah

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C.

 BODY:
THE leading Republican presidential candidates might sound timid to non-Southerners when they insist that the people of South Carolina should decide whether the Confederate flag should fly above the State Capitol.
After all, opinion polls have repeatedly shown that around 60 percent of South Carolinians have already decided they want the battle flag taken down or moved elsewhere, leaving the national and state flags on the dome. The decision really rests with a handful of Republicans in the State Legislature who control not only the flag's future, but also some of the votes the candidates need in the state's presidential primary next month. 
 But Gov. George W. Bush and Senator John McCain, who instantly defer to South Carolinians on the issue of the flag, may know exactly what they are doing in refusing to express an opinion. To many of the state's voters and public officials, particularly the Republican majority, the flag represents neither slavery nor a hazily remembered mixture of Southern courage and gentility. Instead, it flies primarily as a warning beacon, reminding the rest of the country that South Carolina brooks no interference in its affairs.
Running deep in the state, particularly in white rural areas, is a prickly, almost primordial sense of independence and insularity that resents any meddling. South Carolina is full of public officials who believe that the Civil War was fought not over slavery or a way of life, but over federal trespass on a very lofty ideal of state sovereignty. For some of them, this may be a last chance to re-enact the ancient struggle over sovereignty that haunts the state 140 years later.
"My ancestors fought for the question of who was supreme, the federal or the state government," said State Senator Glenn McConnell, a Charleston Republican who is a leader of the pro-flag forces. "They felt like South Carolina freely went into the union, and had the right to opt out, like an independent country. So no one from outside the state is going to have any effect on this issue."
AS pressure to move the flag increases, chiefly from black groups, local business leaders and Northern Democrats, tempers have flared, with legislators saying they will never budge as long as the N.A.A.C.P. continues its "outside" economic boycott of the state. The issue has now become a staple of the presidential campaign, and whenever there is a denunciation of the flag by one of the Democratic candidates -- or by President Clinton, who weighed in last week -- resistance to a compromise seems to grow, although compromise appears inevitable.
Seeing the Confederate flag as a contemporary banner of defiant states' rights may sound like a high-minded evasion of a history that is steeped in slavery. But whether they realize it or not, Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain -- both advised by flag supporters -- are paying homage to a tradition of stubbornness that is well known to students of the state's history. Carolina colonists staged the continent's first revolution in 1719, overthrowing the English power structure known as the Lords Proprietors when the nobles were unable to protect the residents against raids by Indians and pirates. A Charleston merchant, Christopher Gadsden, designed the Revolutionary War's famous naval flag with its "Don't Tread on Me" slogan and coiled rattlesnake; some South Carolina militias carried a similar flag into battle during the Civil War.
"This goes back to the first settlers, who were from the English-speaking Caribbean," said Walter Edgar, director of the Institute for Southern Studies at the University of South Carolina, who wrote "South Carolina: A History" (University of South Carolina Press, 1998). "They were a bunch of pretty tough, driven individuals, used to having their own way, and if anyone interfered, they were eliminated."
Dr. Edgar said it was no coincidence that South Carolina was the first state to secede in 1861, partly to preserve slavery but also to assert its independence from Washington. Since then, the state has also resisted women's suffrage, integration and even the enrollment of female cadets in the Citadel, the military college in Charleston. It is the only state without an official holiday marking the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
"It's all about controlling your own destiny," Dr. Edgar said. "This is a state that has always believed it should determine its own affairs."
Those who have explored public opinion on the flag have no trouble finding the ideological descendants of those first willful colonists. David Woodard, a Clemson University political scientist who has supervised polls on the flag, says resentment motivates most of the 36 percent of those surveyed who want to keep the flag flying.
"What they told us is they dislike being held hostage by the boycott, so they're just going to dig their heels in more deeply," Professor Woodard said. "I got the feeling that most of them don't even have a particular allegiance to the Confederate battle flag, but if some Northerner is telling them to take it down, that's why they want to keep it up."
Of course, the first voices demanding the flag's removal have not been from outsiders, but from black South Carolinians, who see the flag as a symbol of racism rather than independence. At last Monday's enormous anti-flag rally, which drew nearly 50,000 people, speaker after speaker made the point that the boycott and the protests were organized within the state.
MANY blacks say they suspect the word "outsider" is actually aimed at them, though their ancestors have been in the state since 1670 and often outnumbered whites. In the 1960's segregationists often blamed "outside agitators" for sit-ins and protests, refusing to acknowledge that the civil rights movement had roots in their state; references to the outsiders in the anti-flag boycott have a similar ring for many people.
"What they really mean by all this talk about states' rights is that whites don't like for blacks to tell them what they ought to do," said the Rev. Dr. William P. Diggs, pastor of the Trinity Baptist Church in Florence, who gave the closing benediction at the rally. "Whatever they do, they want to make it appear that it's their idea to do it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many blacks see the symbol of the Confederacy as a reminder of slavery. (The State); A rally protesting the Confederate flag on the Capitol in Columbia, S.C., last month; dissenters in foreground. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SLAVERY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BOYCOTTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



581 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
Residential Beachhead for Landing Gentry

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
As the saying goes, real estate is all about location, location, location. And Harlem has not been on that radar screen for decades.
But in what may be yet another a sign of the booming economy extending its reach into one of the city's poorer communities, the Corcoran Group, which proclaims itself New York's "premier luxury residential real estate" company, is planning to open an office in Harlem. 
 The move, which is scheduled to take place in a few months, would make Corcoran the first of Manhattan's top residential real estate companies to stake out a beachhead north of 110th Street, according to industry analysts.
"We have been doing a lot of business in Harlem," said Barbara Corcoran, the president and founder, in explaining the decision. "I keep watching the numbers, and I see the numbers increase in both quantity and the price."
"I just want to get in there before someone else does," added Ms. Corcoran, who said she was considering sites on upper Fifth Avenue and along mid-125th Street.
The Corcoran Group, which has 500 brokers worldwide and generates nearly $2 billion in sales annually, has 10 offices in New York, in neighborhoods like Greenwich Village. It focuses on renting luxury apartments and selling coops that often fetch above $1 million. Ms. Corcoran said five brokers have already agreed to transfer to the new office.
Although the company could not provide exact figures for its own sales in Harlem, its agents deal with dozens of properties in the neighborhood every year, she said.
Real estate experts say that spacious houses near Marcus Garvey Park in central Harlem, along Fifth Avenue in Hamilton Heights and West 141st and 145th Streets were being bought by people moving from more expensive and crowded areas.
It is not unusual that Corcoran Group agents have clients in TriBeCa or SoHo "who trades their loft for a whole house in Harlem," Ms. Corcoran said. "TriBeCa has already been discovered. They feel like Harlem is going to be the next place."
Ms. Corcoran suggests that any skeptics take a stroll along Hamilton Terrace. The street, she said, is lined with "beautifully maintained rows of town houses, all occupied by Wall Street brokers who hop the train downtown." JAYSON BLAIR
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A building at 225 West 112th Street in Harlem is listed by Corcoran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CORCORAN GROUP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORCORAN GROUP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); 

PERSON: BARBARA CORCORAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



582 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
In a Time of Plenty, The Poor Are Still Poor

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE drumbeat of good economic news is becoming so familiar that the nation might be excused for taking its prosperity for granted. The United States enjoys the lowest unemployment rate in a generation, stratospheric stock markets, stable prices and even reduced welfare rolls.
But with the current economic expansion about to become the longest on record, there are other, less salutary numbers worth reflecting on. They suggest that those at the bottom of the economic ladder are not benefiting much from the boom and, by some measures, are falling even farther behind. 
 The degree of the problem remains subject to debate, but it is substantial and persistent enough that some analysts, particularly on the left, now see it not just as a social problem but as a potential threat to the economy's long-term prospects. And it is striking enough that politicians across the spectrum feel compelled to address it as they set out their election-year agendas.
The poverty rate in 1998, the most recent year for which data are available, stood at 12.7 percent, according to the Census Bureau. That was down from 15.1 percent in 1993, but virtually the same as at the peak of the last expansion, in 1989. And it is worse than 1969, the year the previous record-setting expansion ended, when 12.1 percent of Americans lived in poverty.
Nor is all the news on income good. Average income for families in the bottom fifth of the income scale fell 5 percent between the late 1970's and the late 1990's, after adjusting for inflation.
By contrast, income among the top fifth of families rose 33 percent, according to the Economic Policy Institute and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, liberal research organizations.
Last, the median value of assets owned by families with incomes less than $25,000 -- including everything from bank accounts and stocks to homes and cars -- fell between 1995 and 1998, according to the Federal Reserve, while families with higher incomes saw the value of those assets surge.
On the plus side, the gap between rich and poor may no longer be widening. The government's most widely used measures of income inequality were basically unchanged through the latter part of the 1990's. And wage growth is picking up after a long period of decline and then stagnation.
Nonetheless, in an era of abundance, the continuing disparities are focusing new attention on how to deal with inequality. And while there remain sharp ideological differences, conservatives for the most part have joined liberals in acknowledging that the issue matters.
In the presidential primary campaign, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas talks of a "compassionate conservatism" that leaves no one behind. In Washington, President Clinton plans to use his State of the Union address this week to focus on how the nation can better use the bounty of these good times to help those at the bottom.
"As a society, we must answer an increasingly urgent question," Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, said last week. "What can we do to close the widening gap in income and skills that leaves too many Americans unable to participate fully in the American Dream?"
Conservatives still argue that inequality and poverty statistics should be viewed in light of the extraordinary ability that Americans have to move up the income ladder, and that fewer people get left permanently behind than the numbers would suggest. Still, they are increasingly acknowledging the persistence of poverty and inequality to buttress their case that government solutions to problems like inferior schools and teenage pregnancy should give way to market-based approaches and an emphasis on personal responsibility.
"If you can read and write only at a third-grade level, the economy has to get extremely strong for there to be a market for you at the minimum wage or any wage," said John C. Weicher, director of urban policy studies at the Hudson Institute, a conservative research organization. "And while the economy can make a difference for many people, there are a lot of people for whom the economy is not the problem."
THERE is also an emerging view among conservatives that the most important gap is not in income, but in wealth. In their view, the nation is becoming divided between people who are able to save, invest and build wealth over the long run and those who are not. The solution, they say, rests in steps like overhauling Social Security to create private investment accounts for all workers, giving everyone a chance to own capital and have a direct stake in the system.
"The movement toward becoming one nation that can invest and one nation that cannot invest has potential consequences for social and political stability down the road," said Michael Tanner, director of health and welfare studies at the Cato Institute, a conservative research group. Policy debates over wealth and inequality still tend to be framed by liberals, who stress fairness and social responsibility. But liberals, too, are increasingly focusing on the economic implications.
Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, cited the protests last month at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle and a recent Harris poll for Business Week that found that 75 percent of Americans believe the gains of the "new" economy are being distributed unequally.
"We've certainly banked a lot of our economic, political and social capital on this notion that the global, technology-driven economy is one that all Americans should buy into," Mr. Bernstein said. "That kind of poll result, the events in Seattle and this gap between overall growth and the economic fortunes of the middle class really threatens that contract."
Evidence linking an economy's long-run potential to its success in ameliorating inequality is still sketchy. But economists are now starting to generate research suggesting that if "inequality leads you to underinvest in the lives of the have-nots," Mr. Bernstein said, "then ultimately that can be a drag on economic growth, and that's a situation we may ultimately have to face if we don't wrestle this problem to the ground."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Everywhere in the nation, the economic boom has bypassed some Americans. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Unequal Expansion for All?"
As the national economy continues to extend its longest period of sustained growth, many benefit, but poverty persists.
 
While the nation's poverty rate has declined, it has yet to fall below the 12% barrier, as it did in previous economic expansions.
 
During this most recent expansion the income growth of the wealthiest Americans has far outpaced that of the nation's poorest.
 
Chart shows percent of Americans below the poverty level and ratio of average family income for wealthiest 5% as compared to the incomes of the poorest 20%
(Sources: Economic Policy Institute, Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); LIBERALISM (88%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); CENSUS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



583 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
The Magic Mountain

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This week the Swiss ski resort of Davos, once the home of a sanitarium, will play host once again to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum -- a unique gathering of the world's business and political elite. I last attended five years ago, even though the forum has officially declared me a G.L.T. (that's Global Leader of Tomorrow -- hold the mayo), which I think means that I have a standing invitation. But I'm sure that my first impression will be similar. After all, the sight of all those wealthy and important people in the same place, with scores of famous intellectuals in attendance, surely inspires the same thought in even the most cynical of observers:
Come the revolution, we shoot these people first. 
 O.K., not really. But the scene at Davos -- the superrich and their trophy wives schmoozing with officials elected and appointed, the lavish parties thrown by third-world nations, and so on -- represents a sort of distilled essence of everything that people love to hate about the New World Order. Those on both left and right who view globalization as a sort of conspiracy by rootless cosmopolitans against the rest of us could hardly have asked for a better spectacle.
As it happens, I am one of those who believe that globalization is overwhelmingly, though not entirely, a good thing. So the instinctive negative reaction that even someone like me feels toward "Davos Man" (a phrase coined by the political scientist Samuel Huntington) suggests just how serious a public relations problem now faces the global economy in which Davos Man flourishes.
The reality is that globalization makes the world a richer place, but the wealth it creates goes disproportionately to two sorts of people. On one side are those who benefit from vastly improved access to technology and capital -- which is to say, workers in developing countries. On the other are those in advanced countries who, directly or indirectly, have technology and capital to sell -- which means the rich and the highly educated. Largely left out of the party, possibly even made worse off, are those who fall into neither category. Most conspicuously, competition from those newly productive third-world workers is one, though probably not the most important, of the reasons that real wages of many American workers have stagnated or even declined over the last 25 years.
It is, to be honest, a picture that contains some shadows. Still, if you ask about the overall effect on the human condition, globalization has been a huge force for good. Just ask the South Koreans, who have telescoped three centuries of European progress into the last 40 years; or even ask the Bangladeshis, who remain desperately poor but whose export industries have kept them from sliding into Malthusian catastrophe. You could say -- and I would -- that globalization, driven not by human goodness but by the profit motive, has done far more good for far more people than all the foreign aid and soft loans ever provided by well-intentioned governments and international agencies.
But in saying this, I know from experience that I have guaranteed myself a barrage of hate mail. For there is another kind of person -- Seattle Man? -- who is passionately committed to a simpler view, without any ambiguities. Seattle Man believes that globalization is purely and simply a way for capitalists to exploit the world's workers. He contrasts the wealth and privilege of global movers and shakers with the poverty of sweatshop workers, and gets angry if you try to suggest that those sweatshops are better than the alternative (let alone that they might, as in South Korea, be the first step on the way to first-world living standards). Seattle Man, in short, does not believe that most of the world is still poor because development is hard to do; he is looking for villains. And in places like Davos he has found putative villains who might have been chosen by Central Casting.
Now with some exceptions the people who will be at Davos aren't really villains: they are no worse, though a lot richer, than the rest of us. But they have an image problem, one that threatens the process of the globalization for which they stand. Will the great and (in some cases) good who meet this week find answers to that problem? Stay tuned. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (55%); NEW WORLD WINES (55%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SKIING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



584 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Party Time -- Holy Grail of Campaign 2000: Money and the Middle;
Most Candidates Squirm to Stay In the Center

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
FORCING Gov. George W. Bush to talk about abortion can be more challenging than getting a child to eat broccoli. He almost never raises the issue -- or even utters the word -- on his own. For months, he ignored his Republican rivals who assailed him relentlessly for his silence. Not until late last week, in the final countdown to tomorrow's Iowa Presidential caucuses, did Mr. Bush, cornered by reporters, offer more emphatic remarks about his opposition to abortion.
He was squirming all the way. 
 It was a far cry from four years ago when Bob Dole, then the Republican frontrunner, happily embraced the issue as he stomped through Iowa. He promised to declare his first day in office "American Family Day" and to immediately reverse executive orders by President Clinton that were "forcing abortion even farther into American life."
Mr. Bush's resistance to being yanked rightward on abortion and other nettlesome social issues reflects a reality of Campaign 2000 that is magnified in Iowa but has set the tone for the entire political season: The major candidates, Republicans and Democrats alike, insist that they will stick to the middle of the road.
The shift is most striking here because this state has a history of driving candidates to extremes in order to prod voters into venturing out on a bitter weekday evening to cast their ballots.
In scrambling to the center, the candidates are parroting Bill Clinton's template from 1992: They don't want to say or do anything that might come back to haunt them in November. The campaigns also perceive a post-partisan, even post-political, dimension in the American electorate. Voters these days don't want harsh partisanship or leaders who vow to upset the status quo.
As a result, Mr. Bush and the challenger he seems most worried about, Senator John McCain, are not that far apart on many issues. Nor are the two Republicans appreciably different from Democrats on some of the big questions. They all favor maintaining, if not increasing, military spending. They oppose new taxes. They want a balanced budget. They advocate free trade. They support the death penalty. Except for Mr. Bradley, they favor welfare reform as it has been pursued in recent years. And just as the two Republicans have had little to say about their anti-abortion positions, the Democrats do not advertise their abortion rights stands.
Still, the contrast from past campaigns in Iowa has been most pronounced with Mr. Bush. His advisers' calculation is that after the debacle with Newt Gingrich and impeachment, Republicans should do nothing that in a general election could marginalize them.
This is not to say that Mr. Bush is truly a moderate. He has a decidedly conservative record on abortion in Texas. Rather, he has walked a tightrope, trying to mask the extent of his conservatism so he can appeal to moderates, while not forsaking the right wing.
All this was on display Friday when Mr. Bush refused to cave in to the demands of his rivals that he apply an anti-abortion litmus test to his running mate or to judicial appointments. His advisers argued that he had said nothing he would have to defend -- and in fact, nothing new at all.
"The whole world has changed," said Ralph Reed, an adviser to Mr. Bush who was the executive director of the Christian Coalition. "As was the case with liberal Democrats in '92, religious conservative Republicans in 2000 are willing to give their candidates a little more rope to maintain their viability in the general election."
Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, a liberal who backs Mr. Gore, put it this way: "There's no real grassroots movements out there like the freeze movements or the arms race back in the 80's. When the economy's good, those kind of issues get pushed to the back burner."
Instead, the campaigns have revived Mr. Clinton's early themes, talking about opportunity and responsibility, improving education and preparing American workers for the global economy. "Everybody is on everybody else's 45-yard line," said Rahm Emanuel, a former senior adviser to Mr. Clinton, "and Clintonism is the paradigm in which everybody is operating on."
The most reliable test of whether a candidate has veered too far to please (or appease) his base is whether he has said or done anything that could resurface in a crippling 30-second commercial in the general election. By that measure, all the candidates this year have at times strayed.
Democratic officials in Washington said they are salivating at the chance to remind voters that Mr. Bush cited Christ as the philosopher-thinker who most influenced him and of his hands-off policy on South Carolina flying the Confederate flag. The Republican Party has already produced a commercial highlighting Mr. Gore's remark that he would favor a litmus test on gays in the military for his appointments to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (He quickly backtracked after a firestorm.)
But it is Mr. Bush who has been most chary of committing a sound bite he would live to regret. As he said here, he intends to out forth "a consistent message throughout in order to win the will of the people." It's true that, in contrast to his inoffensive public persona, Mr. Bush's campaign vigorously promotes its candidate as a true conservative -- if only to conservative voters.
But, characteristically, at a public event in Pella, Iowa, on Thursday, Mr. Bush, when asked by reporters why he did not mention abortion in a speech, said he did so in his private conversations with supporters. That same day, Mr. Gore, following a similar approach, met with gay supporters. But the meeting was not public. And in Burlington, Iowa, on Friday, Mr. Bradley -- who is also vying for support among gays -- was not eager to discuss homosexual rights. To a reporter's question, he offered a curt reply about civil rights and quickly moved on.
It's a far cry from 1988, when then Senator Paul Simon repeatedly invoked Hubert H. Humphrey and Bruce Babbitt pressed Michael S. Dukakis to have the "courage" to talk about tax increases.
John Haskell, a political science professor at Drake University here, argued that the view of Iowa as "a crazy, loony state" was always overblown. The only reason past candidates were more attuned to the fringes of their parties, he said, was that those races were more competitive -- leaving candidates battling over smaller slices of the electorate.
"When you come right down to it," he said, "Iowa is just a boringly moderate state." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGETS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (61%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



585 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: As Rates Surge, Survival Strategies

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
INTEREST rates are rising. And though the effects on both investors and consumers have been muted so far, almost everyone will soon feel the impact, deep and wide.
Put simply, rising rates make life more difficult for just about everybody. For investors, higher rates will make gains in the stock and bond markets trickier than ever to find. And the higher borrowing costs that result from rising rates not only hurt consumers who are shopping for a home, they also pinch companies looking to expand their operations. 
 Even though the Federal Reserve Board has raised the benchmark federal funds rate by three-quarters of one percentage point since June, most bond market strategists believe there are more increases to come. They expect the Fed to raise rates by at least one-half point by April. The next meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee on Feb. 1 and 2 should produce the first of two quarter-point increases, strategists say. From there it is anybody's guess.
While the Fed is moving slowly, bond traders have been quick to take rates on United States Treasury bonds higher. Yields on the benchmark 30-year United States Treasury bond finished at 6.70 percent last week, up significantly from the 5.86 percent seen in late August 1999. The yield on the 10-year Treasury -- at 6.77 -- is now above the average yield of 6.65 percent seen over the entire 1990's.
So far, these rate moves have done nothing to slow the roaring economy or stock market down. This should change. "By the first half of the year, the impact of the tightening will be felt," said Gemma Wright, senior interest rate strategist at Aubrey G. Lanston, an investment firm in New York.
Making this environment even more problematic is the fact that interest rates have been in decline for so long that many investors have forgotten what rising rates can do to their portfolios. Before the most recent bout of increases, the last time the Fed raised rates was in February 1994 when federal funds stood at 3 percent. By the following May, the rate was at 6 percent and bonds were in the midst of their worst year since 1927. Stocks basically treaded water.
Obviously, investors must rethink their strategies -- or at least their tactics. In the broadest terms, many of the investments that made money in a declining rate environment will no longer do so when rates are rising. And because increasing interest rates will be more harmful to companies whose financial footing is shakier than those on solid ground, hard-nosed risk assessment of a company whose stock or bond looks attractive is crucial today.
Among consumers, who have been happy to amass large amounts of debt, a scaling back may be in order. This is particularly true for those who borrowed at rates that fluctuate with the benchmarks.
And those planning charitable donations may want to check with their accountants, too.
For more on how to survive and prosper in a rising interest rate world, the following six articles guide investors and consumers through what is likely to be a whole new ballgame. GRETCHEN MORGENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by David G. Klein)
 
Graph: "Treasuries"
Recently, bond markets have anticipated interest tart moves by the Federal Reserve.
Graph shows the 30-year bond, 5-year bond, and federal funds target rate. (Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (53%); UNITED STATES TREASURY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TREASURY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



586 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Stocks: Avoid Banks And Fasten Seat Belts

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The prospect of rising interest rates has caused lots of fulminating and gyrating in the stock market over the last few months. Despite a palpable increase in volatility, major market indexes have kept moving higher.
The market's continued advance therefore sidesteps the question of what -- if anything -- investors should do to hedge against, or take advantage of, an increase in short-term interest rates of anywhere from half a percentage point to a full percentage point by the end of the second quarter. 
 Despite the consensus that rates are on the rise, few analysts advocate radical changes in investment strategy. "We think interest rates will rise by at least half a percentage point," from current levels, said Frederick B. Taylor, vice chairman and chief investment officer at the United States Trust Company.
Mr. Taylor challenges the idea that "you should do anything if it you think the increase is temporary and you are a long-term investor. In our judgment, this is likely to be a temporary move."
Still, there may be sectors that should be avoided. Historically, for instance, rising rates have not been friendly to financial stocks.
But many regional and money center bank stocks have been hammered over the last year. And that slide may limit the dimension of any further decline.
"There are some very, very low price-earnings ratios among financial stocks, which means you have a valuation cushion," said Douglas R. Cliggott, domestic equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities.
"But it is very unusual for a bank stock to go up when the discount rate is going up and its earnings growth rate is slowing down," he added.
Mr. Cliggott, who says he is very underweight in financial stocks, has both pared and rejiggered his model stock portfolio to best exploit opportunities in a rising rate environment. "We want maximum exposure to the global recovery, and are looking at companies with a lot of sales outside of the United States," he said.
Mr. Cliggott says "you will see a lot stronger earnings growth this year than last" among "industrial companies that had their exports hammered and pricing pummeled, energy companies that are benefitting from higher commodity prices and some of the big global consumer goods companies."
If the rise in rates is sharper and of longer duration than most expect, investors would be wise to cast a more skeptical eye over corporate balance sheets, as interest costs of highly leveraged companies would rise, too.
Greg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, agrees that rates are likely to rise, but remains bullish on the stock market: 75 percent of his model portfolio is committed to equities.
Still, there are sectors he does not like because of the likelihood of rising rates, a list that includes financial services and housing stocks, which would suffer as potential home-buyers find it costlier to borrow money. And he says rising rates may have an impact on some housing-related retailers, like Home Depot.
But unlike Mr. Cligott, who also underweights technology stocks, Mr. Smith does not see bad things happening if interest rates continue to rise.
"I am very positive on software companies," he said. "I don't think people understand that as companies get past Y2K they will be implementing new capabilities. Software companies, everyone from Computer Associates to Compuware to BEA Software, will have more demand than they can satisfy."
Mr. Taylor at United States Trust also likes technology, even though he admits the stocks are overpriced and "likely to remain overpriced" even if interest rates go up.
"We want to buy some of those industrial consumer-oriented businesses that are users of technology that may not be as expensive as the technology stocks," he said. KENNETH N. GILPIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Stocks" compares the S.&.P. 500 index to the Federal funds target rates since 1992.
(Soucres: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Graph: "Abroad" compares the Morgan Stanley World Index to the Federal funds target rate since 1992.
(Soucres: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BONDS (73%); HOME PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: CRAIG R SMITH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



587 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: For Bond Investors: Pick the Ugly Ducklings

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
It seems almost preposterous to contend that the bond market could be a rewarding place to be this year. Not after turning in its second-worst performance in a quarter century during 1999 -- negative returns at that -- as stocks, to rub it in, produced yet another year of double-digit gains.
And not when an unusually strong professional consensus agrees that the three-quarters of a percentage point that the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates since last summer gets it just halfway to its likely goal. 
 As rates rise, of course, prices fall. The math is ironclad. And piling into a money market fund is not an unreasonable course of action today.
Yet one does not have to be a knee-jerk contrarian to see grounds for hope. For one thing, the bond market has almost never gone south two years in a row. More importantly, some believe the impending rise in rates seems likely to peak by mid-year, leading to what might be a substantial rally.
And if stocks falter in the meantime, bonds could get better sooner by attracting scared equities money.
"We're back in action as an alternative to the wonderful world of equities," Jack Malvey, chief global bond strategist for Lehman Brothers, predicted.
The way to play this prospect, according to Marilyn Cohen, a Los Angeles adviser who specializes in bonds for individuals, is to start accumulating these ugly ducklings now, but keeping maturities short. With two-year and five-year United States Treasuries yielding 6.45 percent and 6.63 percent, resepctively, nearly as much as the 6.70 percent offered for those coming due in 30 years, there is little incentive to risk buying the longer, more volatile maturities.
"I'd start nibbling right away," said Ms. Cohen, who heads her own firm, Envision Capital. The idea is to gradually feed in additional money as rates rise, not worrying about catching the yield peak, which few are lucky enough to do anyway.
"You're never rewarded in the good markets unless you are venturesome and take a position in the bad markets," Ms. Cohen said to justify a strategy, sound as it is, that risks being a bit early.
The assumption is that the Fed's tightening will, in fact, be successful in cooling the economy, which will curb demand for capital and allow rates to subside.
That's when investors shovel in the rest of their stake, moving out to more distant maturities. Keep in mind, though, that there is no clear signal. The cooling may come earlier or later than expected and the market may judge this well or poorly.
For all investors know, the current dip of 30-year rates below 10-year rates, for example, may mean investors are already expressing confidence that the Federal Reserve will succeed in keeping inflation at bay. When everybody expects the long bond to get to 7 percent, that's a reason for it not to happen.
So which bonds to buy?
Treasuries, which are extremely marketable, carry no risk of default and are not taxable by state and local governments, are preferred by many.
But municipals, tax-free except for capital gains (and the alternative minimum tax) currently yield nearly as much.
And for the more venturesome, especially in 401(k) or other tax-deferred accounts, investors might look at high-grade or high-yield corporates, though these are not very liquid. ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); 

PERSON: MARILYN COHEN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



588 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Waters: Not a Safe Harbor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Diversification is likely to be the first thought that comes to mind when investors think about the threat of rising interest rates in the United States. Diversification is all about doing well in one market while another is fairing poorly.
But going abroad, in stocks or bonds, is no sure bet right now, although some analysts think that Americans will be looking overseas as their returns from American stocks come down to earth against a backdrop of rising interest rates. 
 One reason is that in recent years, diversification has not been a protection against big swoons here. Sharp falls in the major American stock indexes in 1997 and 1998 led the rest of the world lower.
And then there are the environments of foreign markets themselves, which will not be much of a refuge if they sour in the face of their own rising interest rates, too. In other words, uncertainity here does not suggest certainty abroad.
In Europe, the threat of an interest rate increase by the European central bank as the Continental economies rebound has some strategists worried about the outlook for both bonds and stocks.
Yields in France, Germany, Italy and Britain have been rising since late last year. And key stock market indexes in Europe are down so far this year, except in Germany.
In Asia, the outlook is better. Japan is still attracting investment from abroad as it struggles to keep its economic rebound moving. With the economy just beginning to recover, rising interest rates are not a major threat; currently rates are so low as to be barely noticeable.
The rest of Asia is also coming back from the steep economic declines that began with the sudden currency devaluations in the summer of 1997.
The Morgan Stanley Capital International index of emerging stock markets in Asia is up 3.8 percent this year, after rising 63 percent last year.
But in Asia, American investors face another problem: the dollar, the other key factor in investments abroad. It was weak against the Japanese yen and other Asian currencies in 1999, adding strongly to returns for American investors as the stronger yen value was translated back into dollars.
The Nikkei index in Japan was up 55.1 percent when the decline in the dollar was factored in. If the dollar now rallies, it will cut into American returns. This year's small dollar rally, for example, has magnified the 0.30 percent loss in the Nikkei stock index in yen terms to a loss of 2.46 percent in dollar terms.
The dollar does offer some hope for American investors who place their bets on Europe. If it swoons this year after a 16.2 percent rally against the euro in 1999, investments by Americans would get a boost. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (75%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); JAPANESE YEN (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); DEVALUATION (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



589 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Rates Are Likely to Go Higher

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Borrowers should expect to pay more in interest after the Fed raises rates.
Credit card, consumer and auto loans are all tied to interest rates that tend to track Federal Reserve board actions. And even though mortgage rates have been rising for nine months in anticipation of higher inflation ahead, they, too, are likely to go up even more if the Fed raises rates, as expected. 
 About two-thirds of the 200 million individual credit card accounts are at variable rates, said David Robertson, president of The Nilson Report, a credit card newsletter published in Oxnard, Calif.
If the Fed raises rates, card holder rates can go up as soon as the next billing cycle, which might start the next day in some cases, or in as long as three months time, Mr. Robertson said. Most banks, he said, will raise rates at the very next billing cycle.
What is less obvious is that even people with fixed-rate credit cards may see rates rise. The fine print often allows a periodic adjustment and many contracts allow raising the rate if a payment is late.
One bright spot is auto loans. Some manufacturers offer very low rates to customers with solid credit histories who buy models the manufacturers are eager to move. DaimlerChrysler, for example, has granted some customers five-year loans at 0.9 percent interest for five years, below the inflation rate.
Mortgage interest rates have been rising for nine months in anticipation of higher long-term inflation, said Greg McBride of Bankrate.com, a company in North Palm Beach, Fla.,that monitors bank interest rates.
Mortgage rates tend to rise in advance of Fed actions, he said. But even so, Mr. McBride said that mortgage rates, which are now above 8 percent for 30-year loans, may notch even higher if the market anticipates continued increases in the inflation rate.
On the other side of the equation, savers are getting much better returns, he said. The national average yield on a one-year certificate of deposit was 5.05 percent last week, up from 4.27 percent a year ago. DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)
 
Graph: "Savings"compares the Federal funds target rate with the 1-year CD rate since 1992.
(Soucres: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bankrate.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; STOCKS AND BONDS INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BONDS (78%); RETAILERS (73%); 

PERSON: GREG MCBRIDE (65%); DAVID ROBERTSON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



590 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: One Kind of Giving Gets More Attractive

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
For those thinking about creating a charitable remainder trust, the expected rise in rates may have a major impact.
In a charitable remainder trust, an irrevocable gift is made to charity, but the charity does not receive the funds until the giver dies or, as charity officials like to say, when the gift "matures." 
 The giver gets an immediate deduction for the gift, but not for the full amount because the charity will not collect immediately. The amount that can be deducted is based on the age of the donor or donors and on interest rates set by the Internal Revenue Service.
The donor gets back a stream of payments for life and can decide how to invest the trust assets.
The expected rise in interest rates will have virtually no direct impact on charitable remainder unitrusts, which are generally invested in stocks and whose value thus rises and falls with the value of those stocks, said Leland Hoffman, president of the Planned Giving Design Center in Matthews, N.C., an Internet advisory service for charities.
But rates have a big impact on charitable remainder annuity trusts, which pay a fixed sum to the donor.
If people donate bonds to the trust and interest rates go up, then the bonds will be worth less, said Mr. Hoffman, who was a co-author of "Harnessing the Power of the Charitable Remainder Trust" (PhilanthroTec Inc., 5th Edition, 1999).
This means that people planning to finance a charitable remainder annuity trust with bonds want to act before rates rise.
Mr. Hoffman noted, however, that the Internal Revenue Service resets the official interest rate on the 19th of each month and that donors are allowed to use the rate in effect two months earlier. He recommends that appointments with estate lawyers or charity officials to execute trust documents be set in the last 10 days of the month to take advantage of the latest information on the official interest rate.
Paul Gordon Hoffman, a lawyer with Hoffman Sabban & Watenmaker in Los Angeles who is not related to the president of Planned Giving Design Center, said that charitable remainder annuity trusts financed with cash would generate an increasingly large deduction as interest rates rise.
When rates rise, the rules say that the value that eventually goes to charity rises and that means a larger tax deduction, in fact a far larger one.
Paul Gordon Hoffman said that a couple, both aged 65, who donate cash to a charitable remainder annuity trust, or CRAT in industry parlance, at the current official interest rate of 7.4 percent will get to deduct 37.8 percent, or $378,316 for a $1 million trust, assuming they take an annual payout of $60,000.
But if interest rates rise by 1 percentage point, he said, their deduction will grow to 42.6 percent, or $426,616 for a $1 million trust, assuming the same $60,000 annual payout. That is 12.7 percent more, or $48,300 in the case of $1 million trust.
Don't expect to get both a higher payout and a bigger deduction if interest rates rise, however. Paul Gordon Hoffman calculated that if the interest rate set by the I.R.S. rises 1 percentage point and the donor takes a payout of 7 percent, or 1 percentage point higher, the value of the charitable deduction falls to 33.1 percent. DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)
 
Graph: "Mortgages" compares the Mortgage rate to the Federal funds target rates since 1992.
(Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HOFFMAN SABBAN & WATENMAKER PC (52%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (93%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: PAUL GORDON HOFFMAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



591 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: A Slower Economy, But Still aStrong One

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
First the good news: The economy is so strong that even a sharp rise in interest rates this year is unlikely to stop growth in its tracks or hit individuals too hard.
Employers are likely to continue creating new jobs, albeit at a slower pace. The unemployment rate would probably creep up, but remain at a relatively low level. Incomes would continue rising, but perhaps more modestly. 
 There is a case to be made that rate increases by the central bank do not filter through the economy with the force they once did. But Americans would feel the effects nonetheless, though the full impact would not become apparent until 2001. Still, even if the Fed raises rates by more than many expect -- say, a full percentage point this year -- the results would not be cataclysmic by any measure.
"A one percentage point increase will make housing a little less affordable, raise debt service payments for businesses and households, and if history is any guide it will reduce stock and other asset values," said Mark Zandi, an economist at RFA Dismal Sciences, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa.
"It should also help to support the value of the dollar, which should result in greater constraint on our trade with overseas economies," Mr. Zandi said. "When you add all those things together, it will result in an economy that will grow more slowly, but not an economy that will fall off a cliff."
Mr. Zandi plugged a 100 basis point increase in the short-term federal funds target rate into his economic model, and found that growth would decline to 2.5 percent in 2001 from 3.5 percent this year. The unemployment rate would rise to 4.5 percent next year from 4.1 percent this year. Growth in median household income would fall to 2.6 percent from 3.9 percent.
But Mr. Zandi's forecast assumes that rising rates will take a bite out of the stock market, dampening the so-called wealth effect that leaves consumers feeling flush and eager to spend. If investors were to shrug off rising rates and continue pushing equity prices higher, the economy could retain considerably more momentum than if the stock market declines or stays flat.
"Much hinges on a weaker stock market and the market continuing to behave like it has historically in a rising rate environment," Mr. Zandi said. "If the stock market were to move higher and disregard the monetary tightening and higher long-term rates, then the impact on the economy would be very small. You might have fewer homes built, and we might export less overseas because of a stronger dollar, but consumers would spend aggressively and business would invest aggressively."
As Mr. Greenspan and every Fed chairman before him has learned, slowing the economy through interest rate increases is an imprecise business. The main reason that expansions end is not that they grow old and tired, but that the Fed tightens monetary policy a notch or two too much, stamping out inflation but squeezing out growth as well.
Part of the problem is that higher interest rates filter through the economy with a lag of many months. No one knows for sure what economic and financial conditions will be like when a rate increase finally begins to bite.
For the Fed, as it ponders whether another increase is justified, it is like having to know how hard to hit the brakes on the car miles before coming to the stop sign -- and without knowing what the traffic or weather conditions will be. RICHARD W. STEVENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)
 
Graph: "Economic Growth" compares the gross domestic product to the Federal funds target rate since 1992.
(Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: MARK ZANDI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



592 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 46 words

HEADLINE: Of Companies and Countries

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"A Company Worth More Than Spain?" (Market Watch, Dec. 26) noted how Microsoft's market value was about equal to Spain's gross domestic product. 
 Hey, I've been to Spain. Windows 98 works better.
 
DAN FRIEDMAN
New York City, Dec. 26, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (85%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



593 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: The World: The Yankee Dollar;
Latin America Decides, if You Can't Beat 'Em, Join 'Em

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
EVEN in the loopy landscape of South American economies, Ecuador is an extreme case. Last year it defaulted on some of its debt, roughly 70 percent of its banks have been taken over by the state, inflation exceeded 60 percent, and the local currency -- the sucre -- is running at 25,000 to the dollar.
No wonder then that Ecuador's president tried the economic equivalent of a Hail Mary pass. On Jan. 9, President Jamil Mahuad announced that the United States dollar would be the new coin of the realm. The sucre would be used only as small change. 
 Ecuador thus joins a growing list of more than two dozen countries, the largest of them Panama, that use the dollar as their official currency, as well as the people in more than 50 other countries who unofficially put their trust in American money, according to the International Monetary Fund. In Russia alone, residents hold about $40 billion in American dollars.
Mr. Mahuad's abandonment of the sucre is raising questions about how many economically battered countries can take refuge behind the dollar without having an impact on the United States economy itself.
The question is difficult to answer, in part because there has never been anything quite like the current dominance of the dollar. More than $300 billion is circulating outside the United States, and from the tiniest Mexican pueblo to the street corners in Albania, the dollar is accepted, even favored over local currencies.
Until now, American treasury officials have been unwilling to either openly condemn or endorse the dollarization. But since the euro, Europe's new single currency, mad its debut last year, dollarization gained credence as a way for the United States to maintain the pre-eminence of the dollar and to export economic stability.
Some members of Congress take this view. "For a country like Ecuador, dollarization creates at the very least a period of stability," said Representative Jim Saxton, a New Jersey Republican who is the vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. A very short period. By the end of the week Mr. Mahaud had been ousted in a coup led by the military and Indian groups.
Steve H. Hanke, a professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University, has compared the performance of developing economies linked to the dollar with those that are not and found that the dollar's stability does seem to rub off. Dollarized countries and those that back their currency on a one-to-one ratio with dollars (as Argentina does now) enjoyed higher growth rates, lower inflation and smaller deficits from 1950 to 1993 than those that relied on their central banks to set monetary policy.
"The only way to extinguish the frequency and reduce the magnitude of recurring currency crises is to put these little half-baked central banks out of business," Professor Hanke said.
That's what happened in Ecuador, where the three top members of the central bank quit when the government decided to replace most of the 11 trillion sucres in circulation with about $450 million, at a rate of 25,000 sucres to $1.
Under dollarization, the banks lose their most important power, the ability to print money. That's one reason the three top bankers quit.
But the presidents of developing countries that adopt the dollar also lose some power. They can no longer resolve political crises by bullying their central bankers into lowering interest rates or printing money to cover government debts. The benefit is that it is more difficult for these governments to pursue inflationary economic policies.
Despite Professor Hanke's enthusiasm, though, economists are divided over the long-term effects of dollarization. The gyrations of a small national economy that used dollars would have little effect here, noted C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "However, if one big country like Mexico or a group of countries in the hemisphere decide that they want to do it," he said, referring to dollarization, "it could have an effect on our monetary policy."
Mr. Bergsten wonders what would happen if the United States economy slowed, but high oil prices kept a dollarized Mexico booming. The demand for dollars south of the border could put upward pressure on interest rates just when the American states needed lower rates to kick-start economic growth.
"There are highly plausible circumstances which could require the Federal Reserve to alter course or have its own purely U.S. monetary objectives undercut," Mr. Bergsten said.
ECUADOR is also running the risk of being out of sync with the United States economy. For example, an interest rate hike, intended to slow expansion of the American economy, might send Ecuador into recession.
Congress is considering bills to give the secretary of the treasury the power to share with the dollarizing countries some of the revenue that they lose by not issuing their own currency. In the case of Argentina, that comes to about $750 million a year. In Ecuador, it would be about $30 million a year.
But formal arrangements would invariably be accompanied by pressure from the dollarizing country to have some say in setting monetary policy, perhaps with a seat on a new or expanded Federal Reserve Board. Something similar happened in Europe, where the central banks of 11 nations were replaced by a new European Central Bank that represents them all but gives special consideration to none.
For Washington, the desire to legislate the dollarizing process is a natural one. But a better idea may be to let foreign nations decide on their own whether to adopt American currency. This is what Ecuador did, without implicating the United States in the process at all. As Professor Hanke said, with Ecuador "the bottom line is that there aren't any realistic downsides for us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indians protest Ecuador's adoption of the dollar as its official currency. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EURO (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); INFLATION (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); COUPS (50%); 

PERSON: JIM SAXTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



594 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Navigating the Renaissance of an Ohio River That Once Caught Fire

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The new federal overseer's job title, river navigator, has a Mark Twain ring, while the river, the Cuyahoga, bears an infamous image worthy of Dante: it was the Cuyahoga that burst into flames in 1969 and burned in plain sight of the nation under an oily burden of noxious pollutants.
"The river catching fire brought national attention and ridicule to Cleveland, but it also proved to be the instrumental rallying point in the passage of the Clean Water Act of 1972," said Steven R. Davis, the Cuyahoga's newly appointed navigator. 
 Mr. Davis, a watershed expert with the United States Forest Service, is a pioneer along the first 14 troubled waterways to be covered under the new American Heritage Rivers program. As navigator, he has the unusual job of reversing the federal stereotype of big, intrusive bureaucracy by diplomatically roaming and working for 80 communities and more than 100 city and township jurisdictions as a riverfront trouble-shooter.
"That's what's exciting about this. I'm a lone federal employee working at the grass-roots level to help the Cuyahoga," Mr. Davis said. He serves as part liaison, part catalyst for local civic, government and business leaders in northeast Ohio in their dealings with a score of federal agencies that have the wherewithal to help rebuild the economic and cultural life of the river.
He sees himself as a large-scale aquatic version of the traditional extension agent in agricultural regions: a specialist helping localities move from blight to bounty. On a good day, he hopes to prove a bit of a spark in river projects involving the private sector and the government -- a poetic enough notion considering that local lore says it was a spark from a welder's torch, or maybe from a passing train, that set the Cuyahoga to burning.
After only a few months on the job, Mr. Davis, a mustached 47-year-old whose style is far more amiably rustic than bureaucratic, already has a raft of tasks from his assorted governmental and environmental constituents. They range from the minuscule (how to clear the debris under the abandoned railroad trestle in Kent that blocks river passage) to the daunting (how to help Cleveland and Akron find the right plans and financing to solve serious sewage overflows during rainstorms that feed the river's violation of federal pollution standards).
"We're all here because of the river, the lifeblood for the first settlers of Cleveland and Akron," Mr. Davis said. He has been studying each twist and turn of the 100-mile river and measuring the considerable recovery efforts of the five regional "river partners" sponsoring the program -- government and civic associations that have been dedicated for years to the Cuyahoga's renaissance.
"People turned their back on the river as soon as the railroads came in in the 1850's," he noted, while taking inventory of waterfront trash heaps and finding reclamation handsomely under way in some areas. Notably, there is Cleveland's Flats neighborhood, now stylishly resurgent but once the slum area where flames first burst incongruously upon the Cuyahoga.
The Cuyahoga -- it got its name from a Native American term for crooked river because of the unusual U shape that causes it to flow both north and south -- was a teeming conduit after the Revolutionary War, as Western settlers journeyed from Lake Erie down the Ohio River. In modern times the river has reeled from industrial pollution, sporting deformed fish and prompting warnings against swimming the oil-slicked waters.
In three decades, the river's local and regional defenders have fought back. Fish are returning, but the warnings against eating them remain. And there are still bans on swimming and boating in the area's 33,000-acre Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area. The river's 813-square-mile watershed now supports 15 percent of Ohio's population.
Mr. Davis, who has an office in a 19th-century general store in the Cuyahoga national park, has worked for the Forest Service for 25 years. He served as the agency's specialist in dealing with the river problems of dozens of communities in California, Colorado and Wyoming.
Mr. Davis has no special financing beyond his own $60,000 annual paycheck. His task is to see what localities want and to broker plans and financing with private and government participation.
"There's a million things we need to do," said Mr. Davis, who is planning a canoe trip on the Cuyahoga to further erase the image of the burning river. "The program is new, so there's no real direction. But the blessing is, we can invent it as we go and work with local people to do it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven R. Davis oversees the Cuyahoga River as part of the federal government's new American Heritage Rivers program. (Barney Taxel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); AKRON, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HERITAGE HOMES (56%); FOREST SERVICE (57%); FOREST SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (57%); FOREST SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); AKRON, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RIVERS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FIRES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); WEATHER (69%); WATER QUALITY (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TRAINS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVEN R DAVIS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



595 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE MONEY;
Democrats Look for Ways to Counter G.O.P. Advantage

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Jan. 22

 BODY:
Democrats, facing the overwhelming financial superiority of the Republicans, have begun an aggressive and accelerated fund-raising and organizational effort in the hope that the eventual Democratic presidential nominee can match Republican spending this spring.
"We will win or lose in November depending on what we do in the first quarter of this year," said Joe Andrew, the national chairman of the Democratic National Committee, which is meeting here. "We will have to win on the ground, because they will always have superior dollars to spend on the air war." 
 Democratic officials are operating on the assumption that the Republicans will raise $250 million to $350 million to support their party's nominee -- who virtually all Democrats presume will be Gov. George W. Bush. Democrats cannot hope to match that figure but are expecting to raise and spend between $50 million and $150 million for this year's campaigns, officials said.
Democratic leaders hope to raise a substantial portion of the total in the first three months of the year, to be prepared for the long lull between the selection of the party's nominee, which will almost certainly be completed by the end of March, and the national convention in mid-August.
Fund-raisers are courting big donors and hammering traditional contributors to write their checks early. President Clinton has promised to attend at least 10 money-raising functions before the end of March. In just the past week, he has raised more than $2 million at events in Boston, Washington and Los Angeles.
Edward G. Rendell, the D.N.C.'s general chairman, said in an interview this week that the party was focusing on three major groups of donors: established Democratic contributors, those who have given in the past but dropped out and new donors.
Among the biggest challenges will be to try to corral contributors to former Senator Bill Bradley should he fail in his bid to win the presidential nomination, Mr. Rendell said. Mr. Rendell, the former mayor of Philadelphia, said many of Mr. Bradley's donors are Republicans and friends who have not contributed to Democratic causes before. But he said he hoped to be able to persuade them to support Vice President Al Gore if he wins the nomination.
Douglas Berman, Mr. Bradley's campaign chairman, said that was unlikely, in part because of the bitterness of the current primary campaign and in part because those donors are disillusioned with the Clinton-Gore brand of politics.
"A fair amount of that financial support will not be transferable," Mr. Berman said. "What brought them to Bradley was a desire for fundamental change in the direction of the last several years."
Mr. Andrew and other officials are in Louisville this weekend to lay out for the 50 state Democratic chairmen the party's strategy for prevailing despite the Republicans' money advantage and what most expect to be a relatively brief and easy nomination battle for Mr. Bush.
The answer, Mr. Andrew and other Democratic leaders said, boils down to two areas where they believe the Democrats can leverage their strengths into electoral advantage: message and targeting.
Democratic polls and focus groups, as well as impartial surveys, show a public preference for Democratic approaches to the issues that concern most voters: education, health care, preservation of Medicare and Social Security, management of the economy, even crime and public safety. Those issues come up repeatedly in discussions with Democratic officials here.
"We're going to win in Kentucky across the board because we're right on the issues," said Nicki Patton, the Kentucky state party chairwoman. "Our biggest challenge is going to be to get out the vote because I know our candidates are fundamentally closer to where the average working American family is."
The message will be carried by members of Congress and local candidates, and by an unusually early advertising campaign directed at the 17 states that Democrats have identified as in play in November.
But the biggest innovation, and the area where spending is growing the fastest, is what Mr. Andrew calls "the customized campaign." Since 1996, the national and state parties have been compiling a computerized database that allows officials to identify targeted voters by a host of variables, including demographic and economic data, party affiliation, consumer preferences, religion, education and likelihood to vote.
The database will contain physical and e-mail addresses and phone numbers, allowing campaigns alternate ways of reaching voters. The party has purchased delivery data from the United States Postal Service that maps out the most effective routes for door-to-door canvassing. It also tracks cable television subscriptions, allowing targeting of political advertising almost by neighborhood.
Mr. Andrew admits it sounds a bit Big Brotherish, but he insists that these are merely new tools for doing old-fashioned shoe-leather campaigning in the digital age. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (89%); ED RENDELL (79%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



596 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Group of 7 Nations Seek Their Own Paths to a Common Goal

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 22

 BODY:
With the exception, perhaps, of the Russians, everyone came away from the meeting of the financial leaders of the Group of 7 industrialized countries today with something they wanted.
For the Japanese hosts, there was a statement, albeit a muddled one, of collective concern over the potential negative impact of an excessively strong yen on the global economy. 
 The Europeans conversely managed to keep their currency, the euro, out of the final communique despite concerns among policy makers outside Europe that its low value is being used to avoid taking steps for painful economic restructuring.
And for the Americans, there were pledges from their European and Japanese counterparts that they would work hard to increase their role in ensuring global prosperity.
But, peeking out around the edges of collective good will, there were reminders that the global economy is nothing more than an uneasy federation of national interests.
First, it became clear that in spite of an aggressive campaign by the Germans to promote their deputy finance minister, Caio Koch-Weser, as the next leader of the International Monetary Fund, no signs of consensus had emerged. If anything, it seemed the parties had moved further apart, with the French now considering offering their own candidate, perhaps Jean-Claude Trichet or a dark-horse candidate whose name has already surfaced, Laurent Fabius, a former prime minister.
The Europeans took umbrage at American concerns over the euro, with ministers from the region and the leader of the European Central Bank emphatically dismissing suggestions that a weak euro had created an export-led recovery in Europe.
"The economic potential behind the euro is obviously greater than that of any other currency, including the mark," said Hans Eichel, the German finance minister. "When people see how Europe picks up, the euro-dollar relationship will change."
And in a news conference, Finance Minister Christian Sautter of France drew attention to a reference in the communique to concerns about the rising level of debt among American households.
Mr. Sautter said, "Every country has its problems," and he added that he thought it was the first time the United States has ever countenanced any mention of its economic warts in such a document.
Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, seized an opportunity to tweak the French when he commended them for taking Britain's lead in forgiving all of the government-guaranteed debts owed by several of the world's poorest countries that have agreed to adopt reforms recommended by the I.M.F. aimed at increasing efficiency.
The French said today that they would forgive some 7 billion francs worth of debts under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative mounted by the Group of 7 last year.
In addition to exchange rates, monetary and fiscal policy, the global financial system and other matters, the ministers also grilled the Russian finance minister on his country's progress in reforming its economy. Russia is seeking debt forgiveness and a resumption of a $4.5 billion loan package from the I.M.F. that was put on hold after the country failed to meet some of the terms. The ministers offered a lukewarm assessment of Russia's economic progress, attributing it to "improved external factors."
"I'd like to make it clear that from Germany's standpoint at least, debt forgiveness is out of the question," Mr. Eichel said, adding that further talks will depend on whether Russia introduces credible, far-reaching reforms. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EURO (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (54%); GORDON BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



597 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL;
A Burst From South Bronx to Ohio State

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Had Sammy Maldonado yielded to cultural tradition, he would have followed the cleat prints of thousands of other Latino kids onto the baseball field. But fate stepped in when Maldonado was 8 years old and placed the youngster on a football field.
Today, this son of a diminutive Puerto Rican immigrant is considered one of the greatest high school running backs in New York State history and one of the top-20 high school football players in the nation. Maldonado, who attends Harrison High School, is only the second high school player in the state to run for more than 7,000 yards in a career. Along with rushing for 7,581 yards, Maldonado set a state record for most touchdowns in a career with 99 -- 15 more were called back because of penalties -- and is the first player in state history to win two high school Heisman awards. He also led the Harrison Huskies to a 12-0 season and the Class B state championship. 
 After weighing full-scholarship offers to Ohio State, Penn State, Syracuse and Miami, Maldonado plans to sign a letter of intent in early February to attend Ohio State.
At 17, Maldonado has been embraced as a role model by New York's Latino community, from the South Bronx, where his parents made their first home, to Harrison, where he grew up. In this soft-spoken, seemingly all-American boy who is more fluent in English than Spanish, Latins have found a great hope.
"I dare say that this kid may become the first Latino American to win the Heisman Trophy," said Julio Pabon, founder of Latino Sports Ventures, a sports marketing firm that promotes Latino athletes. "Sammy has managed to excel in a sport that is not abundant with Latinos -- except maybe as place-kickers. We're going to see an Hispanic last name on a jersey in collegiate Division I-A football and maybe one day in the National Football League, and that is going to be great for the Latin community."
On Jan. 12, members of New York City's Latin community and beyond attended a luncheon thrown by Maldonado's father, Rafael, at Mickey Mantle's restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. The senior Maldonado said the celebration was his way of saying thanks to coaches, teachers, relatives and friends who have supported his son during his high school career.
But his invited guests, including Jose Torres, the former light-heavyweight champion, and Freeman McNeil, the former Jets running back, seized the moment to pay tribute to Maldonado's son, who received Estrellas del Suturo award (Stars of the Future) from Latino Sports Ventures and was honored by Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer for his contributions to the community.
"This boy has South Bronx milk," Ferrer said.
For his part, the boy readily accepts the responsibilities that come with carrying a people's hope on his shoulders.
"I'm willing to rise to the challenge," Maldonado said in an interview. "Pressure really doesn't affect me."
The 6-foot-1-inch, 220-pound Maldonado appears to be the prototype running back. According to his coach, Art Troilo Jr., the teenager has soft pass-catching hands and a formidable combination of speed, strength, agility and smarts. A highlight video that was played for luncheon guests showed one play in which Maldonado took a handoff on the 15-yard line, darted up the middle, sped around the left cornerback and dragged the right defensive back into the end zone with him for the score.
Asked which of his physical attributes was his best asset, Maldonado said "all of them."
"I can run over you or away from you," he said matter-of-factly. "Whatever comes naturally at the time, I do it."
He chose Ohio State over Syracuse because he prefers playing on natural grass. The Carrier Dome, Syracuse's home field, is artificial turf.
"He got hurt at Syracuse in his last game" -- a 28-26 victory over Lackawanna for the state title -- "he sprained his ankle," said his mother, Nereyda, who hasn't missed any of her son's games and doesn't plan to start now, even though he will be playing several hundred miles away. "He said he liked Ohio State because they like to run the ball a lot and it's more like the high school game."
Also, two of his idols, running backs Eddie George and Archie Griffin, attended Ohio State. Each won the Heisman Trophy -- Griffin managed to do it twice in 1974 and 1975 -- and both went on to play in the pros, George currently with the Tennessee Titans and Griffin with the Cincinnati Bengals.
"He's capable of following in their footsteps," Troilo said. "Sammy has that kind of God-given ability that you can't teach. He can play anywhere on the football field: defensive back, linebacker, halfback, fullback. He's a special player. But the best thing he does is run with the football because of his size, strength and vision."
Rafael Maldonado always knew his youngest of three sons -- Rafael Jr. is 28 and Thomas is 25 -- had talent.
"Ever since he was 8, he just loved football," said Maldonado. "He played basketball and baseball, but he liked physical sports."
The senior Maldonado came to New York in 1967 at the age of 17, discovered he liked the cold weather and decided to stay. He moved with a cousin to the South Bronx, got a job washing dishes and moved up the economic ladder to a good-paying job managing 40 parking garages in Manhattan. Shortly before Sammy was born in 1982, the family moved from the South Bronx to a house in Harrison.
"We wanted to give the boys a better education," their father said.
This past week, Maldonado who was named New York State Gatorade Player of the Year, was flown to Hawaii to attend the Hula Bowl yesterday. It was his first trip without his parents.
"It's only four days," his mother said with a sigh. "The only thing is that he will be alone on his birthday on Jan. 22. But it's good for him to go."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sammy Maldonado, a Harrison High School senior, is one of the greatest running backs ever in New York State and a top-20 player in the nation. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OHSB (NASDAQ) (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (94%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RAFAEL MALDONADO (95%); SAMMY MALDONADO (62%); ARCHIE GRIFFIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



598 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Reinstated Officer Is Renewed as a Candidate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
James E. Davis can scarcely conceal his feeling of triumph. Fourteen months after Mr. Davis, a police officer and part-time minister, was fired from the force after his name appeared on a general election ballot, he won a court ruling saying that his dismissal was unjust.
That legal victory last week, which upheld Mr. Davis's challenge of his dismissal under a Police Department policy forbidding active officers to run as official candidates of any political party, has reinvigorated his political aspirations. 
 Two years ago, he stunned Brooklyn politicians by nearly toppling the Democratic Party leader, Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., in the primary. Mr. Davis's participation in the primary did not violate department policy because before the primary vote, the party has no official candidate. The trouble began after Mr. Davis's name appeared on the Liberal Party line in the general election.
But now, with the court ruling behind him, Mr. Davis says he will take on Mr. Norman again this year.
The prospect of a rematch is creating a stir in the Crown Heights district that Mr. Norman has represented in Albany for 18 years. In 1998, Mr. Davis lost the primary by just 580 votes, suggesting that Mr. Norman, long a political heavyweight, is vulnerable.
"I have always planned to run this year, and I never stopped campaigning," Mr. Davis said. "But there is a new energy from the people after this court decision. The people are calling me the lion slayer. I am energized and excited."
Mr. Norman says he is taking nothing for granted this year. In a recent interview, he said the primary results were close because he had been busy working on the campaigns of other Democrats in the borough, as well as the statewide campaign of Eliot L. Spitzer for attorney general.
"I spent a tremendous amount of time outside of my district," Mr. Norman said. "And we saw the results not being what we hoped they would be. This time, we will be absolutely focused."
Mr. Norman said he had already raised about $160,000 for his re-election campaign. "And that's not nearly as much as I'm going to have," he added. His campaign spent about $30,000 in the 1998 race.
Mr. Davis acknowledges that he is likely to be significantly outspent by Mr. Norman, but he maintains that he can win without matching his opponent dollar for dollar.
"It's not going to require that much money to beat him," Mr. Davis said. "What's important for me is to meet with all the community and civic leaders in the community. That's what made my showing so strong in the Democratic primary in 1998."
After the primary, the Police Department fired Mr. Davis, contending he had been the Liberal Party's official candidate in the the general election. But Mr. Davis contended that he had not been an official candidate and had never received notice that he was the party's designated candidate. The Liberal Party, as well as the Board of Elections, supported Mr. Davis's contention, and after 14 months of unemployment, Mr. Davis was ordered reinstated last week by the State Supreme Court, which also ordered the Police Department pay his back wages.
As in his previous race against Mr. Norman, Mr. Davis insists that the assemblyman has been so involved with running the party that he has been inattentive to the needs of the 43rd Assembly District.
"Clarence Norman has been there for almost 20 years and nothing has improved," Mr. Davis said.
In response, Mr. Norman, 49, mentions a litany of projects he has either led or supported, from the restoration of major thoroughfares to funds for senior citizens' centers and health care initiatives in the district. "I have been in the forefront of every major issue that affects the district." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (62%); LIBERAL PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (62%); LIBERAL PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



599 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Battle for a Grocery Store On the Ballot in Vermont

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., Jan. 22

 BODY:
The bread display is a thing of beauty: fat, crusty loaves of rye and oatmeal sitting next to baskets of multigrain hard rolls and chewy baguettes.
In that august culinary setting, the brand-new display of Koffee Kup white bread and hot dog rolls looks oddly out of place. It's there because the Onion River Food Co-op has been trying to prove to Burlington shoppers that the store does not sell organic bread alone. 
 "We'll obviously have to rearrange these shelves," said Ned Flinn, manager of the Onion River Food Co-op, a 3,500-square-foot food cooperative in Burlington's Old North End. "With all these new products coming in, we haven't figured out where to put them."
Mr. Flinn has many other things on his plate right now. On Tuesday, voters here in Vermont's largest city will be asked whether they want a new downtown grocery to be run by the co-op or by Shaw's, a supermarket chain with stores in all six New England states. The issue is on the ballot because of a petition drive by a group called Friends of Shaw's.
And if, on the surface, the contest appears to be a simple matter of competitive capitalist enterprise, just below the surface lies a host of issues that are charged with class differences, ethnic and cultural diversity, the benefits of local ownership versus the economies of scale.
"We have economic, racial and ethnic diversity in Burlington, and a 15,000-square-foot store won't meet their needs," said Sam Osborne, a Burlington resident and consultant for Shaw's, referring to the proposed co-op store. "Groups from every walk of life will be left out under the Onion River proposal." He said poor residents and the elderly were worried that they would dislike the selection and find the prices too high.
The Price Chopper supermarket closed in April 1999, leaving Burlington, with a population of about 38,000, without a downtown food store. The city sought applicants for a new market to be built on the city-owned site of the old police station.
Shaw's Supermarkets wants to build a 45,000-square-foot store on the site, said Bernard Rogan, spokesman for Shaw's, which has headquarters in East Bridgewater, Mass. Shaw's says it will need to build an underground garage, and it has asked the city to pick up $800,000 of the bill with a bond vote.
"Our contention was, and is, that you need a diverse product line because of the diversity of the population in Burlington," said Mr. Rogan, calling for more ethnic foods and other products. But the size of the Shaw's project has been a sticking point for many city officials.
Onion River has offered a site plan calling for 15,000 square feet of grocery store, 4,000 square feet of office and warehouse space, and above-ground parking. The timetable for opening the new store is about 18 months, Mr. Flinn said.
Jane Knodell, president of the City Council, was one of the Council members who voted with the majority in the 12-to-2 vote in favor of the Onion River proposal at a meeting on Dec. 13. "The size of Shaw's would have a negative impact on the neighborhood," Ms. Knodell said.
"There would be lots of truck traffic, huge Dumpsters. Their site design is very suburban.
"It's true that you may not get umpteen different versions of cornflakes offered at Onion River," she added, "but I'm not sure that makes anybody's life any better anyway."
A thorny issue has been the implications of making a natural foods co-op the only option in town. Typically, co-ops do not carry the standard commercial food products, particularly if they are irradiated, processed or adulterated in some way.
To address that, the city has told Onion River that it must expand its product offerings at its proposed store -- and it has already done so at its present site -- to include conventional foodstuffs. So far, the co-op has added Crisco, Cheerios, Grape-Nuts, American cheese -- and Koffee Kup bread, and more is coming.
Michael Monte, director of the Community and Economic Development Office for the city of Burlington, acknowledged that "people's gut reaction is that they want a regular, big supermarket like other people have. But when people take a closer look at some of the issues that crop up -- loss of local control, zoning changes -- they start to rethink that."
Not true, said Mr. Osborne, who founded the Friends of Shaw's Committee. He said his polling indicated that "seven out of eight people we talked to wanted Shaw's. They think Onion River is too expensive and that it won't meet their needs. The co-op won't even sell cigarettes. People don't want to be told what they can and can't do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ned Flinn hopes his food co-op and not a supermarket chain is selected to operate the new grocery store planned for downtown Burlington, Vt. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SHAW'S SUPERMARKETS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); BONDS (75%); ORGANIC FOODS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); ETHNICITY (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); PETITIONS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); 

PERSON: NED FLINN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



600 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador Coup Shifts Control To No. 2 Man

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Jan. 22

 BODY:
After 18 hours of chaos that began when dissident military officers and Indian groups overthrew the elected president of Ecuador, Jamil Mahuad, the country's vice president assumed power early today when a rival military faction intervened on his behalf.
Gustavo Noboa Bejarano took office after Gen. Carlos Mendoza, the Ecuadorean armed forces chief of staff and acting minister of defense, abruptly announced that he was dissolving the three-man junta he briefly led in Latin America's first military overthrow of a sitting civilian president in more than a decade. 
 General Mendoza said he was acting to "prevent the international isolation of Ecuador," a reference to demands by the United States and Latin American countries that constitutional rule be preserved in a country undergoing severe economic crisis.
"Under the laws laid out in the Constitution, I find myself under the obligation to assume the presidency of Ecuador," Mr. Noboa, who becomes the sixth chief of state in four years, said this morning at a news conference in Quito, the capital. "I have the support of the armed forces and the national police."
Mr. Naboa's assumption of power was formally ratified by the Ecuadorean Congress in Guayaquil today.
Mr. Mahuad, a 50-year-old former mayor of Quito, left the Presidential Palace under military escort on Friday afternoon and resurfaced this morning on television to condemn the coup. He described it as a "Cantinflas comedy" that exposed Ecuador to international ridicule.
But he did acknowledge Mr. Noboa's authority and wished him luck. "A deposed president neither resigns nor abandons his post; he is deposed," Mr. Mahuad said. "I will never be an obstacle for the vice president to assume the presidency."
In a defiant television speech on Friday, Mr. Mahuad refused to resign, challenging the military by saying it would have to "remove me by force." He said that a military unit took him to an air force base where he was first threatened with arrest and then urged to flee the country, before he escaped, took temporary refuge in the Chilean embassy and then made his way to what he described as a "private home."
The military coup was immediately condemned by the Clinton administration and the Organization of American States, both of which threatened sanctions against any military-led government. Peter Romero, the State Department's top official for Latin America, warned the coup leaders on Quito radio on Friday that they faced "political and economic isolation" akin to Cuba's if they persisted.
Today, Mr. Romero, a former ambassador to Ecuador, described the situation as "chaos."
He said Mr. Noboa, a 62-year-old former dean of the Catholic University of Guayaquil and former governor of the country's most important province, would be under enormous pressure "not to do anything" to fix the economy.
The insurrection against Mr. Mahuad originated in Ecuador's worst economic crisis in more than 70 years. The economy contracted by 7.5 percent last year, the worst performance in Latin America. Inflation was more than 60 percent for the second consecutive year, and the country defaulted on half of its $13 billion in foreign debt in September.
Indians, who make up more than one-third of Ecuador's 12.5 million people and are largely peasant farmers, have been hit particularly hard.
Antonio Vargas, leader of the country's most powerful Indian group, had lobbied the government for $42 million in debt forgiveness and new loans, but was turned down and quickly turned into one of Mr. Mahuad's most ferocious critics, accusing him of inflicting "massive impoverishment" on Ecuadoreans.
Hoping to secure financing abroad, Mr. Mahuad responded to the recession with an austerity program that further eroded his popularity and included two especially criticized measures. He froze the life savings of thousands of Ecuadoreans during a banking crisis in March and, in a radical and desperate move, on Jan. 9 declared his intent to replace the nation's currency with the American dollar.
In a speech broadcast on Ecuadorean radio this morning, Mr. Noboa said he intended to continue with the dollarization program, "in accordance with Ecuadorean reality and technique." But he indirectly criticized some other aspects of Mr. Mahuad's rule and vowed to take quick action against what he described as rampant corruption, a central opposition demand.
The collapse of the Mahuad government began on Friday morning when Indian protesters marched on the national Congress in Quito. A military unit assigned to guard the legislative building instead stepped aside, allowing Mr. Vargas and his supporters to enter, seize control of offices there and proclaim the overthrow of Mr. Mahuad and the dissolution of Congress and the Supreme Court and their replacement by a "People's Parliament."
A group of more than 50 junior military officers led by Col. Lucio Gutierrez immediately joined the Indian group, and other officials began arriving and adhering to the uprising, among them Col. Fausto Cobo, commander of Ecuador's military academy. With television cameras broadcasting the takeover, Mr. Vargas announced the formation of a new governing junta composed of himself, Colonel Gutierrez and Carlos Solorzano, a former Supreme Court chief justice.
The military high command initially expressed lukewarm support for Mr. Mahuad. But as more and more colonels, majors and captains in charge of provincial units rose in rebellion, the generals were forced to reverse course, and by mid-afternoon they had issued a new statement urging the president to resign.
In an interview with an Ecuadorean television reporter, an unidentified military officer who had joined the insurrection complained that since Mr. Mahuad took office in August 1998, the value of his salary had declined from $1,100 a month to less than $300. Colonel Gutierrez, for his part, vowed to replace "this ignominious model of government" with one that would attack "corruption and impunity" by the bankers Mr. Mahuad was seen as protecting.
After Mr. Mahuad left his offices, the junta announced plans to march on and seize the Presidential Palace a few blocks away. But the military high command acted before it could get there, with General Mendoza and the army commander, Gen. Telmo Sandoval, sending troops to take control of the building and deploying tanks in the square in front of it to block the protesters' advance.
General Mendoza said he had acted to "avoid a social explosion." Just before midnight, after several hours of negotiations with Mr. Vargas and Colonel Gutierrez and their supporters, he emerged to announce that the country would be governed by a "triumvirate" in which he would replace Colonel Gutierrez but Mr. Vargas and Mr. Solorzano would remain.
Before dawn, however, he had moved to undercut his two partners in the junta, who said they remain opposed to Mr. Noboa taking power and called for the arrest of Mr. Mahuad. Salvador Quishpe, an aide to Mr. Vargas, argued that Ecuador needs to "undergo a process of purification," condemned Mr. Noboa as "one of the politicians responsible for this debacle" and said his group planned to continue its protests.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gustavo Noboa Bejarano became Ecuador's president yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. 13)
 
Map of Ecuador shows the location of Quito: Ecuador's vice president took power as a junta yielded in Quito. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); CUBA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (87%); GUAYAQUIL, ECUADOR (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (57%); ECUADOREAN CONGRESS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECUADOREAN CONGRESS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); CUBA (79%); CHILE (79%); QUITO, ECUADOR (87%); GUAYAQUIL, ECUADOR (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

 
