

401 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Alcoa Posts Loss on Fewer Orders and Lower Prices

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Alcoa, the aluminum producer, posted its first net loss in more than a year on Monday on fewer orders for its products.
Aluminum prices dropped about 12 percent in the fourth quarter. They have fallen more than 27 percent from their peak in April. 
Alcoa's performance can reflect global economic trends because its products are used in a wide range of businesses like aircraft, automobiles, commercial vehicles like semitrailers, construction and pipe for the oil and gas industry. About half of its sales are in the United States. An additional 27 percent are in Europe.
As a result, Alcoa has looked for ways to reduce costs. It plans to cut global smelting capacity 12 percent by closing a smelter in Alcoa, Tenn., and curtailing operations in Texas, Italy and Spain.
Alcoa said that it lost $191 million, or 18 cents a share, in the October-to-December quarter. That compares with income of $258 million, or 24 cents a share, a year ago. It was the company's first net loss since the first quarter of 2010.
The most recent quarter included $159 million in one-time revamping charges, the bulk of which came from Alcoa's plan to close and curtail some smelting operations. Excluding that, the loss was $34 million, or 3 cents a share.
Alcoa also said its earnings suffered from higher costs for energy and transportation.
Revenue rose to $6 billion from $5.65 billion, although business was down in most areas; including construction, industrial products, packaging and commercial transportation. Sales to automobile manufacturers fell 2 percent.
Alcoa had record higher revenue from its aerospace and industrial gas turbine businesses.
For all of 2011, Alcoa reported net income of $611 million, or 55 cents a share, compared with $254 million, or 24 cents a share, in 2010. Revenue rose to $25 billion from $21 billion.
Looking ahead, Alcoa's chief executive, Klaus Kleinfeld, predicted that cutbacks in aluminum production would create a global deficit in aluminum supplies of about 600,000 metric tons this year. He also forecast that global aluminum demand would increase 7 percent in 2012.
In the coming year, the company expects that European sales will remain weak and that high costs for energy and raw materials will continue to hurt earnings. Global aerospace and automotive demand for aluminum is expected to stay strong.
While European markets may be weak, Alcoa sees improving demand this year in China, especially for beverage can packaging, automotive and commercial vehicles and construction.
Alcoa released its earnings after the market closed on Monday. Its shares ended regular trading up 27 cents at $9.43 a share. In the last 52 weeks, the price ranged from $8.45 to $18.47 a share.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Alcoa aluminum smelting plant in Goose Creek, S.C. The company said it planned to cut capacity at some other locations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE SMITH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM MARKETS (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (65%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (96%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%)

PERSON: KLAUS KLEINFELD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



402 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Drilling Critics Face a Divide Over the Goal Of Their Fight

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
With a deadline looming this week for the public to weigh in on gas drilling in New York State, the antifracking movement itself has become divided over what its goal should be: securing the nation's toughest regulations, or winning an outright ban?
The question is pitting brand-name organizations like the Sierra Club, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Nature Conservancy, which are working nationwide for stringent rules, against an ever-growing universe of grass-roots groups demanding a prohibition on the kind of intensive shale gas drilling being proposed in the state. And it is reflecting the tightrope being walked by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo between an economically potent industry and many landowners eager for drilling on one side, and on the other a movement that has become one of the most powerful environmental and citizens campaigns in state history.
Whatever the result, the split among the industry critics reflects how the opposition has exponentially hardened since fracking emerged as a statewide issue in 2008. 
''When we started out, what we wanted was more information on what this means for New York,'' said Wes Gillingham, program director for Catskill Mountainkeeper, one of the first groups to focus on the issue. ''No one had any thought about calling for a ban. But the more you find out about gas drilling and how it's been practiced by the industry today, the more you realize it can't be done safely. It would just be a disaster for New York State.''
Mr. Gillingham said he had worked closely and effectively with national groups. Still, he said: ''For the average person on the ground over the Marcellus Shale who is living with this issue, the fact that the national groups are not saying, 'Not here, no way,' is shocking to them.''
Wednesday is the deadline for comments about the state's proposed drilling regulations and environmental impact statement to guide gas development in New York. So far, the State Department of Environmental Conservation has received 20,800 comments, far more than any other issue in its history. Officials say they do not know of any other issue that received 1,000 comments.
Drilling could start up after the state adopts new regulations, perhaps this spring. After previously indicating his agency expected drilling to resume at some point this year, Joseph Martens, commissioner of the conservation department, said in October that it was not clear whether any drilling would proceed this year.
Representatives of national groups, like Kate Sinding of the Natural Resources Defense Council and Roger Downs of the Sierra Club, are widely regarded as key players who asked the right questions and provided the technical expertise that helped produce what has, in effect, been an almost four-year moratorium on new gas drilling in New York State. At issue is a process called high-volume hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking, which involves injecting millions of gallons of chemically treated water underground to break up shale formations and release natural gas.
Questions about the safety of the process have helped move some environmentalists from an enthusiastic embrace of gas to a much more measured one that still sees it as an essential part of the available energy mix.
''I guess I would say that, in fairness, the N.R.D.C.'s position has evolved -- in New York and more broadly as well,'' Ms. Sinding said. ''So we're very concerned not only with having the best regulations in place, but with the extent to which drilling is going to be allowed to happen at all in the state.
''But we haven't called for a ban because we continue to believe that, in all likelihood, some amount of drilling is going to happen, and it's important to be present at the table so we have regulations that ensure that whatever is done will be done as safely as possible.''
Many of those involved said it was unlikely that Governor Cuomo would turn his back on the gas industry and ban drilling in the rich Marcellus and Utica shale deposits covering much of the economically depressed southern and western reaches of the state. But a push for local and statewide bans has become an increasing focus of the opposition.
Drilling critics have far outnumbered supporters during the public comment period, but the conservation department has also heard from the gas industry and landowners who hoped to lease their property for drilling. Many of them say New York has already delayed for too long, and is paying a price.
''I think the governor's office recognizes that this has gotten much beyond the science and has become an emotional issue or a cause celebre for certain elements,'' said Dennis Holbrook, executive vice president of Norse Energy in Buffalo, who has been active in the industry in the state for 35 years. ''It's time to move the process forward.''
National environmental groups have a complicated history with natural gas. Several, particularly the Sierra Club, have seen it as a bridge fuel toward renewable sources that was cleaner than coal and oil, and a preferred alternative to common mining practices. The relationship between the gas industry and some environmentalists has frayed as the potential impacts of gas drilling, particularly the effects on drinking water supplies, have become apparent in the Western States and in Pennsylvania. Now some former advocates of gas see it not just as an alternative to oil and coal, but also as something crowding out renewable resources like wind and solar power.
But many fracking critics still see the old ties at work.
Claire Sandberg was one of the two founders of Frack Action, which started up in 2010 largely because some antifracking activists worried that established environmentalists seemed resigned to living with gas drilling.
''I think the national groups got themselves in a real bind,'' she said. ''They entered into a marriage of convenience with natural gas because it was too daunting to try to take on coal and gas at the same time. Now they find themselves with a mutiny on their hands.''
''It's time for the environmental movement to grow a spine,'' she added.
Many close to the process say that the fight will become far more complicated than simply deciding whether to ban or to regulate. Options in between could include a ban until further studies are done; rules so tough they amount to a de facto prohibition; bans in parts of the state, like those close to water supplies; regulations that would keep out all but the most responsible companies; and allowing drilling to resume with a pilot program in an area with a history of drilling.
Some involved with the issue say that despite differences, diverse fracking opponents have found ways to work together, and that they will almost certainly need the technical knowledge and the procedural savvy of longtime environmentalists, as well as the passion of the grass-roots groups.
''You have a lot of bricks being thrown at the national organizations, but I don't really think there's as much difference as some people want to see,'' said Bruce Ferguson, a founding member of Catskill Citizens for Safe Energy, which supports a ban. ''No one wants to see fracking go forward under the current regime or the way it's being done in Pennsylvania. Everyone agrees on that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Claire Sandberg, one of the two founders of the grass-roots group Frack Action, said the environmental movement needed to ''grow a spine.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Kate Sinding said the Natural Resources Defense Council's position on hydrofracking had evolved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); SIERRA CLUB (58%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



403 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Iran Sentences America to Die On Spy Charges

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and HARVEY MORRIS; Rick Gladstone reported from New York, and Harvey Morris from London. Reporting was contributed by William J. Broad from New York, Artin Afkhami from Boston, Steven Yaccino from Chicago, and Scott Shane from Washington.

 BODY:
Iran's judiciary on Monday sentenced to death an imprisoned American convicted of espionage for the Central Intelligence Agency. The punishment shocked his family and was imposed against a backdrop of increasingly bellicose relations with the United States over the disputed Iranian nuclear program.
The sentence against the American, Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, 28, a former Marine, was likely to become a new point of contention, and possible bargaining leverage, in Iran's struggle against the West over its nuclear program. A tightening vise of sanctions, which threaten vital oil sales and with them the nation's economy, has left Tehran feeling besieged and pushed relations with the United States and its allies to the lowest ebb since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
In retaliation, Tehran announced on Sunday that it had begun to enrich uranium at a second site, after having threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz to shipping, a measure that would severely curtail oil shipments. 
The details of the case against Mr. Hekmati have been cloaked in secrecy since he was detained in August in Iran, to which his family said he had traveled to visit his grandparents. Official confirmation that he was even in Iranian custody was not provided until last month. The White House and the State Department, noting that Iranian prosecutors have a history of coercing confessions, denied that Mr. Hekmati was a spy and called for his immediate release. The C.I.A. declined to comment.
Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House's National Security Council, said, ''We strongly condemn such a verdict and will work with our partners to convey our condemnation to the Iranian government.''
Iran has a record of arresting and convicting Americans suspected of spying, then freeing them later after bail money has been paid. But rights activists said Mr. Hekmati's case was the first in the nearly 33-year history of estranged relations with the United States in which Iran's Islamic authorities had ordered the execution of an American citizen.
''This whole case is very politically motivated,'' said Hadi Ghaemi, the executive director of the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, an advocacy group based in New York that has been monitoring Mr. Hekmati's case. ''There's absolutely no evidence against him.''
In a statement released by Mr. Hekmati's parents and posted on www.FreeAmir.org, a new Web site, his mother, Behnaz, and father, Ali, said they were ''shocked and terrified by the news that our son, Amir, has been sentenced to death.''
Denying that he was a spy, the parents said, ''We believe that this verdict is the result of a process that was neither transparent nor fair.'' They added, ''His very life is being exploited for political gain.''
Iran's official news media portrayed Mr. Hekmati's prosecution and punishment in totally different terms, saying he had admitted to investigators that he had been sent to Iran by the C.I.A. after a decade of training and that he had been assigned to infiltrate the Intelligence Ministry. Accounts in the state-run media called his presence in Iran part of an ''intricate American plot to carry out espionage activities in the Islamic republic.''
Mr. Hekmati, who was born in Flagstaff, Ariz., and spent part of his youth in Flint, Mich., where some members of his family still live, has not been allowed to communicate with relatives or legal counsel either in Iran or the United States. He is part of a population of an estimated one million Iranian-Americans who have extensive family ties in Iran.
The death sentence, ordered by the Islamic Revolution Court Branch 15 in Tehran, can be appealed within 20 days. But Iranian experts in the United States said the sentence might never be carried out.
The court's order suggested that Iran was willing to go to new lengths to increase its leverage in dealing with what it views as American-led hostility over the nuclear program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes but the United States, the European Union and Israel regard as a cloak to attain a nuclear weapon.
Over the past few years, Iran has endured four rounds of Security Council economic sanctions, the mysterious assassinations of its nuclear scientists, computerized sabotage of its uranium enrichment centrifuges and the death of its top missile expert in an unexplained explosion after having ignored repeated demands by the United Nations to stop enriching uranium.
Now Iran is confronting the possibility of a pre-emptive Israeli military strike on its nuclear facilities, a threatened European Union oil embargo and a new American law that could penalize buyers of Iran's petroleum, its most important export, if the uranium enrichment is not stopped.
The accumulated effects have ravaged Iran's economy and left the government there feeling under assault. It has responded with an offer to restart talks on the nuclear issue, which Turkey has agreed to host. But Iran has coupled its diplomacy with acts of defiance, naval war games and threats to blockade the Strait of Hormuz, a critical Persian Gulf waterway for Middle East oil shipments, should the West restrict Iran's oil sales. Petroleum industry analysts said the price of oil, now hovering above $100 a barrel, could double if Iran carried out that threat.
Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council, an advocacy group critical of Iran's government, called the sentencing of Mr. Hekmati ''part of what the Iranians and the United States are doing right now to position themselves for the coming negotiations in Turkey.''
Mr. Parsi noted that unlike other cases of espionage against Americans, notably those of an Iranian-American journalist in 2009 and three American hikers who were seized on the Iran-Iraq border, who were all freed, this case involves a man, Mr. Hekmati, with a military background.
Mr. Parsi also said that, like many Americans of Iranian descent, Mr. Hekmati had to get an Iranian passport to expedite his travel to Iran. But the Iranian passport means that, in Iran's view, he is an Iranian, even though he was born and raised in the United States and has an American passport. Iran does not recognize dual citizens.
''In this case, the U.S. ability to protect its citizens is very limited,'' Mr. Parsi said. ''I do hope some sort of way out is found.''
Prosecutors charged Mr. Hekmati with receiving espionage training at American bases in Afghanistan and Iraq before infiltrating Iran.
Accounts by the official Islamic Republic News Agency and the semiofficial Fars News Agency said he had been sentenced to death for cooperating with a hostile government and membership in the C.I.A. ''The court found him Corrupt on Earth and Mohareb (waging war on God),'' according to Fars. The formulation is routinely used in cases against those suspected of being enemies of the Islamic republic, and the charge carries the death sentence.
Mr. Hekmati's detention became public last month when Iranian state television broadcast video of him, identifying him as an American-born Iranian-American from Arizona.
In the video, the man identified as Mr. Hekmati said he joined the United States military after graduating from high school in 2001, served in Iraq and received training in languages and espionage.
He said the C.I.A. had sent him to Iran to gain the Iranian authorities' trust by handing over information, some misleading and some accurate. If his first mission succeeded, he said he had been told, there would be more. In the televised confession, Mr. Hekmati spoke in fluent English and Persian. He said he was a C.I.A. operative sent to infiltrate the Intelligence Ministry.
American military officials have been circumspect in describing Mr. Hekmati's background, but gave no indication that he was ever in Afghanistan.
Lt. Col. Stewart T. Upton, a Marine Corps spokesman, responding by e-mail to a query about Mr. Hekmati, said he was in the Marines from August 2001 to August 2005, attained the rank of sergeant and was deployed in Iraq from April to September 2004. Colonel Upton said Mr. Hekmati had trained at Camp Pendleton in California and spent some time at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, Calif.
A former co-worker of Mr. Hekmati's, Mike Hajjar, 24, of West Bloomfield, Mich., said other acquaintances were ''really surprised'' at the news of his arrest, conviction and sentencing in Iran. ''Everybody knows that he's not a spy,'' Mr. Hajjar said. ''He doesn't deserve this. He's one of the best people I've met.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, an American sentenced to death in Iran, is with Iraqi soldiers in an undated image from a video. The Marine Corps said he served in Iraq in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); SENTENCING (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); VERDICTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RELIGION (69%); WEB SITES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (89%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



404 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Conviction Overturned For an Ex-Refco Lawyer

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
7:33 p.m. Updated
A federal appeals court on Monday reversed the conviction of Joseph P. Collins, a former outside lawyer to Refco, the collapsed brokerage firm, ruling that the trial court judge had improper discussions with a juror outside the presence of Mr. Collins's lawyers.
Mr. Collins was found guilty in July 2009 of assisting Refco's senior executives with defrauding its shareholders of $2.4 billion. He was sentenced to seven years in prison, but has been free on bail pending the outcome of his appeal. 
A three-judge panel for the United States Court Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned Mr. Collins's conviction and ruled that he was entitled to a new trial.
''After this long fight, we are very gratified by the Court of Appeals decision,'' said William Schwartz, a lawyer for Mr. Collins.
The spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment on whether it would retry the case.
A retrial of Mr. Collins could be complicated by the death of Santo C. Maggio. The former president of Refco's capital markets unit, Mr. Maggio died last week at the age of 60. Scott Hershman, his former lawyer, confirmed his death.
Mr. Maggio, known as Sandy, was the government's key cooperating witness in the Refco case. He testified in the trials of Mr. Collins and Tone N. Grant, a former senior Refco executive. He also wore a wire to help ensnare Phillip R. Bennett, Refco's chief executive who pleaded guilty to hiding about $430 million in bad debt from the company's auditors and investors. Mr. Grant and Mr. Bennett are both in prison. In exchange for his cooperation, Mr. Maggio was not sentenced to any prison time.
Though it was a scandal from the middle of last decade and before the financial crisis, the Refco case continues to linger.
The New York brokerage firm, which facilitated trades in commodities and futures contracts, collapsed in October 2005 after disclosing Mr. Bennett's fraud. Much of Refco's assets were acquired in bankruptcy by the Man Group, which later spun off the business and renamed it MF Global. Late last year, MF Global filed for bankruptcy.
The Refco case has also haunted Mr. Collins, a former corporate lawyer at Mayer Brown, a large Chicago-based firm. He was charged in 2007 with helping Refco's executives manipulate its balance and hide losses from its investors. It was an unusual white-collar prosecution, as outside corporate lawyers are rarely indicted alongside their clients in accounting fraud cases.
A jury convicted Mr. Collins on five of the 14 securities fraud counts against him. But during deliberations, the foreman sent the judge, Robert P. Patterson, a note that one juror had tried to barter his vote and was refusing to deliberate. Another juror sent a note that the same juror had threatened to cut off his finger.
Judge Patterson interviewed the problematic juror and emphasized the importance of resolving the case outside the presence of Mr. Collins's lawyers.
''This sequence of events deprived Mr. Collins of his right to be present at every stage of the trial,'' wrote Judge Denny Chin in the opinion. The right to be present at every trial stage is rooted in the Constitution, including the Fifth Amendment ''due process'' clause.
''We cannot say with fair assurance that the judgment was not substantially swayed by the district court's errors in this case,'' said Judge Chin.
If the United States attorney in Manhattan decides to retry Mr. Collins, the government could try to have Mr. Maggio's testimony from the first trial read into the record, say legal experts.
Mr. Maggio, who pleaded guilty to participating in the Refco fraud, testified during Mr. Collins's 2010 trial, walking the jury through what he said was the company's complex accounting fraud scheme.
Federal prosecutors also asked Mr. Maggio about his new life since his Wall Street career. He said that he lived in Naples, Fla., and ran a fishing charter business called Starting Over Charters. The name of the company was not, as many had suspected, a reference to his post-Refco life.
Mr. Maggio explained to the jury that ''Starting Over'' was what he named his boat when he was divorced in 1982.
''My ex-wife also bought a boat and called it 'Free Again,''' he added.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS (91%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); VERDICTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); INDICTMENTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ACCOUNTING (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); BAIL (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FUTURES (68%)

COMPANY: MAYER BROWN LLP (58%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%); MAN GROUP PLC (52%)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



405 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Mormon Church's Plans For Land Upset Harlem

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
The wider world does not often glimpse the internal disputes of the Mormon Church. Formally known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the fast-growing religion is expanding in places as far-flung as Africa and Latin America, but most big decisions are still made centrally by a church hierarchy in Salt Lake City.
Recently, though, a debate over a ramshackle church property in Harlem has spilled into public view. And perhaps it is no surprise what subject could raise passions strong enough to override Mormons' aversion to airing differences outside the church: Manhattan real estate.
What is at stake is, at first glance, extraordinarily modest: a crumbling, windowless, one-story building on 129th Street between Lenox Avenue/Malcolm X Boulevard and Fifth Avenue, and the grassy vacant lot beside it. Harlem's first Mormon congregation met in the building before moving in 2005 to a larger, newly built church around the corner at 128th Street and Lenox. The congregation and some of its non-Mormon neighbors still use the windblown lot to grow vegetables, train Cub Scouts and host family barbecues. 
Now, though, church officials in Utah have decided to sell the property to a residential developer. They rejected two proposals that would have kept the garden and housed community services next door -- one proposal from a neighborhood nonprofit organization and another from members of the Harlem congregation.
Suddenly, the unprepossessing property represents much more.
The Mormons find themselves torn between two charitable missions -- the global social welfare projects that go hand in hand with its energetic proselytizing, which proceeds from the sale will support; and the needs of Harlem, where the mixed-race congregation has achieved a hard-won measure of acceptance despite the church's fraught history with African-Americans, who were barred from the church's ministry until 1978.
Neighbors who enjoy good relations with the church fear a rare chunk of open space will be lost to the gentrification that has washed across Harlem over the past decade, improving community life in some ways and threatening it in others.
''It's a disappointment,'' said Rachel Tew, who has lived on the block for decades and is a member of a Harlem land trust that tried to persuade the church to give it the land or sell at a discount. ''The more condos you build, the more expensive it becomes for the little guy like me.''
Ms. Tew, who is not a church member, holds a key to the church garden and coordinates with members to open it for neighbors' parties. Such events, she says, bring back former residents who fled poverty and drug dealing and show them how things have improved. She also grows vegetables there.
''Tomatoes, cucumbers, red, yellow and green peppers, thyme,'' she said, a little wistfully. ''Rosemary. Lettuce. I grew a lot of herbs, purple basil. Different things.''
All this comes at a time of increased attention to Mormons. Mitt Romney, a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, is a Mormon. And New York subways are plastered with ''I'm a Mormon'' advertisements featuring Mormons of color -- some from the Harlem congregation -- that display the religion's growing diversity.
So church officials were eager to emphasize that the sale did not reflect a lack of concern for the neighborhood.
''The church has deep respect and regard for the traditional character of the community of Harlem,'' said Ahmed Corbitt, a church spokesman.
He said the church's gleaming new meeting house demonstrated its investment in Harlem. On March 7, it will hold an African American Family History conference offering free genealogical research. The multimillion-dollar building, like other Mormon churches, was financed by the tithing of Mormons worldwide; selling the old property, he said, would replenish those coffers and help finance churches, agricultural projects and ''storehouses'' centers that give out free food -- in needy places around the world.
He said that the central headquarters knew best how to allocate resources, and that while local congregations' recommendations were considered, ''local members and leaders wouldn't have that global perspective.''
But Wayne Collier, a Harlem congregation member, said the church was missing an opportunity. He said he and others had proposed turning the land into a ''welfare center,'' with a cannery, storehouse and employment center -- all institutions the church currently has scattered from Inwood to New Jersey. He said his proposal was to keep the garden and build the center next door, with rental apartments above it to finance that project and others.
''We think there's a way to meet local needs, serve the community and still make enough money that we can continue to serve those global needs,'' he said. ''It seems like they missed a chance to hold onto property that they would have a hard time getting back.''
With the recession challenging charitable institutions from the sprawling Mormon church to tiny Harlem nonprofit groups, the stakes end up being high. But beyond that, the 129th Street property has a symbolic and sentimental value to local residents.
The congregation met for a time in Sylvia's restaurant, where Polly Dickey, who calls herself ''one of the originals,'' disliked seeing empty liquor bottles (Mormons shun alcohol and caffeine). The church bought the one-story windowless building from the Jehovah's Witnesses. Family nights and square dances transformed the bare-bones building into a ''family atmosphere,'' Ms. Dickey recalled.
Joseph Appiah, an immigrant from Ghana who helped found the congregation, said young people from the block joined the church and ''turned their lives around,'' going on to college. Today, Jessica Bruno, a current member, uses the garden to teach the church's Cub Scout troop to build fires and plant vegetables.
''We garden,'' said Mr. Collier, who grew up Mormon in North Carolina. ''It's part of our identity.''
Adjoining the garden are two properties owned by Ms. Tew's organization, the Rev. Linnette C. Williamson Memorial Park Association, the trust that sought to buy the church land at a discount. One, a grassy lawn, is used as a play space by local day care centers; the other is a community garden.
Paul Coppa, a lawyer for the trust, said that church officials in Utah had no interest in his proposal and that while he believed he could have made a deal with the local congregation, he was told they had ''no say.''
The church declined to discuss the sale price, but similar lots have sold for more than $1 million.
The developer in contract to buy the property, Yoni Bak of Kane Ventures, said his company strove to preserve local character. He declined to specify his plans; his Web site shows an image of a six-story ''luxury'' condominium building his company is constructing two blocks away.
The changes on the block can be seen in action. Workers are refurbishing the portico of a neighboring building, where a new cafe, Lenox Coffee, with exposed-brick walls, leather sofas and $1.75 coffee, hosts white and black professionals with laptops, many from a new condo across the street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A garden in Harlem owned by the Mormon Church, whose Utah officials decided to sell it to a developer. ''It's a disappointment,'' said Rachel Tew, left, head of the block association. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); RELIGION (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CHARITIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



406 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Paying a Price, Long After the Crime

BYLINE: By ALFRED BLUMSTEIN and KIMINORI NAKAMURA. 
Alfred Blumstein is a professor of urban systems and operations research at Carnegie Mellon University. Kiminori Nakamura is an assistant professor of criminology and criminal justice at the University of Maryland, College Park.

 BODY:
IN 2010, the Chicago Public Schools declined to hire Darrell Langdon for a job as a boiler-room engineer, because he had been convicted of possessing a half-gram of cocaine in 1985, a felony for which he received probation. It didn't matter that Mr. Langdon, a single parent of two sons, had been clean since 1988 and hadn't run into further trouble with the law. Only after The Chicago Tribune wrote about his case did the school system reverse its decision and offer him the job.
A stunning number of young people are arrested for crimes in this country, and those crimes can haunt them for the rest of their lives. In 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson's Crime Commission found that about half of American males could expect to be arrested for a nontraffic offense some time in their lives, mostly in their late teens and early 20s. An article just published in the journal Pediatrics shows how the arrest rate has grown -- by age 23, 30 percent of Americans have been arrested, compared with 22 percent in 1967. The increase reflects in part the considerable growth in arrests for drug offenses and domestic violence. 
The impact of these arrests is felt for years. The ubiquity of criminal-background checks and the efficiency of information technology in maintaining those records and making them widely available, have meant that millions of Americans -- even those who served probation or parole but were never incarcerated -- continue to pay a price long after the crime. In November the American Bar Association released a database identifying more than 38,000 punitive provisions that apply to people convicted of crimes, pertaining to everything from public housing to welfare assistance to occupational licenses. More than two-thirds of the states allow hiring and professional-licensing decisions to be made on the basis of an arrest alone.
Employers understandably want to protect their employees and customers from risk. Yet at the same time, there is a growing public interest in facilitating job opportunities for those who have stayed crime-free for a reasonable period of time. The weak economy and a rethinking of the logic of mass incarceration -- driven in large part by budget pressures -- have also brought attention to the situations of ex-offenders like Mr. Langdon, who face the collateral consequences of conviction long after their involvement with the criminal justice system has ended. Federal authorities are beginning to pay attention. Last April, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. urged state attorneys general to review laws and policies ''to determine whether those that impose burdens on individuals convicted of crimes without increasing public safety should be eliminated.''
It is well established that the risk of recidivism drops steadily with time, but there is still the question of how long is long enough. By looking at data for more than 88,000 people who had their first arrest in New York State in 1980, and tracking their subsequent criminal histories over the next 25 years, we estimate the ''redemption time'' -- the time it takes for an individual's likelihood of being arrested to be close to that of individuals with no criminal records -- to be about 10 to 13 years. We also found that about 30 percent of the first-time offenders in 1980 were never arrested again, in New York or anywhere else.
Employers could apply their own judgments around those estimates, but the real problem is the state and local rules -- often embedded in statutes -- that restrict employment or licensing for the rest of the individual's life. In New York, former offenders can be forever denied licenses for certain jobs, ranging from beer distributor to real estate broker. Such ''forever rules'' -- which fall heavily on minorities, who are particularly likely to be arrested -- are inherently unfair.
We propose that the ''forever rules'' be replaced by rules that provide for the expiration of a criminal record. We believe it is unreasonable for someone to be hounded by a single arrest or conviction that happened more than 20 years earlier -- and for many kinds of crimes, the records should be sealed even sooner. The state, as well as private employers, should face a heavy burden to demonstrate the need for any rule that imposes consequences on someone who has remained crime-free decades after a single offense. Yes, there are legitimate exceptions for high-security positions in law enforcement and national security -- and there can be exemptions in particular cases; banks cannot afford to hire someone convicted of financial fraud.
A number of states have placed limits on the availability of stale criminal records. Under a law that will take effect in May, Massachusetts will limit employers' access to information about convictions to 5 years for misdemeanors and 10 years for felonies. And the new law will protect employers from due-diligence liability suits if someone they hire in accord with these restrictions commits a further offense.
Policies that encourage employers to hire people who made a mistake in the past but have since rebuilt their lives would not only help those people, but also our economy and our society. With unemployment so high, we need to make it easier, not harder, for people to find jobs. And by embracing the principle that having paid the price for crime, there should be a limit on the time they are made to suffer, we would be giving true meaning to the ideals of rehabilitation and redemption.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEVE ATTARDO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PAROLE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); PROBATION (78%); COCAINE (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MEN (76%); FELONIES (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (51%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



407 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Tide of Golfers

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
KAPALUA, Hawaii -- On Wednesday nights before a tournament, K. J. Choi visits the Korean Baptist church closest to the course he is playing, a practice that dates to when he was the PGA Tour's first and only full-time player from South Korea. In the familiar hymns, sung in his native tongue, Choi experiences a connection, a communion, that he struggled at first to forge on the tour, where the courses and the language were foreign to him.
The echoes of home that Choi had to search for a decade ago, he will be able to find this week on the practice green and driving range at Waialae Country Club in Honolulu, the site of the year's first full-field tour event. Choi's prayer, finally, has been answered; the door he cracked open in 2000 is being knocked down in 2012 by 11 players of South Korean descent, led by a baby-faced 20-year-old, Seung-Yul Noh, who is poised to become golf's next rising star.
''I'm so happy,'' Choi, an eight-time tour winner, said last week. ''It's my dream to see this happening.'' 
For more than a decade, South Korean women have worn a path to the winner's circle in professional golf. Two years before Choi made his PGA Tour debut, Se Ri Pak won four events, including two majors, as a rookie on the L.P.G.A. Tour. She thus opened a pipeline that has flooded the women's game with golfers known collectively as the Seoul Sisters and infused the tour with corporate and broadcasting partners based in Asia.
But for reasons ingrained in their culture, South Korean men have lagged behind the women on golf's world stage. J. S. Kang, a sports agent based in the United States who has lived in South Korea, said the country's two-year compulsory military service had been a major factor, pulling promising men from the game during what would be the formative years of their careers.
Until recently, sports for boys were seen, essentially, as a refuge for those who could not keep up academically.
''Being a male-oriented society, sons are expected to be the doctors, the lawyers, the professionals,'' Kang said. ''There is more of an inclination to put a male on the academic track than the athletic track.''
In 2009, a Korean man other than Choi made a huge splash in the United States, Y. E. Yang. He overtook Tiger Woods at the P.G.A. Championship to become the first Asian golfer to win a men's major.
The ripples from Yang's breakthrough have extended far and wide. Last year, three South Korean men played their way onto the international squad for the Presidents Cup. And over the past two years, five South Koreans -- the most from any country outside the United States -- have earned their PGA Tour cards with top-25 finishes at qualifying school, a cutthroat, three-stage audition.
''I think Y. E. Yang's win has shifted people's priorities a little bit,'' Kang said. ''When they see the prestige and pride that's garnered worldwide by a win like that, and the national pride he engendered by taking down the most dominant player in the world, all of a sudden, becoming a pro golfer becomes a more aspirational pursuit.''
There is every reason to think that men's golf, ever more a global sport, will continue to add players from Asia. In November, the tour announced that South Korea would host the 2015 Presidents Cup, citing the game's growth in Asia as the main selling point.
''I have no doubt this will improve the golf culture and golf market in Korea,'' Yang said at the time.
Kevin Na, a Seoul native whose family immigrated to California when he was 8, said the feats of Pak, Choi, Yang and Woods, whose iconic status transcends geographical borders, were beads on the abacus for calculating the worth of a career in golf for the men of his generation.
''Sports nowadays, it's a popular thing to do,'' Na said, ''because if you're successful, there's a lot of prestige in that.''
Millions of South Koreans stayed up all night to watch live coverage of Pak's victory over Jenny Chuasiriporn, an amateur, in a 20-hole playoff at the 1998 United States Open.
At a time when South Koreans had scant confidence in their economic might, Pak became a sport's gold standard. Led by her 25 tour victories, South Koreans have won 101 L.P.G.A. titles since 1998, including four of the last seven United States Women's Opens. This year, 42 of the L.P.G.A.'s 128 international players are from South Korea, which has fewer golf courses than South Florida.
South Koreans descended on the L.P.G.A. tour so fast, and in such force, that their collective dominance overshadowed their individual personalities. Their absence of fluency in English sparked much hand-wringing, which Kang, whose clients include several L.P.G.A. players, interpreted as outsiders' misplaced frustration with the tour's extreme makeover.
No such reaction occurred on the PGA Tour, where Choi remained a novelty for years until he was joined by Na in 2004 and by Charlie Wi in 2005. Na said he thought the men's game was too deep for any single country, including the United States, to dominate the tour, and he has a point. In 2011, players from nine countries won tournaments.
Choi, the defending Players champion, has an easy smile that masked a low-grade melancholy in his first year on tour in the United States.
''There were so many adjustments,'' Choi said. ''The food, the courses, the language, the culture. When it was difficult, I told myself I wasn't alone and that the Lord is with me.''
Choi, 41, figures to be lonely no more. He is familiar with Noh, who outdueled him to win a European Tour event in 2010. A long hitter and a deft putter, Noh posted top-30 finishes last year at the United States and British Opens. He said he locked in his career ambitions in 2005 when at 13 years 8 months he became the youngest member of the Korean national team.
''Then I thought I would like to become a really good pro golfer,'' Noh wrote in an e-mail.
When Choi was Noh's age, pro golf was a distant dream. A son of a rice farmer, Choi completed his military duty in his early 20s. He served as a sentry by night and hit golf balls by dawn's light, motivated, he said, to do what nobody thought was possible: become the first South Korean to earn his PGA Tour playing privileges.
Noh said he was deferring his service until after golf made its debut in the 2016 Summer Olympics. If he earns a medal, he said, he will be exempt from duty.
With a wry smile, Choi said, ''My life and his life at 20 years old -- big difference.''
The first generation of children born in Choi's shadow is coming of age and includes Na, 28; Sang-Moon Bae, 25, who won three times on the Japan Tour in 2011; Kyung-Tae Kim, 25, who was on the Presidents Cup team with Yang and Choi; and Bio Kim, 21, a 6-foot beanpole who made 10 cuts on the tour last year and finished No. 162 on the money list.
''A couple of years ago, even for me, the PGA Tour felt like it's for other guys because there's so many great players,'' Bio Kim said. ''A lot of Koreans never thought about trying for Q school. We thought you couldn't try because the tour was too successful and too hard for us.''
Then Yang stared down Woods, No. 1 in the world, in the final round of the P.G.A. at Hazeltine National. Yang chipped in for eagle on one hole and hit a 206-yard hybrid to around 10 feet on the last, then made the birdie putt to hand Woods his first loss in 15 events in which he held the lead entering the final round.
''I was watching on TV and I was in shock,'' Bio Kim said. ''After that, it felt like anything was possible. So that's what I'm trying to do, follow in the footsteps of K. J. and Y. E.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: K. J. Choi, top, led the wave of South Korean men to the PGA Tour in 2000. Now 11 players of Korean descent are on the tour, including Seung-Yul Noh, a budding star. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ROBERT LABERGE/GETTY IMAGES) (B10)
 Seung-Yul Noh, left, and K. J. Choi in 2010. Noh, 20, has won twice internationally, and Choi, 41, has eight PGA Tour titles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMARUL AKHIR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (72%); WOMEN (70%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) HAWAII, USA (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



408 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (IFC) IN THE LOOP (2009) While giving an interview to the BBC, the British minister of international development (Tom Hollander) departs from the official line and becomes the focus of tensions between Britain and the United States as they gear up to invade a Middle Eastern country. Given a chance to backtrack, he digs himself in deeper. Peter Capaldi plays the British press officer in charge of controlling the spin. James Gandolfini, above right with Mr. Capaldi, is a dovish Pentagon general. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott said, ''The genius of 'In the Loop,' directed by Armando Iannucci and written by a crack team of British wits, is that it turns this mountain into a series of festering molehills.'' While the film is ''a highly disciplined inquiry into a very serious subject,'' he added, ''it is also, line by filthy line, scene by chaotic scene, by far the funniest big-screen satire in recent memory.''
9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE! WITH KELLY The Nascar driver Carl Edwards, who narrowly lost the 2011 Sprint Cup Series title to Tony Stewart, is the guest co-host with Kelly Ripa. 
6 P.M. (MSNBC); 7 P.M. (CNN, 13); 8 P.M. (Fox Business Network, Fox News Channel); 11 P.M. (13) PRIMARY COVERAGE Results from the New Hampshire primary.
8 P.M. (Sundance) L'AUBERGE ESPAGNOLE (2002) Xavier Rousseau, an uptight Parisian student played by Romain Duris, moves into a communal apartment in Barcelona and soon learns the international language of love and friendship in this comedy from Cedric Klapisch. Audrey Tatou is Xavier's worried girlfriend; right, from top, Kevin Bishop, Federico D'Anna, Kelly Reilly, Barnaby Metschurat and Cristina Brondo round out the cast. '' 'L'Auberge Espagnole' presents an appealing and persuasive picture of European integration, in which national differences, which once sparked military and political conflict, are preserved because they make life sexier and more interesting,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''The ending, though, feels like a bit of a cop-out, as Mr. Klapisch decides that Xavier's pleasant year abroad must yield a lesson.'' That is, his job with the European Union and his freedom in Barcelona are aspects of the same phenomenon: ''the transformation of Europe from a battleground to a consumerist, hedonist playground.''
9 P.M. (Lifetime) DANCE MOMS A new round of antics begins as the stage mothers at the Abby Lee Dance Company in Pittsburgh go to bat for their budding ballerinas.
9 P.M. (A&E) SHIPPING WARS Independent shipping companies bid to transport items that traditional carriers won't touch in this new series, starting with a 4,000-pound steel horse and an enormous Venus flytrap.
9 P.M. (HBO Signature) VALENTINE'S DAY (2010) Ashton Kutcher, playing a Los Angeles florist privy to any number of botched romantic situations in this film from Garry Marshall, leads a cast that includes Jessica Alba, Kathy Bates, Jessica Biel, Bradley Cooper, Eric Dane, Patrick Dempsey, Hector Elizondo, Jamie Foxx (below left with Mr. Kutcher), Jennifer Garner, Anne Hathaway, Julia Roberts and others. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis said, ''the best and really only sensible thing to say about the dire romantic comedy 'Valentine's Day,' which is neither romantic nor remotely comedic, is that it makes you appreciate and long for the breeziness, acting and basic competency -- the decent lighting, focused cameras and choreographed action -- of 'Love Actually,' the ingratiating British movie it transparently and ineptly rips off.''
10 P.M. (BET) THE GAME Season 5 in this series about romance in the National Football League begins as Melanie (Tia Mowry) struggles with the accusation by Derwin (Pooch Hall) that she had an abortion. Tasha (Wendy Raquel Robinson) and Malik (Hosea Chanchez) talk relationships, and a wild escapade comes back to haunt Jason (Coby Bell).
10 P.M. (NBC) PARENTHOOD Adam (Peter Krause) unintentionally grabs the attention from Crosby (Dax Shepard) when a newspaper publishes an article about the Luncheonette.
10 P.M. (Bravo) TABATHA TAKES OVER Tabatha Coffey kicks off a fourth season of salon revamps in Minneapolis, where Suzanne Erickson, the owner of Jungle Red, acts more like a teenager than a boss and has put the responsibility for her out-of-control staff on Kari, her daughter. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLA DOVE/IFC FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); NASCAR RACING (66%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (64%); BALLET (62%); DANCE (62%); DANCE COMPANIES (62%); DANCERS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); GUEST CO INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC3699 ELECTRICAL MACHINERY EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



409 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: BP Makes Amends

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Today, I'm going to say some nice things about BP and some not so nice things about the lawyers who are suing BP. Please don't spill your coffee.
As horrific as the Deepwater Horizon accident was in April 2010 -- killing 11 rig employees, while pouring millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico -- BP has performed quite admirably in its aftermath. It has spared no expense in cleaning up the oil. It has set aside $1 billion to restore the environment and coastal ecosystem. It underwrote an advertising campaign to lure tourists back to the Gulf Coast. Today, less than two years after the spill, the beaches are sparkling, most fishermen are working and many of the hotels are full. 
At the urging of President Obama, BP also agreed to set up a $20 billion fund to compensate anyone who could show that they'd been economically harmed by the accident. Ken Feinberg, the former administrator of the Sept. 11 victim compensation fund, was put in charge of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, as it was named. Feinberg has since paid out $6.3 billion to nearly 200,000 claimants. Daniel Becnel, a lawyer who has settled thousands of claims, says that his clients often receive more money from Feinberg than they would have if they had gone to court. ''You couldn't have done a better job than Feinberg did,'' says Becnel.
To put it another way, the Gulf Coast Claims Facility has been a remarkably effective alternative to the cumbersome way damages are usually meted out after a corporate accident: through the tort system. Compare it, for instance, with the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska, which took nearly two decades of court battles for the plaintiffs to finally get around $1.3 billion.
Indeed, the whole point of the Gulf Coast fund is to keep cases out of court; in return for compensation, the claimants have to agree not to sue for further damages. There is much that is right with this approach. Victims don't have to wait years -- or decades -- to get their money. The uncertainty of litigation is eliminated. The victims get monetary damages, just as they would if they won a court case, but without the expense of a lawsuit. They also pay less in legal fees. And if they don't like what is being offered, well, they can still sue. It is, as they say, a win-win.
Except, it turns out, for a certain group of plaintiffs' lawyers who, despite the relative ease of using the claims facility, is insisting on pursuing litigation against BP. They say they have more than 100,000 cases, though none are for big money, like the injured workers' cases; Feinberg has even settled most of those. For months, these lawyers have been preparing for a ''liability trial,'' currently set for late February.
However that trial turns out, it's largely pointless: BP has already conceded liability, which it has backed with $20 billion. The lawyers' motive can't be to get more money than that; it's far more than any court would ever award. Punitive damages can't be the reason either: federal law prevents most of the claimants from getting punitive damages. No, there is only one reason this litigation is taking place. The lawyers want the kind of big fees that only come with big lawsuits. Yet Feinberg's approach is proving so popular with claimants that many of their cases are evaporating.
So here's what they did. They went to the federal judge handling the BP litigation and asked him to establish a ''reserve'' that would be made up of 6 percent of any future claims settled by Feinberg. (They also want 4 percent from any damages Alabama and Louisiana get.) The judge, Carl Barbier -- a former plaintiffs' lawyer himself -- agreed to do so without even holding a hearing. Eventually, some or all of that reserve would be used to pay the lawyers. That's right: They are trying to grab fees from clients they've never represented. Amazing. (Judge Barbier recently backed away a bit from his ruling and is allowing both sides to file briefs that are due on Thursday.)
When I asked how they could possibly justify this fee grab, I was told that their lawsuit was the main reason Feinberg was willing to be so generous with BP's money. But Tony Buzbee, another lawyer who has settled many claims through the fund, blew a gasket when I told him that. ''They have not done one thing so far that has benefited my clients,'' he said. ''My clients have chosen not to be a part of their litigation. Why in the world should they have to pay them?''
It's a good question. The Gulf Coast Claims Facility has the potential to serve as a model for handling future industrial accidents. It has proved that it can compensate victims quickly and fairly without the ordeal and cost of litigation. But, for that to happen, it's not just companies that have to put aside their greed. So do the lawyers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BP GULF SPILL LITIGATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TORTS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); BEACHES (75%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



410 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Shares Continue Rally Ahead of Earnings Season

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Last week's stock rally was extended on Monday, as European leaders discussed shoring up the euro and investors awaited the start of the fourth-quarter earnings season.
Measures of industrial, energy and financial shares had the biggest sector gains in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Shares of Alcoa, the aluminum producer, rose almost 3 percent before the company reported its quarterly results after the markets closed. Broadcom rallied 2.5 percent after Deutsche Bank said soft fourth-quarter results for chip makers created a buying opportunity for the industry.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.2 percent to 1,280.70. Last week, the gauge gained 1.6 percent, the second-best start of a year since 2006. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 32.77 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,392.69. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 2.34 points, or 0.1 percent, at 2,676.56. 
''We'll see some earnings growth this year, but not a lot,'' said Kevin Caron, a market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus in Florham Park, N.J. ''As long as U.S. fundamentals continue to move in a positive direction and as long as investors are comforted by the actions taken to maintain liquidity in Europe, the markets will be more complacent.''
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France sought on Monday to devise a plan for rescuing the euro over the next three months. Euro zone leaders may complete their new budget rule book by Jan. 30, one month ahead of schedule, and they are considering accelerating capital contributions to the bailout fund being set up this year to stem the debt crisis.
American corporations ended 2011 with the slowest profit growth in two years as the mending economy was met by a European slump that vexed companies reliant on global sales. S.& P. 500 companies, which beat analysts' estimates in the previous 11 quarters, are forecast to report a 6 percent increase in per-share profit during the September-December period, according to projections compiled by Bloomberg.
American companies ''are the cleanest dirty shirt, but we have to ask the question to what extent are they being hit on revenue and to what extent can they continue to contain costs,'' Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive of Pacific Investment Management Company, the world's largest manager of bond funds, said during an interview on Bloomberg Television.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 1/32, to 100 13/32. The yield remained unchanged from Friday at 1.96 percent.
Alcoa, the first Dow company to announce results for the fourth quarter, rose 0.4 percent in after-hours trading after gaining 2.9 percent, to $9.43, in regular trading. After the market closed, Alcoa reported its first quarterly loss in more than two years, in part because of lower aluminum prices. The loss of 3 cents a share, excluding restructuring costs, matched the average projection from 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Other industrial companies also gained. Caterpillar added 1.4 percent to $97.10. Schlumberger advanced 1.5 percent to $68.82. Bank of America increased 1.5 percent to $6.27.
Semiconductor shares rallied after Deutsche Bank raised the industry to overweight from equal weight. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 2 percent.
Netflix, the streaming movie and DVD-by-mail service, increased 13.8 percent to $98.18, for the biggest advance in the S.& P. 500. The company forecast that it would attract millions of subscribers within a few years to the Internet film and television service it started in Britain and Ireland on Monday.
Inhibitex, a biopharmaceutical firm, soared 140 percent, to $23.70, after Bristol-Myers Squibb agreed to buy it to increase its position in hepatitis C medicines.
Other hepatitis C drug developers also rallied. Idenix Pharmaceuticals surged 37 percent to $9.66. Achillion Pharmaceuticals jumped 23 percent to $9.72.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEBT NOTES (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BOND FUNDS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (56%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (70%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (62%); ALCOA INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BROADCOM CORP (57%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (70%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (70%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (55%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



411 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: A Fine for Not Using a Biofuel That Doesn't Exist

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the companies that supply motor fuel close the books on 2011, they will pay about $6.8 million in penalties to the Treasury because they failed to mix a special type of biofuel into their gasoline and diesel as required by law.
But there was none to be had. Outside a handful of laboratories and workshops, the ingredient, cellulosic biofuel, does not exist. 
In 2012, the oil companies expect to pay even higher penalties for failing to blend in the fuel, which is made from wood chips or the inedible parts of plants like corncobs. Refiners were required to blend 6.6 million gallons into gasoline and diesel in 2011 and face a quota of 8.65 million gallons this year.
''It belies logic,'' Charles T. Drevna, the president of the National Petrochemicals and Refiners Association, said of the 2011 quota. And raising the quota for 2012 when there is no production makes even less sense, he said.
Penalizing the fuel suppliers demonstrates what happens when the federal government really, really wants something that technology is not ready to provide. In fact, while it may seem harsh that the Environmental Protection Agency is penalizing them for failing to do the impossible, the agency is being lenient by the standards of the law, the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act.
The law, aimed at reducing the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, its reliance on oil imported from hostile places and the export of dollars to pay for it, includes provisions to increase the efficiency of vehicles as well as incorporate renewable energy sources into gasoline and diesel.
It requires the use of three alternative fuels: car and truck fuel made from cellulose, diesel fuel made from biomass and fuel made from biological materials but with a 50 percent reduction in greenhouse gases. Only the cellulosic fuel is commercially unavailable. As for meeting the quotas in the other categories, the refiners will not close their books until February and are not sure what will happen.
The goal set by the law for vehicle fuel from cellulose was 250 million gallons for 2011 and 500 million gallons for 2012. (These are small numbers relative to the American fuel market; the E.P.A. estimates that gasoline sales in 2012 will amount to about 135 billion gallons, and highway diesel, about 51 billion gallons.)
Even advocates of renewable fuel acknowledge that the refiners are at least partly correct in complaining about the penalties.
''From a taxpayer/consumer standpoint, it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense that we would require blenders to pay fines or fees or whatever for stuff that literally isn't available,'' said Dennis V. McGinn, a retired vice admiral who serves on the American Council on Renewable Energy.
The standards for cellulosic fuel are part of an overall goal of having 36 billion gallons of biofuels incorporated annually by 2022. But substantial technical progress would be needed to meet that -- and lately it has been hard to come by.
Michael J. McAdams, executive director of the Advanced Biofuels Association, said the state of the technology for turning biological material like wood chips or nonfood plants straight into hydrocarbons -- instead of relying on conversion by nature over millions of years, which is how crude oil originates -- was advancing but was not yet ready for commercial introduction.
Of the technologies that are being tried out, he added, ''There are some that are closer to the beaker and some that are closer to the barrel.''
The Texas renewable fuels company KiOR, for example, has broken ground on a plant in Columbus, Miss., that is supposed to start turning Southern yellow pine chips into 11 million gallons a year of gasoline and diesel components in the fourth quarter of 2012, although Matthew Hargarten, a spokesman, said, ''Obviously, timelines change.''
Mr. McGinn of the council on renewable energy, defends the overall energy statute. Even if the standards for 2011 and 2012 are not met, he said, ''I am absolutely convinced from a national security perspective and an economic perspective that the renewable fuel standard, writ large, is the right thing to do.'' With oil insecurity and climate change related to greenhouse gas emissions as worrisome as ever, advocates say, there is strong reason to press forward.
The oil industry does not agree.
Mr. Drevna of the refiners association argued that in contrast to 2007, when Congress passed the law, ''all of a sudden we're starting to find tremendous resources of our own, oil and natural gas, here in the United States, because of fracking,'' referring to a drilling process that involves injecting chemicals and water into underground rock to release gas and oil.
What is more, the industry expects the 1,700-mile Keystone Pipeline, which would run from oil sands deposits in Canada to the Gulf Coast, to provide more fuel for refineries, he said.
But Cathy Milbourn, an E.P.A. spokeswoman, said that her agency still believed that the 8.65-million-gallon quota for cellulosic ethanol for 2012 was ''reasonably attainable.'' By setting a quota, she added, ''we avoid a situation where real cellulosic biofuel production exceeds the mandated volume,'' which would weaken demand.
The underlying problem is that Congress legislated changes that laboratories and factories have not succeeded in producing. This is not for want of trying, and efforts continue.
One possible early source is the energy company Poet, a large producer of ethanol from corn kernels. The company is doing early work now on a site in Emmetsburg, Iowa, that is supposed to produce up to 25 million gallons a year of fuel alcohol beginning in 2013 from corn cobs.
And Mascoma, a company partly owned by General Motors, announced last month that it would get up to $80 million from the Energy Department to help build a plant in Kinross, Mich., that is supposed to make fuel alcohol from wood waste. Valero Energy, the oil company, and the State of Michigan are also providing funds.
Yet other cellulosic fuel efforts have faltered. A year ago, after it was offered more than $150 million in government grants, Range Fuels closed a commercial factory in Soperton, Ga., where pine chips were to be turned into fuel alcohols, because it ran into technological problems.
Airlines have had marginally more success with renewable fuels, but mostly because they have been willing to pay huge sums for sample quantities. Alaska Airlines said recently it had paid $17 a gallon. Lufthansa plans to fly a Boeing 747 from Frankfurt to Dulles International Airport near Washington using 40 tons of a biofuel mix.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cellulosic biofuel, made of plant waste, is not commercially available. (B1)
At the South Dakota plant, Poet is testing its technology and the economics of producing ethanol from plant waste.
 Fermentation tanks at a demonstration-scale cellulosic plant in Scotland, S.D., built by Poet, an ethanol producer that is planning a commercial-scale plant in Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID EGGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (91%); BIOFUELS (91%); BIOMASS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



412 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Scientist's Online Interviews Draw His Peers Out of Lecture Mode

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The physicist Cesar Hidalgo is not a late-night TV host, but he plays one on the Internet.
In October, with support from two Media Laboratory videographers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Paula Aguilera and Jonathan Williams, Dr. Hidalgo began posting online a series of video interviews with local scientists. He began with Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, a physicist and network scientist who was Dr. Hidalgo's faculty graduate adviser at Notre Dame, and then quickly added seven more interviews crossing back and forth between the natural and the social sciences.
The series, ''Cambridge Nights: Conversations About a Life in Science,'' is intended to allow scientists to open up about their lives, their work and their views of the world. In one episode, for instance, Marc Vidal of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School talks about systems biology. In another, Ricardo Hausmann of the Center for International Development at Harvard discusses economic development. 
So far, the project has been underwritten with Dr. Hidalgo's faculty funds, and it has a relatively tiny audience, numbering in the thousands. But the project has been well enough received that Dr. Hidalgo is about to produce a second season including the experimental psychologist Steven Pinker, the internist and social scientist Nicholas Christakis, and the biologist and mathematician Martin Nowak.
For Dr. Hidalgo, who researches the interplay of physics, network science and economic development, ''Cambridge Nights'' is a vehicle for celebrating the intensely intellectual world he discovered when he arrived in Boston in 2008. In 2010, he joined the faculty of the M.I.T. Media Laboratory and found it conducive both to his interdisciplinary research interests and to his ideas for sharing the intellectual hothouse he had encountered with a broader audience.
''My goal is to create content for a relatively highly educated audience who appreciate material that is not dumbed down and has some technical depth as well,'' he said. ''The second goal is to document these scientists. There is little video documentation of many scientists.''
Admittedly a niche market, it is a growing one, Dr. Hidalgo asserted. Indeed, the success of the TED video lectures and Edge.org -- a Web site that John Brockman, an author and a book agent, created in 1996 and that has published dozens of video and text ''conversations'' with scientists -- is evidence that the Internet has made it possible to gather small audiences intensely interested in subjects frequently ignored by the general news media.
''The nice thing about this is that he can try it and see what sticks,'' said Richard Sergay, a veteran science and technology television producer who develops programs for Discovery's Curiosity.com Web site. ''The more accessible he makes it, the better chance of survival it has.''
Dr. Hidalgo acknowledged that he was making it up as he went along. He starts the interviews, which have ranged in length from 20 to 45 minutes, by asking questions that draw out what the scientists have been working on and thinking about. He concludes by spending 10 minutes trying to capture each scientist's ''personal trajectory,'' including the scientist's decisions to pursue the research he is passionate about.
Dr. Barabasi, now the director of the Northeastern University Center for Complex Network Research, was a pioneer in network science. In his interview, he recalls how he came to the subject. As a young postdoctoral researcher at I.B.M., Dr. Barabasi realized that he needed to understand the company better. He began to explore its businesses and quickly stumbled upon the idea of computer networks. That led him to explore the informal networks that shape every sphere of human interaction.
Dr. Hidalgo said he had been struck by a convergence of language in the physical and social sciences.
''A lot of the explanations used to explain development of countries are the same as those used to explain systems biology,'' he said. Many researchers, he said, ''start to share a common language.''
Perhaps not coincidentally, Dr. Hidalgo's own research focuses on human economies and draws parallels in the evolution of industrial economies and biological ecosystems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHYSICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); BIOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); CANCER (68%); WRITERS (64%); LITERARY AGENTS (64%)

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



413 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; OKUSHIRI JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: A Rebuilt Island Serves As a Cautionary Tale

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
OKUSHIRI, Japan -- On the night of July 12, 1993, the remote island of Okushiri was ripped apart by a huge earthquake and tsunami that now seem an eerie harbinger of the much larger disaster that struck northeastern Japan last March. Islanders still recall with horror how a wall of frothing black water raced out of the darkness to consume entire communities, leaving almost 200 people dead.
In the half decade that followed, the Japanese government rebuilt the island, erecting 35-foot concrete walls on long stretches of its coast, making it look more like a fortress than a fishing outpost. The billion dollars' worth of construction projects included not just the hefty wave defenses but also entire neighborhoods built on higher ground and a few flourishes, like a futuristic $15 million tsunami memorial hall featuring a stained glass panel for each victim. 
But today, as Japan begins a decade-long $300 billion reconstruction of the northeast coast, Okushiri has become something of a cautionary tale. Instead of restoring the island to its vibrant past, many residents now say, the $1 billion spending spree just may have helped kill its revival.
The rebuilding did bring a surge of well-paying construction jobs, residents said. But that was the problem: having grown accustomed to higher salaries, many of the remaining young people refused to return to the hard life of earning a livelihood from the sea, and left the island in search of salaried work elsewhere.
That accelerated the depopulation seen here and throughout much of rural Japan, as people, especially the young, are drawn to cities. The number of islanders has fallen faster here than in other rural areas, experts say, dwindling to 3,160 last year from 4,679 when the 1993 tsunami struck.
''We didn't use more of that reconstruction money to invest in new industries to keep young people,'' said Takami Shinmura, 58, the mayor of Okushiri's sole township, which bears the same name. ''We regret this now.''
Since the tsunami in March, hundreds of officials from local governments in the affected areas, as well as the national news media, have descended on Okushiri, an island about twice the size of Manhattan, to seek lessons from its reconstruction.
But Okushiri's message does not seem to be making a difference. The country is being driven by an outpouring of national sympathy for those displaced by the latest disaster, even as some Japanese quietly question whether it makes sense to begin an expensive reconstruction of communities that were withering long before the 2011 earthquake.
Okushiri's miles of stout wave walls give the fishing ports behind them the feel of miniature medieval castle towns, with fishermen able to reach the sea only through heavy steel gates.
The building boom created other white elephants. The fishing port of Aonae, part of the town of Okushiri, boasts a $35 million tsunami refuge that can hold 2,000 people, three times Aonae's population. The refuge, a raised platform that people would climb up to escape the waves, looks like a huge concrete table overshadowing the boats and docks below.
''We got a great new port, and all these big things, but no one is left here to fish anymore,'' said Fumio Sato, 75, a dockworker in knee-high rubber boots and a black baseball cap who stacked plastic crates filled with greenlings and other freshly caught fish.
Yasumitsu Watanabe, the head of Aonae's fishing cooperative, said that it had been shortsighted to think that the island could go back to its original, fishing-based economy. Even before the disaster, catches were declining from overfishing and global warming. Worse, the number of abalone, the island's cash shellfish, never recovered from the tsunami, which damaged their habitat in shallow waters.
The number of fishermen on the island has dropped to under 200 from about 750 at the time of the tsunami, he said.
''We need a new source of jobs,'' he said. ''Fishing alone cannot do it anymore.''
Mr. Watanabe said he wished the island had built sheltered coves where fish or shellfish could be farmed. Others said Okushiri could have used the government money to build factories to process locally caught fish, which is now shipped elsewhere, or to foster tourism on the largely pristine island, which has only one modern hotel.
The reconstruction splurge actually made that kind of diversification more difficult, island officials said. Besides using government funds, Okushiri borrowed more than $60 million for its own building projects, a financial burden that the township will not finish paying off until 2027. That has forced it to postpone needed improvements, like replacing its 56-year-old rickety wooden town hall, which many consider an earthquake hazard.
''We have no reserves left, just debt,'' said Mr. Shinmura, the mayor. ''Tohoku should learn from our experiences,'' he added, referring to the northeast region struck by the earthquake and tsunami last year.
Okushiri's bitter experiences have prompted some analysts in Tokyo to propose radically different approaches for rebuilding the northeast. Yutaka Okada, an economist at the Mizuho Research Institute, said that Japan might fare better if it just gave lump sums to the tsunami victims. Some might pocket the money and leave, he said, but others would use it to start new businesses, the sort of private sector innovation that Japan often lacks.
''The private sector would come up with better solutions than just building white elephants,'' Mr. Okada said.
On Okushiri, the end of the reconstruction boom has belatedly forced that sort of entrepreneurship.
To find new ways to earn money, Okushiri's largest construction company, Ebihara Kensetsu, has branched out, buying the sole tourist hotel, selling bottled spring water and even opening the island's first winery.
''We can no longer depend so much on the central government,'' the company's president, Takashi Ebihara, said. ''This is true not only here, but in Tohoku and everywhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Japan spent $1 billion to rebuild and fortify the island of Okushiri after an earthquake and tsunami struck in 1993, killing nearly 200 people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Officials hope to glean lessons from Okushiri's experience. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MAYORS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); POPULATION DECLINE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



414 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Where Are The Liberals?

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Why aren't there more liberals in America?
It's not because liberalism lacks cultural power. Many polls suggest that a majority of college professors and national journalists vote Democratic. The movie, TV, music and publishing industries are dominated by liberals.
It's not because recent events have disproved the liberal worldview. On the contrary, we're still recovering from a financial crisis caused, in large measure, by Wall Street excess. Corporate profits are zooming while worker salaries are flat. 
It's not because liberalism's opponents are going from strength to strength. The Republican Party is unpopular and sometimes embarrassing.
Given the circumstances, this should be a golden age of liberalism. Yet the percentage of Americans who call themselves liberals is either flat or in decline. There are now two conservatives in this country for every liberal. Over the past 40 years, liberalism has been astonishingly incapable at expanding its market share.
The most important explanation is what you might call the Instrument Problem. Americans may agree with liberal diagnoses, but they don't trust the instrument the Democrats use to solve problems. They don't trust the federal government.
A few decades ago they did, but now they don't. Roughly 10 percent of Americans trust government to do the right thing most of the time, according to an October New York Times, CBS News poll.
Why don't Americans trust their government? It's not because they dislike individual programs like Medicare. It's more likely because they think the whole system is rigged. Or to put it in the economists' language, they believe the government has been captured by rent-seekers.
This is the disease that corrodes government at all times and in all places. As George F. Will wrote in a column in Sunday's Washington Post, as government grows, interest groups accumulate, seeking to capture its power and money.
Some of these rent-seeking groups are corporate types. Will notes that the federal government delivers sugar subsidies that benefit a few rich providers while imposing costs on millions of consumers.
Other rent-seeking groups are dispersed across the political spectrum. The tax code has been tweaked 4,428 times in the past 10 years, to the benefit of interests of left, right and center.
Others exercise their power transparently and democratically. As Will notes, in 2009, the net worth of households headed by senior citizens was 47 times the net worth of households led by people under 35. Yet seniors use their voting power to protect programs that redistribute even more money from the young to the old and affluent.
You would think that liberals would have a special incentive to root out rent-seeking. Yet this has not been a major priority. There is no Steve Jobs figure in American liberalism insisting that the designers keep government simple, elegant and user-friendly. Sailors scrub their ships. Farmers clear weeds. Democrats have not spent a lot of time scraping barnacles off the state.
Worse, in an attempt to match Republican rhetoric, Democratic politicians are perpetually soiling the name of government for the sake of short-term gain. How many times have you heard Democrats from Carter to Obama running against Washington, accusing it of being insular, shortsighted, corrupt and petty? If the surgeon himself thinks his tools are rancid, why shouldn't you?
In the past few weeks, the Obama administration has begun his presidential campaign by picking a series of small fights with the Republican-led House over things like recess appointments. These vicious squabbles may help Obama in the short term by making him look better than Republicans in Congress. But they will only further discredit Washington over the long run.
Life is unfair. Republican venality unintentionally reinforces the conservative argument that government is corrupt. Democratic venality undermines the Democratic argument that Washington can be trusted to do good.
Liberalism has not expanded because it has not had a Martin Luther, a leader committed to stripping away the corruptions, complexities and indulgences that have grown up over the years.
If you'll forgive some outside advice, President Obama might consider running for re-election as Luther. It's not enough to pick a series of small squabbles and then win as the least ugly man in the room. He might run as someone who believes in government but sees how much it needs to be cleansed and purified.
Make the tax code simple. Make job training simple. Make Medicare simple. Every week choose a rent-seeker to hold up for ridicule and renunciation. Change the Congressional rules. Simplify the legal thickets that undermine responsibility.
If Democrats can't restore Americans' trust in government, it really doesn't matter what problems they identify and what plans they propose. No one will believe in the instrument they rely on for solutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (97%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); SUGAR FARMING (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



415 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Advice From Life's Graying Edge on Finishing With No Regrets

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
At 17, I wrote a speech titled, ''When You Come to the End of Your Days, Will You Be Able to Write Your Own Epitaph?'' It reflected the approach to life I adopted after my mother's untimely death from cancer at age 49. I chose to live each day as if it could be my last -- but with a watchful eye on the future in case it wasn't.
My goal was, and still is, to die without regrets.
For more than 50 years, this course has served me well, including my decision to become a science journalist instead of pursuing what had promised to be a more lucrative and prestigious, but probably less enjoyable, career as a biochemist. I find joy each day in mundane things too often overlooked: sunrises and sunsets, an insect on a flower, crows chasing a hawk, a majestic tree, a child at play, an act of kindness toward a stranger. 
Eventually, most of us learn valuable lessons about how to conduct a successful and satisfying life. But for far too many people, the learning comes too late to help them avoid painful mistakes and decades of wasted time and effort.
In recent years, for example, many talented young people have denied their true passions, choosing instead to pursue careers that promise fast and big monetary gains. High rates of divorce speak to an impulsiveness to marry and a tenuous commitment to vows of ''till death do us part.''
Parents undermine children's self-confidence and self-esteem by punishing them physically or pushing them down paths, both academic and athletic, that they are ill equipped to follow. And myriad prescriptions for antidepressants and anti-anxiety drugs reflect a widespread tendency to sweat the small stuff, a failure to recognize time-honored sources of happiness, and a reliance on material acquisitions that provide only temporary pleasure.
Enter an invaluable source of help, if anyone is willing to listen while there is still time to take corrective action. It is a new book called ''30 Lessons for Living'' (Hudson Street Press) that offers practical advice from more than 1,000 older Americans from different economic, educational and occupational strata who were interviewed as part of the ongoing Cornell Legacy Project.
Its author, Karl Pillemer, a professor of human development at the College of Human Ecology at Cornell and a gerontologist at the Weill Cornell Medical College, calls his subjects ''the experts,'' and their advice is based on what they did right and wrong in their long lives. Many of the interviews can be viewed at legacyproject.human.cornell.edu.
Here is a summary of their most salient thoughts.
ON MARRIAGE A satisfying marriage that lasts a lifetime is more likely to result when partners are fundamentally similar and share the same basic values and goals. Although romantic love initially brings most couples together, what keeps them together is an abiding friendship, an ability to communicate, a willingness to give and take, and a commitment to the institution of marriage as well as to each other.
An 89-year-old woman who was glad she stayed in her marriage even though her young husband's behavior was adversely affected by his military service said, ''Too many young people now are giving up too early, too soon.''
ON CAREERS Not one person in a thousand said that happiness accrued from working as hard as you can to make money to buy whatever you want. Rather, the near-universal view was summed up by an 83-year-old former athlete who worked for decades as an athletic coach and recruiter: ''The most important thing is to be involved in a profession that you absolutely love, and that you look forward to going to work to every day.''
Although it can take a while to land that ideal job, you should not give up looking for one that makes you happy. Meanwhile, if you're stuck in a bad job, try to make the most of it until you can move on. And keep in mind that a promotion may be flattering and lucrative but not worth it if it takes you away from what you most enjoy doing.
ON PARENTING The demands of modern life often have a negative effect on family life, especially when economic pursuits limit the time parents spend with their children. Most important, the elders said, is to spend more time with your children, even if you must sacrifice to do so.
Share in their activities, and do things with them that interest them. Time spent together enables parents to detect budding problems and instill important values.
While it's normal to prefer one child over others, it is critical not to make comparisons and show favoritism. Discipline is important when needed, but physical punishment is rarely effective and can result in children who are aggressive and antisocial.
ON AGING ''Embrace it. Don't fight it. Growing older is both an attitude and a process,'' an 80-year-old man said. The experts' advice to the young: ''Don't waste your time worrying about getting old.''
Most found that old age vastly exceeded their expectations. Even those with serious chronic illnesses enjoyed a sense of calm and contentment. A 92-year-old who can no longer do many of the things she once enjoyed said: ''I think I'm happier now than I've ever been in my life. Things that were important to me are no longer important, or not as important.''
Another said, ''Each decade, each age, has opportunities that weren't actually there in the previous time.''
Maintain social contacts. Avoid becoming isolated. When an invitation is issued, say yes. Take steps to stay engaged, and take advantage of opportunities to learn new things. Although many were initially reluctant, those who moved to a senior living community found more freedom to enjoy activities and relationships than they had before.
To those who worry about dying, these men and women said the best antidote is to plan for it: Get things organized, let others know your wishes, tidy up to minimize the burden on your heirs.
ON REGRETS ''Always be honest'' was the elders' advice to avoid late-in-life remorse. Take advantage of opportunities and embrace new challenges. And travel more when you're young rather than wait until the children are grown or you are retired.
As Dr. Pillemer summarized the elders' view, ''Travel is so rewarding that it should take precedence over other things younger people spend money on.'' Create a bucket list now and start whittling it down.
ON HAPPINESS Almost to a person, the elders viewed happiness as a choice, not the result of how life treats you.
A 75-year-old man said, ''You are not responsible for all the things that happen to you, but you are completely in control of your attitude and your reactions to them.'' An 84-year-old said, ''Adopt a policy of being joyful.''
The 90-year-old daughter of divorced parents who had lived a hardscrabble life said, ''I learned to be grateful for what I have, and no longer bemoan what I don't have or can't do.''
Even if their lives were nine decades long, the elders saw life as too short to waste on pessimism, boredom and disillusionment.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (86%); WRITERS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



416 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: The Alternatives: Wanted or Not

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- In the race to claim ever-higher fuel-economy numbers and keep up with government regulations, automakers are rolling out hybrids and electric cars aplenty at this week's Detroit auto show.
If only buyers were arriving as fast as the cars.
Hybrid sales waned as gasoline prices ebbed in 2011, declining to 2.2 percent of the market from 2.4 percent a year earlier, according to the research firm LMC Automotive. Meanwhile, sales of the Nissan Leaf electric car and the Chevrolet Volt plug-in each fell short of expectations. 
Analysts do not expect the segment to grow significantly this year: the combination of gas prices below $4 a gallon and higher upfront costs for the cars is not attracting consumers.
But that is not deterring Toyota, Honda, Ford Motor and several European carmakers from introducing new hybrid and plug-in models.
''The market is going in one direction and fuel-economy regulations are going the other direction,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, vice chairman of the automotive information Web site Edmunds.com. ''Just because people start building more of something doesn't mean the segment grows.''
Regardless, the automakers have little choice but to develop and try to push more hybrids as they prepare for fuel-efficiency requirements that call for significant increases later this decade. Advances such as Ford's EcoBoost technology have increased mileage for gas-powered engines -- the new Fusion midsize sedan it unveiled Monday can get 37 miles to the gallon, Ford said -- but bigger gains are needed.
''Internal combustion can't get all the way there, so you need an alternative,'' said Russell Hensley, a partner with the consulting firm McKinsey & Company. ''The only alternative we have at the moment is electrification.''
In a report Monday, McKinsey listed ''uncertainty around future adoption of hybrid/electric powertrain technology'' as one of several challenges facing automakers and their suppliers in the coming years.
McKinsey said hybrids could account for up to a quarter of sales by 2020, with battery-powered cars making up 5 percent. But it said internal-combustion engines would dominate the industry through at least 2030. ''The demand is in its infancy,'' Mr. Hensley said.
Hybrids and electric cars typically cost at least several thousand dollars more than their conventional counterparts. BMW said Monday that its ActiveHybrid 5 would be priced at $8,700 above the gas-powered 535i. The Volt costs nearly twice as much as the similarly sized Chevy Cruze, after a $7,500 federal tax credit.
Most consumers want to be able to recoup the additional cost of an alternative-technology vehicle within a year, Mr. Anwyl said. At today's gas prices, the payback generally takes several years, if not more.
Automakers said shortages of batteries and other parts also held back sales in 2011.
''We have a bottleneck with the batteries,'' said Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan, adding that he expects supplies to increase as the Leaf enters new markets in the United States and production of the car and battery begins in Tennessee later this year.
''A lot of consumers are thrilled that they have the option of buying an electric car,'' Mr. Ghosn said. ''We sold 9,700 the first year. We can double that.
''I am much more optimistic on the prospects for electric cars than many people. We are very, very far from our potential.''
General Motors has said it wants to sell 45,000 of the Volt this year, despite falling short of its 10,000 target in 2011. G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, said on Sunday that the company would build only as many Volts as the market called for.
''We're going to match production with demand,'' Mr. Akerson told reporters. ''There are new variables in the equation, so we'll see.''
Sales of the most popular hybrid, the Toyota Prius, declined 3.2 percent in 2011, after disruptions caused by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, where it is built. The Prius accounted for almost half of all hybrids sold.
On Tuesday, Toyota will unveil the Prius C, a smaller version. It began selling the larger Prius V in the fall and plans to bring out a plug-in Prius this spring.
Toyota also is showing off a plug-in hybrid concept called the NS4 on Tuesday. Its premium brand, Lexus, on Monday unveiled a hybrid concept sports coupe.
Honda showed off two cars, the ILX and NSX, that will be the first hybrids ever for its upscale Acura brand. Honda said it planned to build a new plant in Ohio to assemble the NSX.
Volkswagen unveiled a hybrid version of its Jetta compact car Monday. BMW brought two new hybrids and a pair of electric concept cars to Detroit. Mercedes took the wraps off two E-Class hybrids, though one will not be sold in the United States, and a tiny electric pickup truck concept for its Smart brand. Volvo is showing a plug-in hybrid concept.
Ford is taking away the hybrid option on its small sport utility vehicle, the Escape, but it is bringing out hybrid and plug-in versions of the Fusion, which it introduced Monday. The plug-in Fusion will get the equivalent of more than 100 miles per gallon, Ford said.
''We still believe electrification is going to play a big role in the industry, both to meet CAFE requirements and because of consumers' sensitivity to gas prices,'' said Mark Fields, the president of Ford's Americas division, referring to the government's corporate average fuel economy regulations. ''We want to give people an opportunity to choose, and we have a manufacturing strategy that allows us to be flexible with what we produce. Whatever way the market goes, we will be able to respond.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New cars unveiled at the Detroit auto show on Monday are, clockwise from top, the Mercedes- Benz E-400 hybrid, Volkswagen Jetta Hybrid, 2013 Ford Fusion Hybrid Energi plug-in and BMW Active Hybrid 3. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
GEOFF ROBINS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Stefan Jacoby, chief executive of Volvo Cars, showed the XC60 plug-in hybrid concept car on Monday in Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); SEDANS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



417 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Way To Put a Zebra In Your Tank

BYLINE: By GUY GUGLIOTTA

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- Prowling the animal cages at the Audubon Zoo with tweezers and sandwich bags was an unusual and somewhat disconcerting experience for David A. Mullin and his graduate students.
''I'd never stood next to a giraffe before,'' recalled Dr. Mullin, a professor of molecular biology at Tulane University. ''They're huge.''
Dr. Mullin was collecting manure from giraffes and other exotic ruminants at the zoo, a few blocks from his laboratory. He was looking for microbes capable of breaking down cellulose and converting it to biofuel. ''Nature is very good at this,'' he said.
So good that Dr. Mullin's lab machines these days are gently jiggling a dozen small glass containers filled with cellulose and TU-103, a bacterium he found in the droppings of an African zebra. To date, his microbe has thrived on cotton waste, a pure cellulose composed of fibers, twigs and seeds; on bagasse, the mulchlike residue of squeezed sugar cane; and on chopped-up copies of the city's main newspaper, The Times-Picayune. ''Just cut it up, add water and put it in a Cuisinart,'' he said of the newsprint. ''It works fine.'' 
Dr. Mullin, who has no personal financial or commercial stake in the research, is one of many scientists and companies involved in the feverish competition to develop an economically viable biofuel substitute for gasoline.
This is one of those frustrating scientific endeavors, like nuclear fusion, in which it is clear what needs to be done, but doing it in a sensible way has proved to be numbingly difficult. His research demonstrates both how simple the problem is and how complicated the solution might be.
Making alcohol from sugars is easy; distillers have been doing it for centuries. But the trick with biofuels is to start not with sugar but with cellulose, the tough carbon latticework, indigestible to humans, that serves as plants' armor against predatory pests. After the cellulose is transformed into sugar, it can be fermented and distilled to make alcohol.
The second trick is to do the whole job at a cost that makes it possible for a biofuel to compete with gasoline. And this is not easy.
Processors for decades have used government subsidies to make ethanol from cornstarch and other sugars, but these are food products. Using them to make ethanol raises the demand for staple commodities like corn and cane sugar, keeping prices high.
Refining cellulose, however, means using corn husks instead of corn kernels, bagasse instead of cane sugar, and agricultural and industrial waste of all kinds -- things like wood chips, the leavings of paper mills and fallen leaves from the backyard.
Breaking down cellulose is ''the extra step, and it's proving to be a touchy and expensive step,'' said Harvey Blanch, a chemical engineer who is chief science officer for the Department of Energy's Joint BioEnergy Institute. ''We can do it today, but it's a question of cost. Economics is the driver.''
For that reason, some environmentalists are wary of biofuels. Making ethanol from sugars encourages farmers to put vast amounts of land into single-crop production, risking environmental damage from pesticides and fertilizers.
And even if cellulose refining comes of age, skeptics worry that companies will simply buy up land to grow feedstock crops like switch grass or fast-growing poplar trees with the same harmful consequences.
''We don't want to create new monocultures,'' said Sheila Karpf, legislative and policy analyst for the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit advocacy group in Washington. ''We want to make sure it's sustainable and that there are enough environmental safeguards.''
The ideal biofuel, given these concerns, is one that can be made with anything scooped up off the ground or dumped directly into the fermenting vat from a trash bin. This is where researchers like Dr. Mullin come in.
It was Hurricane Katrina that inadvertently led Dr. Mullin to seek diamonds in the dung. He was chairman of Tulane's biology department when the storm clobbered New Orleans in August 2005. The university lost power for three months; his experiments, all refrigerated, were destroyed. His department was so traumatized that a quarter of the staff resigned.
''Up to then, I had always worked on theoretical projects, but Katrina made you see how things can fall apart,'' he said. ''Without power, not only can you not keep food, but you can't get money from an A.T.M., and you can't buy fuel even if you have a portable generator because the pump won't work. From then on, I decided to work only on practical problems.''
The product he makes now is butanol, a compound with four carbon atoms and a higher energy kick than two-carbon ethanol. He began studying butanol after one of his students wrote a paper noting that it had only 4 percent less energy than gasoline.
Unlike ethanol, which is mixed with gasoline, butanol can power automobiles by itself. And because it does not absorb water when transported, as ethanol does, it could use gasoline pipelines, tankers and other fossil fuel infrastructure.
As a microbiologist, Dr. Mullin could have chosen any of several paths. Many creatures, among them termites and cattle, use gut microbes to break down cellulose in their digestive systems. The microbes do it by secreting enzymes called cellulases. There are businesses today that culture the enzymes and sell them. Companies can buy them to convert cellulose into sugar, then make alcohol with yeast. Unfortunately, the enzymes are expensive.
So Dr. Mullin decided to find a microbe of his own.
First, he wanted one that produced butanol directly from cellulose in one step. That way he would eliminate the need for two processes -- one to get from cellulose to sugar and a second to get from sugar to alcohol. The zoo was a perfect place to look, because it had plenty of exotic vegetarians whose insides had never been explored for such purposes. In all, Dr. Mullin and his team cultured 40 different bacteria colonies from the Audubon offerings. (A group based at Mississippi State University is doing similar work with bacteria cultured from the feces of the giant panda, whose diet is about 95 percent bamboo.)
Besides making butanol straight off, Dr. Mullin wanted a microbe that could do it in the open air -- a difficult requirement since all the candidates were anaerobic when they worked as gut microbes. (Vacuum systems that would eliminate the air are ''hard to set up, hard to maintain'' and therefore expensive, Dr. Mullin said.)
And finally, the winner had to be able to produce large quantities of butanol at a reasonable temperature. Anything too high or too low was going to require extra energy and monitoring, which would be more expensive.
Of the 40 cultured strains, Dr. Mullin's team found at least 14 that made butanol. The team's plan was to test the strains in turn until they found the one that best matched the desired criteria.
It did not take long. The first sample, from zebra droppings, turned out to produce a ''monstrous cellulase,'' Dr. Mullin said. Tests continued. The bacterium grew in the open air. And, not surprisingly, its optimum operating temperature was body temperature -- 98 to 99 degrees Fahrenheit -- easily achieved and maintained.
As a bonus, the bacterium made no ethanol. It made butanol; acetone, an industrial solvent; hydrogen; and carbon dioxide. All but the carbon dioxide were commercially viable products.
But as Dr. Blanch of the Joint BioEnergy Institute noted, ''there's always something.'' The catch with butanol has been that it is difficult to separate from the rest of the fermenting mixture because it boils at a higher temperature than water and needs more energy to be distilled.
The second difficulty, peculiar to Dr. Mullin's bacterium, was that his microbes held the tools of their own destruction. When the concentration of butanol in the container reaches 17 grams per liter, he said, the bacteria cells die.
Dr. Mullin's solution to both problems was to find a very light liquid that would bond with the butanol and bring it to the top of the vat, where it could be siphoned off, like fat from the surface of broth, before it could kill the culture.
He found the liquid he needed. He is vague about how he did it and what it is, but it is cheap, easy to find and readily available in large quantities. And there is no doubt that it works. When he shook a bottle of butanol and broth, he quickly created an emulsion, but within seconds, the yellow butanol and its secret solvent had risen to the top.
Now Dr. Mullin and his team are tweaking temperature and broth mixture to minimize fermentation time. They also need to demonstrate that their bacterium can break down wood chips, paper mill waste and other feed stocks. ''We could get to a demonstration level within 100 days if we had more hands to do the experiments,'' he said. ''What's the point in waiting around? If this is going to be the answer, you want to be in at the beginning.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DIRTY JOB: David Mullin, a Tulane microbiologist, collecting manure at Audubon Zoo. (D1)
 TRASH TO TREASURE: David Mullin's focus is making butanol from the cellulose in waste like sugar cane mulch, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM WIDMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ALCOHOLS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (76%); ETHANOL (75%); BIOLOGY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (70%); NEWSPRINT (70%); PAPER MILLS (70%); BACTERIA (70%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (69%); DISTILLERIES (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



418 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Using Modern Tools to Reconstruct Ancient Life

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
ASHKELON, Israel -- To the naked eye, the white, powdery substance appeared to be plaster. That's what the professional and volunteer archaeologists at a dig in Israel concluded.
To be certain, though, they subjected the chalky dust to spectroscopy and a petrographic microscope, only to discover that it was not a manufactured substance, but decayed plant life and fecal matter.
What that meant to the archaeologists from the Leon Levy Expedition to Ashkelon -- a former seaport south of Tel Aviv that was home to successive civilizations over thousands of years -- was that structures thought to have been inhabited by people were more likely occupied by animals. That revelation upended their view of what they were excavating. 
''For archaeologists,'' said the expedition's co-director, Daniel M. Master, a professor at Wheaton College in Illinois, ''it was the difference between a palace and a stable.''
This marriage of social and natural sciences is an emerging discipline that has been called microarchaeology by Steve Weiner, director of the Kimmel Center for Archaeological Science in the Weizmann Institute in Israel, which is collaborating with the expedition.
''The unique approach at Weizmann is not about instruments nor about methodologies,'' Dr. Weiner said. ''It is all about solving archaeological problems with the help of instrumentation -- both in the field and in the lab.''
Weizmann archaeology researchers have a laboratory on the site here, along with equipment to study archaeometallurgy, ancient DNA, radiocarbon dating and micromorphology, the microscopic structures found in organisms and soil. A $2 million accelerator mass spectrometer is on order.
''We have developed a whole new integrative approach to archaeology that starts with the team identifying a good problem in the field and then continues interactively between field and lab,'' Dr. Weiner said.
Dr. Master said: ''Steve's team demonstrated that the white lamina that archaeologists have routinely called 'bits of plaster' were actually degraded plant remains. Further, his team showed ways of analyzing these plants that could detect the difference between sheaves of grain and plant bits mixed into animal dung.''
Dr. Master and Lawrence E. Stager, director of the Semitic Museum at Harvard University, who has overseen the dig for 25 years, embarked on a mutually beneficial collaboration with the Kimmel Center after Dr. Master was invited to lecture there. Suddenly, new windows opened.
Sifting sediment through flotation turned up lint near mysterious clay cylinders. That discovery, Dr. Master recalled, demonstrated that the clay cylinders were actually loom weights, and ''this observation has led to a revolution in the studies of the weaving industry across the eastern Mediterranean in the early Iron Age.''
Soil chemistry analysis found that a four-horned altar thought to be a traditional Levantine device for burning incense was not used for burning at all. Archaeologists identified it instead as a Mycenaean and Minoan libation altar on which liquids were poured.
''Our work with the Weizmann team has been a leap forward,'' Dr. Master said.
Sharing workers and a mobile laboratory allows the expedition to analyze samples rapidly and adjust its excavating techniques accordingly. The application of pure science to practical challenges enables Kimmel Center experts to hone their research skills. The collaboration is not unique, but it is unusual for a discipline that falls between the humanities and natural science.
''In Israel, archaeology is taught in the faculties of the humanities, making it very difficult for archaeologists to fully exploit the powerful new scientific tools,'' Dr. Weiner said.
''Although there is much good will both on the side of natural scientists intrigued by the exciting archaeological questions to be addressed and the archaeologists who are eager to obtain the information provided by scientific tools, a chasm of miscommunication exists between the two camps,'' he said. ''The frequent result is that minimal benefit is obtained from maximal effort.''
The collaboration with the Leon Levy Expedition, he said, means ''we excavate, analyze samples in minutes, get results, change excavation strategy, sample as well as we can and then continue in the base camp lab and, between seasons, in the home lab.''
Last summer, Michael Toffolo, a 27-year-old doctoral student at Tel Aviv University who conducts his lab work as a visiting student at the Kimmel Center, was lent to the Leon Levy Expedition, which was unearthing an ash layer dating from 604 B.C., when the Babylonians led by Nebuchadnezzar sacked the walled seaport.
''Among all the pieces of information that I managed to gather so far with my lab work, the most important is probably the presence of phytolith floors'' composed of microscopic plant remains, he said.
Mr. Toffolo was able to determine whether the floors were made of wild grasses used as bedding, or agricultural byproducts like straw, or ash from wood used as fuel. As a result, what originally looked like plaster turned out to be cereal husks on which an iron plow point was lying; a grain storage pit from the Egyptian period; and a floor composed of woven palm leaves.
''This type of information can change the archaeological interpretation of an entire structure or building, according to the human activities identified,'' Mr. Toffolo said.
The discovery that the white power was not plaster led scientists to the conclusion that a rural economy existed in an Iron Age town center.
''Floors also define a stratigraphic layer -- everything below is older and above younger,'' Dr. Weiner said.
Each June and July, the six-week Leon Levy Expedition to Ashkelon draws college students and other volunteers. Sponsored since 1985 by the Leon Levy Foundation, the expedition is administered by the Harvard Semitic Museum and a consortium that includes Wheaton and Boston Colleges and is conducted under the auspices of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
Dr. Weiner said, ''We try to solve archaeological problems using the macroscopic record -- what you see -- and the microscopic record -- revealed by instruments.'' Weizmann is working with several other Israeli excavations.
''We do not always have success answering our questions in archaeology, and sometimes microarchaeology is frustrating,'' Dr. Master said, ''but together we are using all the tools at our disposal to uncover the clues that will help us to reconstruct ancient life at Ashkelon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOIL SPEAKS: Lint in samples from an ancient earthen floor in Ashkelon, Israel, revealed that clay cylinders found there, below, were loom weights. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARL ANDREWS
 DANIEL MASTER) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



419 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exports Grow, but Imports Show Signs of Weakening

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Exports from China rose 13.4 percent in December compared with a year ago, while import growth slowed to 11.8 percent as domestic demand weakened, government data released Tuesday shows. 
Over all, the Chinese trade surplus shrank to $155 billion in 2011, from $183 billion in 2010, as imports picked up and demand for Chinese goods in Europe and elsewhere softened. IHS Global Insight, an economic forecasting firm, said that while still sizable, the trade surplus was China's lowest in three years. That could help China fend off pressure from the United States to allow its currency to appreciate faster.
The trade figures were released just before the arrival of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner in Beijing. Mr. Geithner is hoping to persuade China to limit its purchases of Iranian oil and is also expected to discuss currency and trade issues, including disputes over steel, automobiles and chicken.
The Treasury Department said last month that the United States would continue to push China on the exchange rate but stopped short of accusing China of manipulating its currency. The United States argues that despite slow appreciation, the renminbi remains undervalued to bolster Chinese exports. Some analysts predict that China will allow its currency, the renminbi, to strengthen by about 3 percent against the dollar this year.
December's export growth was only slightly behind that of the previous month, when exports rose 13.8 percent compared with the same period a year ago. But import growth of 11.8 percent represented a slowdown compared with the last three months. Imports rose 20.9 percent in September, 28.7 percent in October, and 22.1 percent in November.
Analysts with IHS Global Insight called the decline in import growth ''worrying,'' and an indication of rapidly slowly domestic demand. ''This will be of little help to a flagging global economy,'' they said.
Export growth held up well because of looser monetary conditions and rising demand for Chinese goods, analysts with ANZ said. ''While exports to the United States moderated, shipments to Japan and the emerging economies remained reasonably steady,'' a note from the bank said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



420 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: In South Carolina, Hopes Of Passing a Crucial Test

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. -- The capacity crowd gathered to meet Rick Santorum at Chiefs Wings and Firewater Restaurant on Sunday night had squeezed Kerry Wood, the Santorum campaign's South Carolina state director, into the chilly rain near the parking lot.
But while others shivered, Mr. Wood, who was without a coat or umbrella, was undaunted. ''I don't need a jacket,'' he said with some swagger to a friend who had offered one, ''because this campaign is on fire. It's hot!'' 
Indeed, South Carolina, which holds a crucial primary in 11 days, is fast becoming a crucible of sorts for the Republican candidates, an early proving ground -- and for some, a likely final one -- in a volatile political season, particularly with the state's history of often backing the ultimate victor in the Republican field.
But the path to victory here remains unpredictable. The state's influential Tea Party movement, which helped elect Gov. Nikki R. Haley, is fractured after her decision to endorse Mitt Romney, who is viewed by many of the most conservative voters as too moderate. It is unclear whether those voters will coalesce around a more conservative candidate like Mr. Santorum in time to defeat Mr. Romney, who is holding a lead in recent South Carolina polls.
Despite the state's reputation as a hotbed of social conservatism, in interviews many voters placed the economy and jobs above social issues like gay marriage and abortion as matters of the most importance in the race.
Jack Broome, a retired construction worker from Myrtle Beach, said that he had not picked a candidate to support yet, but that he knew what his priority was. ''The economy remains the biggest thing for me,'' Mr. Broome said as he waited for a Romney rally to begin last Friday in Conway, S.C. ''Everybody's hurting and we need some jobs created now. I am only interested in who's going to be best at that right now.''
Steve Baughman, a construction executive who attended a rally for Mr. Romney in Charleston on Thursday, said he felt similarly.
''It would be nice to get the economy going again,'' he said. ''That's a dire need.''
With the candidates already committing significant amounts of time to campaigning time here, even as the race in New Hampshire reaches its climax, some voters are beginning to crystallize their views, but many remain in flux, reflecting the uncertainties of voters elsewhere about the Republican candidates. Almost half of voters surveyed in the most recent CNN/Time/ORC International poll said they could change their minds before the primary.
To try to woo these voters, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is devoting all of his time to reviving his flailing campaign here. And ''super PACs'' supporting Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Mr. Romney are spending millions on advertising blitzes in South Carolina.
Catherine Kilpatrick, a graphic artist who manages a restaurant in Greenville, said: ''I've been listening to Santorum and Gingrich. Romney's not my favorite. Too liberal.''
Ms. Kilpatrick sat in the front during Mr. Santorum's remarks at the restaurant in Greenville on Sunday night and said he might have won her over with his ''inspiring words'' about faith and family.
''I think he's probably the one,'' she said. ''He has a lot of good morals, good energy and charisma. And I liked what I saw in the last debate. I'm probably going for him.''
Karen Martin, leader of the Spartanburg, S.C., Tea Party, is still undecided, and even after she does pick a candidate, she does not plan to endorse anyone, she said.
''If there was one candidate who I felt was so compelling that it felt clear to me that he is the guy, I would endorse,'' she said. ''For me, that hasn't happened. There is not a candidate who is compelling enough for me to break out of my neutrality. It's so up-in-the-air right now. The only thing I'm hearing consistently is 'not Romney.' ''
But, as was made clear at the two Romney rallies last week, where hundreds of South Carolinians showed up to cheer and pledge their support, Mr. Romney remains a formidable candidate. And South Carolina is an important test of his ability to appeal to his party's base.
''I made up my mind five years ago, and that was based on his experience,'' said Bill Parnell, who is retired from the Army Special Forces and is supporting Mr. Romney. ''The economy is my biggest issue, and the debt. I like Santorum, but he's been a politician all his life and I'm thinking: where is his real experience? I don't think he has it.''
One of Mr. Parnell's friends, Sandy Summers, a retired paralegal in Charleston, agreed.
''I think Romney will have great success in South Carolina,'' she said, ''and I'm 90 percent sure I'm with him, due to his position on debt and big government, and because he doesn't have social agendas. Not that I don't have positions on those things, but that's just not relevant to me in someone who leads the country. I think we have more important things right now.''
Edwin S. Taylor, who works for a maritime museum on Charleston Harbor, supported Mr. Romney in 2008, but has since switched his allegiance to Mr. Santorum.
''It all depends on the field,'' he said. ''This time I'm being more selective. Like most people I've waited. I met Rick Santorum three years ago. I've gotten to know him personally. He's a great man. Obviously, people are coming on board now, and I think he's got a great chance to win the nomination.''
Mr. Taylor, continued: ''There's a lot of folks today in the anti-Newt, anti-Romney crowd who see Santorum as the person, the one in the middle who is most electable.''
The decision matters, Mr. Taylor said. ''South Carolina is going to crown the next president,'' he said. ''We have a history of doing that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Rick Santorum volunteer, Trish Mozdzierz, added her message in Columbia, S.C., on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%); HISTORY (53%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NIKKI HALEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (90%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (78%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (98%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



421 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: The Corporate Candidates

 BODY:
The more Mitt Romney pretends to empathize with the millions of Americans who are struggling in this economy, the less he seems to understand their despair. And the rest of the Republican field seems to have no more insight into the concerns of most voters than he does.
Mr. Romney claims his background as a businessman provides him with an understanding of the economy and the ability to fix it. His opponents -- particularly Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum, Ron Paul and Rick Perry -- say their political experience provides the same advantage. In truth, none have offered anything but tired or extremist economic prescriptions, providing little evidence that they can relate to those at the middle or bottom of the ladder. 
The problem with Mr. Romney's pitch is the kind of businessman he was: specifically, a buyer of flailing companies who squeezed out the inefficiencies (often known as employees) and then sold or merged them for a hefty profit. More than a fifth of them later went bankrupt, The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday. This kind of leveraged capitalism, which first caught fire in the 1980s, is one of the reasons for the growth in the income gap, tipping the wealth in the economy toward the people at the top.
Mr. Romney doesn't like to talk about the precise nature of his business experience. Instead, he prefers to claim his occupation as a leveraged buyout king actually benefited ordinary workers, even casting himself as one of them. ''I know what it's like to worry whether you're going to get fired,'' Mr. Romney said, astonishingly, on Sunday. ''There were a couple of times I wondered whether I was going to get a pink slip.'' Mr. Romney, the son of privilege and power, has never known personal economic fear, and said later that he was referring to his early days at Bain Capital, the investment firm he would later run.
He has, however, been responsible for issuing many a pink slip while leading Bain. The firm bought Dade International, a medical supplier, and collected eight times its investment but laid off 1,700 workers, The New York Times has reported. Reuters reported last week that a steel mill in Kansas City, Mo., was shuttered less than a decade after Bain bought it, and its 750 laid-off workers got no severance pay.
Mr. Romney dismisses these layoffs, and thousands more, as the cost of capitalism. He claims that, over all, Bain's investments produced a net gain of 100,000 jobs. But his campaign and his former firm have refused to provide any documentation for that number, showing exactly how many people were laid off and how many hired as a result of Bain's investments during his period there. The claim cannot be taken seriously until he does so.
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Perry have sharply criticized Mr. Romney for his buyout work, but some of those attacks ring hollow. Mr. Gingrich himself was on an advisory board for Forstmann Little, another private equity firm with a business model similar to Bain's. Mr. Perry simply seems opportunistic. He criticized Mr. Romney for ruthlessly practicing modern-day capitalism a day after he called Mr. Obama ''a socialist.''
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum have avoided talking about their own financial histories, having become multimillionaires by peddling their influence to big corporations after leaving Congressional office. For voters worried about the economy, neither a past record of buyouts nor lobbying should inspire any confidence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (88%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK PERRY (77%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



422 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Recession Holds Down Health Spending

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- National health spending rose a slight 3.9 percent in 2010, as Americans delayed hospital care, doctor's visits and prescription drug purchases for the second year in a row, the Obama administration reported Monday.
The recession, which lasted from December 2007 to June 2009, reined in the growth of health spending as many people lost jobs, income and health insurance, the government said in a report, published in the journal Health Affairs.
Lingering effects of the recession throttled back the explosive growth of health spending, which totaled $2.6 trillion, or 17.9 percent of the economy, in 2010, according to the government's annual snapshot of health trends. 
Health spending normally grows much faster than the economy. But in 2010 growth rates were similar, so that health care accounted for the same share of total economic output in 2009 and 2010.
''U.S. health spending grew more slowly in 2009 and 2010'' than at any other time in the 51 years the government has been collecting such data, said Anne B. Martin, an economist in the office of the actuary at the Department of Health and Human Services.
While the recession crimped spending by consumers, employers and state and local governments, the federal government picked up the slack.
Federal health spending shot up 40 percent in three years, to $743 billion in 2010, from $530 billion in 2007, the report said. Some of the growth resulted from an increase in Medicaid enrollment and a temporary increase in the federal share of Medicaid spending, authorized by the economic stimulus law of 2009.
Medicare spending, for older Americans and the disabled, grew in 2010 by 5 percent, the smallest rate of increase in more than a decade, the report said. The main reason was a slowdown in spending for the managed care program known as Medicare Advantage.
Although some provisions of President Obama's health care overhaul took effect in 2010, government economists said they had had little impact on the overall level of health spending and, in some cases, simply shifted payments from one source to another.
One of the more remarkable findings in the report is that increases in the volume and intensity of health care services made only a tiny contribution to the growth of health spending in 2010. In the past, this factor, reflecting increases in the number and complexity of procedures, was often cited as a major reason for higher health spending.
In 2010, the study said, hospitals reported a decline in admissions and slower growth in emergency room visits and outpatient visits. Likewise, it said, doctor's office visits declined, and spending for doctors' services grew just 1.8 percent, to $416 billion in 2010. Total health spending averaged $8,402 a person, up 3.1 percent from 2009, the report said.
Doctors often prescribe drugs during office visits, and the decline in visits helped slow the growth of drug spending, as did the use of lower-cost generic medications. The number of prescriptions filled rose just 1.2 percent in 2010, and total retail spending on prescription drugs also grew 1.2 percent, to $259 billion, the slowest rate of growth in a half-century, the report said.
For the first time in seven years, total private health insurance premiums grew faster than insurers' spending on health care benefits, the administration said. Premiums totaled $849 billion in 2010, while spending on benefits totaled $746 billion. The difference includes administrative costs and profits.
The White House said the gap showed that the new health care law was needed to ''keep insurance companies in check.'' Under the law, insurers must disclose and justify premium increases larger than 10 percent.
In 2010, Ms. Martin said, ''total spending on private health insurance benefits grew at the slowest rate in the 51-year history of the national health expenditure accounts.'' Private insurance spending slowed, she said, because fewer people had private insurance, insurers shifted some costs to subscribers, charging higher co-payments and deductibles, and some subscribers switched to health plans with lower premiums.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Rate of Health Spending: National spending on health grew just 3.9 percent in 2010 as the effects of the recession lingered. (Sources: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 National Bureau of Economic Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TRENDS (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



423 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Romney Waves Away Opponents' Intensifying Attacks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Richard A. Oppel, Ashley Parker, Jeff Zeleny, Jim Rutenberg, Marjorie Connelly and Abby Goodnough contributed reporting from New Hampshire.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney on Monday dismissed intensifying attacks by his Republican rivals on his role at a corporate buyout firm, expressing confidence just a day before New Hampshire voters go to the polls.
The attacks came as Mr. Romney's lead in New Hampshire appears to be slipping. A Suffolk University/7News tracking poll on Monday showed him still leading but with just 33 percent support, down from 43 percent in the same poll five days ago.
Newt Gingrich, after a campaign stop in Manchester, demanded that Mr. Romney explain in more detail the impact that Mr. Romney's investment firm, Bain Capital, had on jobs. He said that Mr. Romney promotes his credentials as a businessman and should expound upon the buying and selling of companies.
''It's a legitimate question about exactly what happened: Where did the money go? Who got the money? What happened to the people involved?'' Mr. Gingrich told reporters. ''He's the one who went around and said he has 20 years experience -- fine. Now let's talk about the 20 years experience.'' 
Earlier on NBC's ''Today'' show, Mr. Gingrich said Bain Capital ''apparently looted the companies, left people unemployed and walked off with millions of dollars.''
In Concord, N.H., Jon M. Huntsman Jr. seized on a comment by Mr. Romney earlier Monday that he liked ''to fire people,'' saying that the quip reveals a difference between Mr. Romney and himself.
''It seems that Governor Romney believes in putting politics first; Governor Romney enjoys firing people -- I enjoy creating jobs,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''It may be that he's slightly out of touch with the economic reality playing out in America right now, and that's a dangerous place to be.''
Mr. Huntsman was referring to comments Mr. Romney made during a stop in Nashua, telling an audience that giving people choice in health care would allow them to dismiss the health care providers and insurance companies they disliked.
''If you don't like what they do, you can fire them,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I like being able to fire people who provide services to me.''
Speaking to reporters in Manchester, Mr. Romney waved aside the attacks, saying he had expected ''free enterprise'' to be put ''on trial'' by Democrats, but said he was not worried by the attacks from his Republican rivals.
''I've got broad shoulders and I'm happy to describe my experience in the private economy and the fact that if you take all of the businesses that we invested in over our many years, over 100 different businesses and collectively, they net-net added over 100,000 new jobs,'' Mr. Romney said.
Mr. Romney said the comments about liking to fire people was taken out of context.
''I was speaking about insurance companies, and the need to be able to make a choice, and my comments entirely reflected that discussion,'' he said. ''We should be able to choose the insurance company of our choice. We should not have to have one foisted upon us by the president and 'Obamacare.' ''
Mr. Romney's news conference with reporters, his first of the new year, lasted about five-and-a-half minutes. It came as the Democratic National Committee joined the Republican candidates in immediately seizing on the ''firing'' comment, sending out video of it to reporters.
And John Weaver, who is Mr. Huntsman's top adviser, said Monday that Mr. Romney ''will rue the day he said that.'' A ''super PAC'' backing Mr. Gingrich revealed Monday that it plans to significantly amplify that attack on Mr. Romney in South Carolina, where it plans to spend $3.4 million to blanket the television airwaves with television ads.
And campaigning in South Carolina, Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, also hammered Mr. Romney, saying that under Mr. Romney, Bain Capital ''looted'' a company in Gaffney, S.C., and got ''rich off failures and sticking it to someone else.''
Mr. Perry mocked Mr. Romney's statement on Sunday that there had been times he had worried about losing his job.
''I have no doubt Mitt Romney was worried about pink slips -- whether he was going to have enough of them to hand out because his company, Bain Capital, of all the jobs that they killed,'' Mr. Perry told more than 100 diners at a breakfast gathering here on Monday morning.
With hours left before voting begins, the polls showed a race that remains volatile. Ron Paul is in second place with 20 percent, while Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has 13 percent, Mr. Gingrich 11 percent, Rick Santorum 10 percent, and Rick Perry 1 percent.
A victory by Mr. Romney in New Hampshire would be the first time a Republican has won both here and in Iowa. That has ratcheted up pressure on Mr. Romney's rivals to find a way to stop him before the campaign heads to South Carolina.
Mr. Romney's role at Bain, the investment firm he helped to found in the 1980s, has been a target of Democratic allies to President Obama for months. The Democratic National Committee released a Web video on Monday asserting that Mr. Romney had purposely understated the number of job losses at companies that Bain closed down.
But in recent days, his Republican rivals have seized upon reports of those job losses in an effort to counter Mr. Romney's claim that his experience in the private sector qualifies him to be president at a time of economic uncertainty.
Similar criticism earned Mr. Gingrich scorn late last year from conservative pundits who complained that he was buying into liberal attacks on the free-market system. But the Republican candidates seemed ready now to ignore such criticism as they search for a way to defeat Mr. Romney.
In a statement Monday morning, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney said that ''it's sad to see Speaker Gingrich lashing out with attacks on free enterprise because his own campaign is floundering.''
''This is the type of criticism we've come to expect from President Obama and his left-wing allies at MoveOn.org.''
At a morning stop in Nashua, N.H., Mr. Romney again offered himself as the C.E.O. presidential candidate. He did not directly respond to the attacks from his rivals but sought to explain his business experience before the high-flying days at Bain.
''I joined the firm at the bottom level and was able over the years to work my way up -- I learned some lessons along the way,'' Mr. Romney told a breakfast meeting of the Nashua Chamber of Commerce. ''I saw some successes and some failures.''
Mr. Romney did not reprise a comment from Sunday when he said he knew what it was like to get a pink slip, but he pushed back against the notion that he ''started at the top.''
''I'm not perfect by any means,'' Mr. Romney said.
Even as his advisers worried whether the attacks on him would cut into his advantages in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney kept his focus squarely on the president.
''I don't know how we would survive four more years of Barack Obama,'' he said. He added, ''I'm not trying to fix the Republican Party, I'm trying to fix America.''
Campaigning in Anderson, S.C., Mr. Perry assailed Mr. Romney's experience as a business executive. He said that people in Gaffney, in particular, ''would find his comments incredible,'' because it is where he said Bain shout down a plant with 150 workers.
''That didn't happen until Mitt Romney's private equity firm, they looted that company with more than $20 million in management fees,'' he said.
He also charged that Mr. Romney's firm had done a deal in which it took $65 million in management fees out of a steel company but that 700 steelworkers in Georgetown, S.C., and Kansas City lost their jobs, their health insurance and ''large portions'' of their pensions.
''There's nothing wrong with being successful and making money -- that's the American dream,'' Mr. Perry said. ''But there is something inherently wrong when getting rich off failures and sticking it to someone else is how you do your business. I happen to think that that is indefensible.''
Campaigning in Hanover, N.H., Mr. Huntsman was hustling to build on a surge in the polls that drew unusually large crowds to his events Sunday and, according to his aides, helped Mr. Huntsman triple his previous online fund-raising record for a single day.
Mr. Huntsman kept returning to a moment in Sunday's debate, when he said Mr. Romney was wrong to criticize him for being Mr. Obama's ambassador to China. ''The nation is divided because of attitudes like that,'' Mr. Huntsman said at the time, drawing a burst of applause.
He gleefully mentioned it at a town-hall-style event in Keene, N.H., on Sunday night, saying, ''You learned in one fell swoop the difference between me and Mitt Romney.''
At Mary's Bakery in Henniker, Mr. Huntsman said Monday, ''I don't need to tell you there is a certain palpable energy on the ground that I think is going to manifest itself in polling places tomorrow.''
Mr. Santorum, campaigning in Salem, N.H., sought to lower expectations, saying he would be happy if he comes in second behind Mr. Romney in the primary on Tuesday.
''Oh, gosh, in my dreams second place!'' he said to a reporter who asked if coming in second would count as win. ''Given the fact that we're not running any media up here and we've only really spent five days here campaigning, second place would be a dream come true.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); HEALTH CARE (60%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JON HUNTSMAN (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



424 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Daley Will Leave The White House In Rare Shake-Up

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama announced Monday that the White House chief of staff, William M. Daley, was stepping down, jolting the top ranks of his administration less than a year before he faces a difficult re-election. Mr. Daley will be replaced by Jacob J. Lew, the budget director and a seasoned Washington insider with ties to Capitol Hill.
Mr. Daley, a fellow Chicagoan who was recruited by Mr. Obama a year ago to help strike bipartisan legislative deals, struggled to find his footing in a ferociously partisan Washington and failed to help his boss broker a huge budget agreement with Congressional Republicans last summer. His departure interrupts a run of good news for the White House, with tentative signs of life in the job market, victory over Republicans on the payroll tax and Republican presidential candidates assailing one another on the campaign trail.
It was a distracting shake-up in a White House that has prided itself on a lack of internal drama, with a tightly knit circle of loyal senior advisers playing a steadying role. Mr. Obama said he asked Mr. Daley to reconsider his decision -- made after a holiday respite from the capital -- but Mr. Daley, a 63-year-old member of a Chicago political dynasty, was determined to leave. 
''Obviously this was not easy news to hear,'' Mr. Obama said in a brief appearance in the State Dining Room, flanked by Mr. Daley and Mr. Lew. ''In the end,'' the president said, ''the pull of the hometown we both love -- a city that's been synonymous with the Daley family for generations -- was too great.''
Mr. Lew, known as Jack, is a mild-mannered and steady technocrat with long experience in the White House and on Capitol Hill, having served two administrations and a speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill. He was also a deputy to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, coordinating the ''civilian surge'' in Afghanistan, which Mr. Obama said would equip him to deal with foreign policy issues.
A major question, though, is whether Mr. Lew will be any more successful than Mr. Daley in establishing himself in the president's inner circle. It was not yet clear, for example, whether Mr. Lew would share some of his duties with Pete Rouse, a low-key former Congressional aide who is close to the president and was assigned some of Mr. Daley's responsibilities after the failed budget talks.
That move last fall, though portrayed by the White House as sensible sharing of the burden with an adroit colleague, ended up being seen as a very public rebuke of Mr. Daley, one that undermined his standing. Administration officials said Mr. Lew and Mr. Rouse would work out those issues between them, though one said Mr. Rouse was likely to remain influential.
Mr. Lew, however, has a broader web of contacts in Washington than Mr. Daley, a former banker and commerce secretary in the Clinton administration. He also enjoys support on Capitol Hill, where Mr. Daley was criticized for not adequately cultivating leaders like Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader who bristled last year when Mr. Daley seemed to blame Democrats as well as Republicans for lack of progress on Capitol Hill.
In a statement, Mr. Reid lavishly praised Mr. Lew, calling him a ''consummate professional with intimate knowledge of Congress.'' He gave credit to Mr. Daley for seeing through ''a tumultuous year in which Republicans' unprecedented obstructionism turned every issue into an all-or-nothing battle.''
Mr. Daley handed in his resignation to Mr. Obama last Tuesday after discussing it with his wife on vacation in Mexico during the Christmas holiday. In a resignation letter that was long on praise for Mr. Obama's accomplishments, Mr. Daley did not cite a specific reason for leaving, beyond declaring, ''It's time for me to go back to the city I love.'' He declined further comment.
''It's been a pretty frenetic year,'' said a senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity so that he could discuss private conversations. ''He felt like it was a propitious time.''
Mr. Daley, the son and brother of legendary Chicago mayors, proved to be an awkward fit on the Obama team. Chosen largely for his deal-making skills and ties to the business world, he failed to strike a ''grand bargain'' on the federal debt and deficit with the Republican speaker of the House, John A. Boehner -- a setback that left him and other White House staff members stunned and bruised for weeks.
Mr. Daley instituted a more button-down style at the White House, after the more temperamental style of his predecessor, Rahm Emanuel, who left to run for mayor of Chicago.
The news of Mr. Daley's departure was first reported by The Tribune Company newspaper chain.
That Mr. Daley was frustrated by Washington was no secret. In October, he told a Chicago television station that he planned to leave the White House in January 2013, at the end of Mr. Obama's first term. In an interview with The New York Times in September, he dwelt on the failed budget negotiations, and evinced little appetite for the cut-and-thrust of partisan combat that followed them.
''The nation is being pushed into that, by the Republican primaries, by the type of 'my-way-or-the-highway' language in Congress,'' he said.
Mr. Obama praised Mr. Daley for his role in shepherding trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. He also helped design the president's $447 billion jobs bill, which -- with the exception of a short-term extension in the payroll tax waiver and a few other odds and ends -- was stymied in Congress.
While the president said he asked Mr. Daley to reconsider his decision, he did not apply the kind of pressure he brought to bear on Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, who has for several months been eager to return to New York.
Administration officials said Mr. Daley would play a role in fund-raising for the Obama campaign, probably with the title of campaign co-chairman. With his family pedigree and Wall Street connections, he is likely to remain a force in Democratic politics. Mr. Obama said in his statement that he planned to consult Mr. Daley regularly.
The president also said that Mr. Lew, 55, had been Mr. Daley's choice as his replacement, and the ''one clear choice'' for the job. Mr. Lew worked alongside Mr. Daley in the effort to strike a budget deal with Republicans.
''Jack's economic advice has been invaluable and he has my complete trust, both because of his mastery of the numbers, but because of the values behind those numbers,'' Mr. Obama said, noting that Mr. Lew, who had served in the administration of President Bill Clinton, was the only budget director in history to preside over budget surpluses for three consecutive years.
Mr. Lew, who divides his time between New York and Washington, has built a reputation as a pragmatic liberal who believes Democrats must compromise with Republicans on long-term deficits in order to forestall draconian cuts to entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security.
Before joining the Obama administration, he was a banker at Citigroup, helping run a division with esoteric investments in real estate and construction -- a connection that was criticized by liberal groups on Monday. No successor as budget director to Mr. Lew was announced, but his deputy, Heather Higginbottom, and Rob Nabors, currently the Congressional liaison, were considered contenders for the post.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama announced on Monday that Jacob J. Lew, center, would replace William M. Daley as White House chief of staff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PETE ROUSE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



425 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: On Primary Eve, Rivals Try to Put Romney on Defensive

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Reporting was contributed by Michael Barbaro and Trip Gabriel in Manchester, N.H.; Richard A. Oppel Jr. in Anderson, S.C.; Ashley Parker in Hudson, N.H.; and Katharine Q. Seelye in Somersworth, N.H.

 BODY:
BEDFORD, N.H. -- Mitt Romney fought to keep an upper hand in the Republican presidential race on Monday as his rivals sought to slow his march to the nomination and raise doubts about his electability by branding him as a job-killing corporate villain.
As New Hampshire voters prepared to cast ballots Tuesday in the nation's first primary, Mr. Romney found himself on the unfamiliar terrain of defending his business pedigree against fellow Republicans as his challengers tried to tap into a populist sentiment. He played into the criticism with a handful of missteps, with rivals jumping on him for having suggested that he, too, has feared getting ''a pink slip.'' 
The attacks were so piercing that some leading Republicans urged the candidates to back off, saying they were only helping validate the argument that President Obama's re-election team has signaled would be central to its case against Mr. Romney if he becomes the nominee.
''If somebody's going to crumble, they better crumble before the nomination,'' said Newt Gingrich, accusing Mr. Romney of ''looting'' companies at his investment firm, Bain Capital. He added, ''Is capitalism really about the ability of a handful of rich people to manipulate the lives of thousands of other people and walk off with the money?''
Mr. Gingrich, who is fighting to keep his presidential aspirations alive, brazenly called on his benefactors to ''counterbalance Romney's millionaires'' and donate money to a group backing him that has opened a blistering $3.4 million advertising barrage against Mr. Romney in South Carolina. A pro-Romney group responded by announcing a $2.3 million campaign of its own.
A heated Republican debate over the ethics of aggressive business tactics -- and the broader implication that Mr. Romney was out of touch with the lives of ordinary people -- seemed incongruous for a party that is traditionally unapologetic about its embrace of corporate wealth creation. A daylong series of exchanges underscored the urgency facing the Republican hopefuls who are fighting for an edge when the race moves beyond New Hampshire.
Mr. Romney, whose standing in the state has slipped in recent days, anticipated the disparagement and is trying to put a human face on the private equity business to push back against being portrayed as a greedy titan who saw his own wealth rise as companies that Bain acquired laid off workers and closed factories. Mr. Romney, who went into business after receiving law and business degrees from Harvard and grew up as the son of the chairman of American Motors, seemed to acknowledge that he still needs to do more to connect with voters.
''For me, this is going to be a battle about describing my heart, my passion to help, if you will, the great majority of Americans,'' Mr. Romney said. He worked to brush aside the criticism of Bain, adding: ''I thought it was going to come from the president, from the Democrats, from the left, but instead it's coming from Speaker Gingrich and apparently others.''
On the eve of the New Hampshire primary, his Republican challengers were ready to pounce on any opening. When Mr. Romney argued that consumers should have more choices in how they get their health insurance, he said: ''It also means that if you don't like what they do, you can fire them.'' He added, ''I like being able to fire people who provide services to me.''
Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah seized on the remark barely an hour later, telling reporters at a rally in Concord, ''Governor Romney enjoys firing people; I enjoy creating jobs.'' He added, ''It may be that he's slightly out of touch with the economic reality playing out in America right now.''
The campaign of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas briefly invited visitors to its Web site to download Mr. Romney's comments about liking ''to fire people'' as a ring tone. Mr. Perry poked fun at Mr. Romney's weekend comments that he knew what it was like to fear a ''pink slip'' from a lost job. As he sought to salvage his candidacy in South Carolina, Mr. Perry told voters that Mr. Romney's firm had shut down a plant and fired 150 workers in the nearby town of Gaffney.
''I have no doubt Mitt Romney was worried about pink slips,'' Mr. Perry said, adding, ''I'm sure he was worried that he would run out of pink slips.''
Representative Ron Paul of Texas also made a cameo in the wealth distribution debate, using terms that one might be more likely to hear at an Occupy Wall Street rally. He did not mention Mr. Romney by name, but declared at a stop in Hollis: ''The wealth is taken from the middle class and it goes to the select few, who are the insiders.''
But it was Mr. Gingrich who led the charge, smiling and seeming to taunt his rival, saying: ''We'll see if he has broad shoulders and can stand the heat.''
Former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who is trying to emerge as the leading conservative alternative to Mr. Romney, said Monday that he would not participate in what he portrayed as attacks on free enterprise. ''I'm not making it a liability,'' Mr. Santorum told reporters in Derry. ''I believe in the private sector.''
Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio host, who has not been shy of expressing disagreement with Mr. Romney, came to his aid on Monday and said the language of Mr. Gingrich was ''out of bounds for those who value the free market.'' The chairman of the Club for Growth, Chris Chocola, called Mr. Gingrich's comments ''disgusting.''
Democratic strategists were gleeful that Mr. Romney's fellow Republicans were picking up the attack they have long been planning to make, which they hope will undermine the central rationale of Mr. Romney's candidacy, that he alone has experience as a job creator.
Yet advisers to the Romney campaign said they were pleased to have an argument that reminds voters of Mr. Romney's private-sector experience at a time of economic anxiety, with one saying derisively that Mr. Gingrich had made himself into the ''lead witness'' of the Obama campaign's expected general election attack.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Ron Paul, top
Newt Gingrich, center
and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. campaigning in New Hampshire on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ETHICS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (65%); PLANT CLOSINGS (60%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RON PAUL (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



426 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIVETHIRTYEIGHT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Ground Game Can Firm Up a Candidate's Footing

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER and MICAH COHEN

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. - The 2012 primary campaign has been by far the most volatile on record, with one candidate after another surging to the front of the pack and then falling back again.
Although this might seem self-evident, it can also be quantified. The Times's FiveThirtyEight blog has developed a measure of poll volatility that calculates how much a candidate's polling shifted month to month, above and beyond random variance. Since 1984, when primary polling became widespread, the candidates with the three highest volatility scores have been Newt Gingrich, Rick Perry, and Herman Cain, all of whom ran this year.
But there are also two candidates who have been clear exceptions. Support for Mitt Romney and Ron Paul has remained remarkably stable. They also happen to be the favorites in Tuesday's New Hampshire primary. 
What might explain their ability to avoid the swings of their rivals?
In part, it relates to an old-fashioned form of politics: the ground game. Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul have built the best field operations in New Hampshire and other early-voting states, many Republicans say. Mr. Romney's campaign office on Elm Street here is a hive of activity. On Saturday, more than 100 staff members and volunteers packed the premises, bounding around and leaving a tower of pizza boxes in their wake.
Mr. Paul's office, although not as well staffed, operates with military-like discipline. Visitors' names and phone numbers are promptly entered into a database. Doors are kept closed, and a ''liberty bell'' rings every time a caller converts a supporter from another campaign. It rang five times in our 20 minutes there.
But Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul are more than the exception than the rule, Republicans say. Other Republican field operations fall well short of historical New Hampshire standards, by several measures.
Rick Perry's office is just a mile down the road from Mr. Romney's, occupying much of the ground floor of a 12-story building. But it seems to exist in a parallel universe in which the primary has been called off. On Sunday, the office was run by a single mid-level staff member, whose voice echoed throughout the room. Everyone else was out knocking on doors, he said.
Mr. Gingrich's office was marginally better off. There was little evidence of organization; we roamed for five minutes before one of the dozen volunteers greeted us.
Operations like these suggest that campaigning in New Hampshire has undergone a paradigm shift: from a ground war, dominated by door-knocking and phone calls, to an air war, in which the candidate's fortunes are determined by paid and free media. Retail politics still exist - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. alone has conducted more than 160 events throughout the state - but the campaigns often leave little trace once the candidate is gone.
Mr. Romney's Elm Street office, and Mr. Paul's in Concord, are impressive partly by comparison: they are their candidates' only field offices in the state, but they still give each man a comparative advantage because no Republican campaign has more than two field offices here.
At this point in 2008, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama each had 16 field offices here, while John Edwards had 19, giving them a constant presence in small towns. In 2004, Wesley Clark's middling campaign had 11 field offices, and Howard Dean's had so many volunteers it opened two offices in Manchester alone.
Even Mr. Romney, who likes to run a tight ship, has scaled back to one office this year, from two offices four years ago.
''This has never happened before,'' said Ray Buckley, chairman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party. ''You would go to Claremont and there would be five or six offices,'' Mr. Buckley said, referring to a small city in central New Hampshire.
Stephen Duprey, the Republican National Committeeman for New Hampshire, agreed that this year was an anomaly, because most candidates had not opened offices outside of Manchester.
Some of the difference reflects strategic choices. New Hampshire is a small state. And phone calls can be placed from anywhere, using a script.
But much of the shift boils down to money. In a stagnant economy and facing increasing competition from ''super PACs,'' campaigns have failed to raise much of it.
''It just costs a lot,'' said Tim Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Huntsman. ''Obama, Hillary, Edwards had a ton of money to spend.''
Mr. Cain and Mr. Gingrich, with little money to spend, relied on media-driven swings in momentum, leaving themselves vulnerable when it reversed course. Mr. Perry's campaign took in more cash, but chose to fight by air. It spent the most money on advertising in Iowa, but had only middling rates of success contacting voters directly, leaving it with no reservoir of good will after he struggled in the debates.
''After the debates, I walked into the Cracker Barrel store in Hopkinton, which is one of those quintessential country stores where people are talking politics,'' Mr. Duprey recalled. ''Rick Perry didn't have anyone there saying, 'You know, he's really good, he just had a bad night.'''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Volatile Campaign Season in the Polls: In this FiveThirtyEight calculation, candidates since 1984 with volatile polling numbers during the primary season have positive scores. Candidates who performed more consistently have negative scores. Most Volatile Polling
 Most Stable Polling 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK PERRY (54%); HERMAN CAIN (54%); JON HUNTSMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012



427 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: A Brooklyn Tea Company Backed by a Socialist President

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: The government of Ecuador, led by socialist president Rafael Correa, has invested $500,000 in Runa, which makes tea from the Ecuadorian guayusa leaf. 

 BODY:
Forget its mild-mannered reputation: tea is not for the faint of heart. Last year, the United States tea industry brought in $6.5 billion thanks to a roster of heavy hitting, fiercely competitive brands, ranging from Honest Tea to Tazo and old-time stalwarts like Lipton.
So what are the chances that Runa - a start-up company peddling an obscure Amazonian leaf called guayusa - can elbow its way into this already crowded scene? Combine seemingly long odds with Runa's unlikely provenance: In 2008, a pair of Brown University undergrads, one doing linguistic research in the Amazon, the other studying marine biology, rerouted their career paths to become entrepreneurs after encountering the caffeinated guayusa leaf, which steeps into a potent brew, and realizing it hadn't yet been commercialized. 
Founders: Former classmates Tyler Gage and Dan MacCombie, both 26, founded Runa and are the company's president and executive vice president, respectively.
Employees: Runa has 5 full-time employees in Brooklyn, 30 in Ecuador.
Location: Headquartered in Brooklyn, N.Y., with Ecuadorian offices in Quito and Archidona.
Pitch: "We're a beverage company that creates livelihoods for indigenous farmers in the Amazon," Mr. Gage said, "and we produce beverages made from guayusa tea, which has more caffeine than any tea and double the antioxidants of green tea. It's an energy offering in the tea space."
On top of providing income to some 1,000 farmers, Mr. Gage said Runa puts money into a "social premium fund" the workers can tap collectively to finance local development projects. "Runa" means "fully living human being" in Kichwa, an indigenous language spoken in Ecuador and Colombia.
Traction: Runa's first big boost came in 2009, when the company won two contests in quick succession: a business plan competition at Brown University's Entrepreneurship Program, and the Rhode Island Business Plan Competition, bringing in more than $70,000 in cash and services.
Runa's tea bags and loose tea went on the market less than a year ago and are now available at some 1,200 stores nationwide, including Whole Foods, Kings, the Vitamin Shoppe and Wegmans. Runa also sells loose tea to larger companies -- Stash and Oregon Chai, to name a couple -- that use the leaves in their own blends. In March, Runa plans to introduce a line of bottled beverages, focusing at first on the New York and Boston markets.
Revenue: Runa's revenue for last year was $277,000, according to Mr. Gage. He expects Runa to surpass $1 million in sales for 2012.
Financing: Runa has received grants totaling $500,000 from the United States Agency for International Development and Corporacion Andina de Fomento, a Latin American development bank. In November, the company closed a $1.6 million round of angel investments. Now, Mr. Gage is seeking $2 million in a Series A equity round, which he hopes to close by the end of the fiscal year's second quarter.
Runa's most unusual backers so far? The government of Ecuador, led by socialist president Rafael Correa. In October, the country's Ministry of Production put $500,000 into the company through a national investment program.
"The social aspect of the company's business model - the high wages to farmers, the social benefit fund, and support for sustainable farming - are the real reason Ecuador is wise to play venture capitalist to a Brooklyn business," wrote Alex Goldmark, a GOOD magazine contributing editor, in a recent post about the unusual investment.
But the government's direct influence, Mr. Gage said, is limited. "They're very much in the backseat," he said. "They have one of six board seats."
Marketing: "We sponsor a lot of events, everything from design challenges to fundraisers, anywhere we can donate tea," Mr. Gage said. The company targets young professionals with "office drops" of product samples and holds frequent tastings in grocery stores, along with guerilla offerings at concerts, in parks and on the street.
Competition: Though Runa claims to be the lone exporter of guayusa, the company faces stiff competition from purveyors of other kinds of tea, along with energy drink manufacturers and companies selling yerba mate, another South American tea-like caffeinated beverage.
Challenge: "The biggest challenge right now is marketing," Mr. Gage said. "We've actually done more than we expected in terms of getting the product on the shelf. It all comes down to getting people to try it."
With so many teas and energy drinks already on the market, do you think Runa can build - and keep - a niche of its own?

        
Ambiq Micro Wins Another Business Competition
        
Bringing a Reality TV Business Competition to Afghanistan
        
Company With Osteoporosis Treatment Wins the 'Super Bowl'
        
Babson Competition Winners Sell Viral Videos, Healthful Foods
        
Medical Technology Dominates at the Olin Cup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEA (92%); COFFEE & TEA (91%); TEA FARMING (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); STARTUPS (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); LINGUISTICS (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); MARINE BIOLOGY (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%) business plan competition; Dan MacCombie; Ecuador; guayusa; Runa; Tyler Gage; Beverages; Small Business; Tea; United States Agency for International Development; Start

COMPANY: CORPORACION ANDINA DE FOMENTO (61%); VITAMIN SHOPPE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%) United States Agency for International Development

TICKER: VSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (61%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ECUADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (75%) Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



428 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: We're Eating Less Meat. Why?

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Studies and reports suggest a variety of reasons for the decline in American meat consumption, but one explanation is simple and obvious. 

 BODY:
Americans eat more meat than any other population in the world; about one-sixth of the total, though we're less than one-twentieth of the population.
But that's changing.
Until recently, almost everyone considered their dinner plate naked without a big old hunk of meat on it. (You remember "Beef: It's What's for Dinner," of course. How could you forget?) And we could afford it: our production methods and the denial of their true costs have kept meat cheap beyond all credibility. (American hamburger is arguably the cheapest convenience food there is.) This, in part, is why we spend a smaller percentage of our money on food than any other country, and much of that goes toward the roughly half-pound of meat each of us eats, on average, every day.
But that's changing, and considering the fairly steady climb in meat consumption over the last half-century, you might say the numbers are plummeting. The department of agriculture projects that our meat and poultry consumption will fall again this year, to about 12.2 percent less in 2012 than it was in 2007. Beef consumption has been in decline for about 20 years; the drop in chicken is even more dramatic, over the last five years or so; pork also has been steadily slipping for about five years.
Holy cow. What's up?

It's easy enough to round up the usual suspects, which is what a story in the Daily Livestock Report did last month. It blames the decline on growing exports, which make less meat available for Americans to buy. It blames it on ethanol, which has caused feed costs to rise, production to drop and prices to go up so producers can cover their increasing costs. It blames drought. It doesn't blame recession, which is surprising, because that's a factor also.
All of which makes some sense. The report then goes on to blame the federal government for "wag[ing] war on meat protein consumption" over the last 30-40 years.
Is this like the war on drugs? The war in Afghanistan? The war against cancer? Because what I see here is:

        
 a history of subsidies for the corn and soy that's fed to livestock
        
 a nearly free pass on environmental degradation and animal abuse
        
 an unwillingness to meaningfully limit the use of antibiotics in animal feed
        
 a failure to curb the stifling power that corporate meatpackers wield over smaller ranchers
        
 and what amounts to a refusal - despite the advice of real, disinterested experts, true scientists in fact - to unequivocally tell American consumers that they should be eating less meat
Or is the occasional environmental protection regulation and whisper that unlimited meat at every meal might not be ideal the equivalent of war? Is the U.S.D.A. buying $40 million worth of chicken products to reduce the surplus and raise retail prices the equivalent of war?
No. It's not the non-existent federal War on Meat that's making a difference. And even if availability is down, it's not as if we're going to the supermarket and finding empty meat cases and deli counters filled with coleslaw. The flaw in the report is that it treats American consumers as passive actors who are victims of diminishing supplies, rising costs and government bias against the meat industry. does it mention that we're eating less meat because we to eat less meat.
Yet conscious decisions are being made by consumers. Even buying less meat because prices are high and times are tough is a choice; other "sacrifices" could be made. We could cut back on junk food, or shirts or iPhones, which have a high meat-equivalent, to coin a term. Yet even though excess supply kept chicken prices lower than the year before, demand dropped.
Some are choosing to eat less meat for all the right reasons. The Values Institute at DGWB Advertising and Communications just named the rise of "flexitarianism" - an eating style that reduces the amount of meat without "going vegetarian" - as one of its top five consumer health trends for 2012. In an Allrecipes.com survey of 1,400 members, more than one-third of home cooks said they ate less meat in 2011 than in 2010. Back in June, a survey found that 50 percent of American adults said they were aware of the Meatless Monday campaign, with 27 percent of those aware reporting that they were actively reducing their meat consumption.
I can add, anecdotally, that when I ask audiences I speak to, "How many of you are eating less meat than you were 10 years ago?" at least two-thirds raise their hands. A self-selecting group to be sure, but nevertheless one that exists.
In fact, let's ask this: is in this country eating meat than they used to?
We still eat way more meat than is good for us or the environment, not to mention the animals. But a 12 percent reduction in just five years is significant, and if that decline were to continue for the next five years - well, that's something few would have imagined five years ago. It's something only the industry could get upset about. The rest of us should celebrate. Rice and beans, anyone? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); MEATS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); AGRICULTURE (87%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BEEF (78%); MAMMALS (78%); POULTRY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); ANIMAL FOODS (74%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (72%); ALCOHOLS (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%) meat consumption; the american diet; Meat; Mark Bittman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



429 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Hudson Independent: In Tarrytown, N.Y., an award-winning coffeehouse, Coffee Labs, fights for the right to let dogs hang out. -- Jeff Gordinier 
NPR: You and your cat share a powerful craving. No, not for Fancy Feast. For Mushrooms. -- Patrick Farrell
Bloomberg Businessweek: The ugly collapse of an ambitious attempt to manufacture Sweet-O brand sucralose (a purported new miracle artificial sweetener 600 times as sweet as sugar), in Moberly, Mo. An investigative story details the trail of laid-off workers, angry bondholders, unpaid vendors and lawsuits, as well as the devastating impact not only on Moberly's finances but also on the dreams of a recession--battered town. -- Glenn Collins 
The Washington Post: The United States will be the first country to impose catch limits for every seafood species it manages. -- Nick Fox 
Shutterfly: A slide show of tips for better food photography. No. 8: Get Close to Ugly Foods. -- Julia Moskin 
Girl Farm Kitchen: Broccoli soup inspired by life on a California farm. -- Jeff Gordinier 
City Room: Having tackled trans fats and soft drinks, New York City's health department starts an ad campaign against another contributor to obesity and diabetes: large portions. -- Patrick Farrell
The Economist: The South African government moves to ban all alcohol advertising in the country. The World Health Organization says each adult South African drinker downs an average of 35 liters of alcohol per year, double that in France or the United States, and the government says half the country's 14,000 yearly road deaths are attributable to intoxication. -- Glenn Collins
The Atlantic: What happens to supermarket foods after they hit their sell-by date? More than you'd think, especially in this downturn. -- Patrick Farrell 
SF Weekly: Are these the 10 best burritos in San Francisco? (Warning: Words and images might make you extremely hungry.) -- Jeff Gordinier 
Ideas in Food: Sausage meat and whole heads of cabbage: always a good match. -- Julia Moskin
Salon: I hear America singing, for its supper. From gospel to the blues to Elvis, roots music has often crooned about food, as a saucy stand-in for sex. Fats Waller had his "Rump Steak Serenade," but Memphis Minnie sang it best: "I'm going to tell everybody I've got the best butcher man in town,/ He can slice your ham, he can cut it from the fat on down." -- Patrick Farrell
Jest: Love McDonald's and don't want people to know it? Try a shame mask. -- Nick Fox
Herbivoracious: Brussels sprouts, shiitakes, smoked paprika: You can't go wrong. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Wall Street Journal: Can romance between a foodie and a meat-and-potatoes type be saved? Maybe. -- Patrick Farrell
Dinner A Love Story: Some thoughts on how to tell whether you've cooked dinner long enough. -- Jeff Gordinier
The New York Times: Algorithms, al dente: Mathematicians are using pasta shapes as a portal into advanced geometry. With a neat interactive look at their formulas for recreating the forms. -- Patrick Farrell
Tasting Table: From Moreno Cedroni comes canned tuna you don't have to be embarrassed about. And next ... are you ready for canned monkfish liver? -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); PET FOODS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); CATS (77%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SOFT DRINKS (73%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (73%); LITIGATION (73%); OBESITY (71%); OILS & FATS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (65%); DIABETES (51%)

COMPANY: SHUTTERFLY INC (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: SFLY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812921 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (EXCEPT ONE-HOUR) (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC7384 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



430 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Coil Festival: 5 Questions About 'Mission Drift'

BYLINE: ERIK PIEPENBURG


HIGHLIGHT: An interview with Rachel Chavkin about "Mission Drift," the latest work from the New York-based theater company the TEAM. 

 BODY:
Rock music, Dutch teenagers, global financial turmoil, the best and worst of Las Vegas: all of it takes the stage in "Mission Drift," by the New York-based theater company the TEAM (Theater of the Emerging American Moment). The piece comes to New York as part of this year's Coil Festival after winning several awards at last year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe. 
Rachel Chavkin, the company's artistic director, recently spoke with ArtsBeat about American myths, Vegas iconography and musicalizing capitalism. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 
Q.
A.
 We call it an epic journey west through time and space in pursuit of the soul of American capitalism. It tells two interweaving love stories. One is a saga of two immortal Dutch 14-year-olds who travel west from Amsterdam to New Amsterdam in 1624, all the way to modern-day Las Vegas. They become these capitalist gods along the way.
The other story is really a more intimate one, about a cocktail waitress who meets and falls in love with a loner cowboy, also in modern Las Vegas. Both have been thrust out of their lives by the growth of Las Vegas.
Q.
Thematically the piece comes out of trying to answer what defines American capitalism specifically, versus the shape that capitalism took anywhere else in the world. We answer that question by looking at the frontier and how the history of the frontier shaped our expectation of this perpetual bonanza and unimpeded growth.
We're not attempting to make a harsh or one-sided critique of capitalism in this country. I think audiences will see the frontier spirit celebrated and pitied as much as it's dissected and the underbelly and the costs of it are shown.
Q.
A.
 Our process started off scholarly but it became clear to us that that was not going to be enough. The entire company moved to Las Vegas in June of 2010. It felt really important to be on the ground and spend time there researching and seeing the city for ourselves. 
It's such a strange American city. We rented two homes online, sight unseen, and one of them turned out to be foreclosed. We discovered that when we saw a notice on the door. 
Remember, Las Vegas was this tiny Western desert town for most of the 20th century. The images that came out of Vegas governed the entire image of American that was shaped during the post-World War II superpower period: the atomic bomb, Sinatra, Elvis, all that. But when we were there we discovered an abandoned construction site where there were paved driveways with no houses and street signs with no names. The city gave us more than we ever could have hoped. 
We also spoke with members of the culinary union about the financial traumas their members were dealing with because so many casino projects were put on hold when the recession hit. That was one very emotional experience.
Q.
A.
 The set design is inspired by this bomb shelter that we found images of that's about 100 feet underground in the Nevada desert. It's like a ranch house complete with running water and fake trees. The set combines these images of that ranch house and the atomic bomb with western leisure run amok. We project the lyrics to the songs because the songs are poetic, not narrative. We show the audience the words, almost like opera.
The costumes are contemporary, sort of irreverently so. We're mixing mythology and history alongside this more ancient story.
Q.
A.
 I think the project is endowed with the joy and glee that makes up Las Vegas, this idea of what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas. Fun is a huge part of it. At the same time the story ends up being this elegy for this city that has been destroyed. Not to offend our friends in Las Vegas, because it's a city we really enjoyed. But in many ways it's a city that's fighting for its life. I think there's something powerful about that in terms of thinking about the original question, which is what defines American capitalism.

        
Rabih Mroue at Coil Festival: Making Sense of a Mysterious Disappearance in Lebanon
        
Under the Radar: 5 Questions About 'Goodbar'
        
Under the Radar: 5 Questions About 'Word Becomes Flesh'
        
Theater Talkback: Finding Other Thrills in Dance, Song and Wide Receiving
        
Under the Radar: 5 Questions About 'Alexis: A Greek Tragedy'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); POP & ROCK (74%); CASINOS (73%); CITY LIFE (61%); CITIES (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%) Coil Festival; Theater; Theater of the Emerging American Moment; Rachel Chavkin; Mission Drift (Play); New York City

ORGANIZATION: Theater of the Emerging American Moment

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (72%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



431 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: View of the World From New Hampshire and Iowa

BYLINE: JULIET LAPIDOS


HIGHLIGHT: The two states with the largest influence on the primary process fail to reflect the demographics of the United States. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -While traveling around Iowa and New Hampshire, I've been surrounded by white people. With few exceptions, the only non-whites I've encountered have been journalists who've parachuted into these states to cover the Republican campaigns.
This is not surprising: Iowa is 88.6 percent white, and New Hampshire 92.2 percent white. Compare those numbers to the country as a whole, which is 63.7 percent white.
Large white populations are not the only ways in which these two early-voting states, which play such a significant role in choosing presidential nominees, fail to reflect the United States in the 21st century.
I asked Andrew Beveridge, a sociologist who has done consulting work for The Times and is the CEO of Social Explorer, to help me put the demographic differences between Iowa, New Hampshire and the United States into perspective. Here's what we came up with, based on 2010 data unless otherwise indicated.

Black population
United States: 12.3 %
Iowa: 3.1 %
New Hampshire: 1.1 %
Hispanic population
United States: 16.4 %
Iowa: 5.0 %
New Hampshire: 2.8 %
Married couple households
United States: 48.6%
Iowa: 51.8 %
New Hampshire: 53.2 %
Population 25 and up with a BA or higher
United States: 28.2 %
Iowa: 24.9 %
New Hampshire: 32.8 %
Unemployment [November, 2011 data]
United States: 8.7 %
Iowa: 5.7 %
New Hampshire: 5.2 %
Median household income
United States: $50,046
Iowa: $47,961
New Hampshire: $61,042
New Hampshire and Iowa are less ethnically diverse, have less unemployment, and have more married-couple households than the rest of the country. New Hampshire does better, and Iowa slightly worse than the national average on household income and college graduates. Stopping well short of saying that Iowa and New Hampshire aren't "the real America," it's clear that these states aren't average, either.
This matters because the primary contest might unravel differently if it started in places that were more representative. Here are the most average states, by category:
Black population
Ohio: 12.1 %
Hispanic population
New York: 17.7 %
Illinois: 15.9 %
Married couple households
Arizona: 48.6 %
Oregon: 48.6 %
Population 25 and up with a BA or higher
Nebraska: 28.6 %
Alaska: 27.9 %
Delaware: 27.8 %
Unemployment [November, 2011 data]
Alabama 8.7%
Arizona 8.7%
Washington 8.7%
Median household income
Nevada: $51,001
Vermont: $49,406
It's unlikely that Iowa and New Hampshire will lose first-in-the-nation status any time soon, and it wouldn't necessarily make sense to revamp the primary calendar every four years based on demographic trends. But there's another alternative. To diminish the likelihood of having outlier-populations choose the front runner, Americans could do away with the state-by-state approach altogether in favor of four regional primaries-a position the Times editorial board endorsed in 2005.

        
Romney's Big Government Critique Runs Into a New Hampshire Roadblock
        
Ronald Reagan Versus Saul Alinsky
        
New Jersey Reconsiders Same-Sex Marriage; Santorum Worries About Polygamy
        
Mitt Romney's Search for Something Not Embarrassing to Say
        
Race and Politics, Revisited

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (74%) Demographics; iowa caucuses; New Hampshire; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



432 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Amid Inquiry, Liu Marks His Birthday With a Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK and DAVID W. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The mood at the birthday party for John C. Liu, the city comptroller, which also served as a fund-raiser, was cheery despite the shadow of a widening federal investigation into Mr. Liu's campaign finance operation. 

 BODY:
As birthday parties go, turning 45 usually doesn't mean a lot. But it sure did for John C. Liu, the city comptroller.
Mr. Liu marked his 45th birthday with a fund-raiser on Monday night at a favorite spot of political power brokers, City Hall restaurant in TriBeCa. And the event attracted an inordinate amount of attention, not just because Mr. Liu's campaign finances have come under scrutiny thanks to a widening federal investigation, but also because it was the first major fund-raiser he has held since he decided to accept donations of up to $4,950, the maximum allowed for individual donors.
Until December, Mr. Liu, who is contemplating a run for mayor in 2013, had distinguished himself among potential candidates by imposing a cap of $800, to reflect the lucky number 8 in Chinese culture, but also to underscore the breadth of his support. But the federal probe has had a chilling effect on potential donors, according to his supporters, so he decided recently to lift that cap, to fill his coffers before the next filing deadline of Jan. 11.
But all of that was just background noise, at least for a few hours, on Monday, as Mr. Liu joined about 200 supporters at a party that, according to participants, was remarkably cheery. (Mr. Liu's actual birthday was on Sunday).
Mr. Liu, for one, joked to a large group of reporters who had waited for his arrival: "Well, this is a record for me in terms of fund-raising. So much media!"
He added that he was "elated" about the turnout at the event, and hopeful about the outcome.
"The goal, as with any fund-raiser, is to raise as much money as possible," said Mr. Liu, who has been exceptionally generous with city commendations during his tenure. "Obviously, within the rules and the limits."
(On Tuesday, a spokesman for Mr. Liu's campaign said the fund-raiser had generated over $100,000 in contributions).
Among the notables who showed up: several City Council members, including Ydanis Rodriguez, Daniel Dromm and Larry B. Seabrook, whose recent corruption case ended in a mistrial; and labor leaders, including Michael Mulgrew of the United Federation of Teachers, Lillian Roberts of District Council 37, and Al Hagen of the Uniformed Fire Officers Association.
Afterward, Mr. Liu's supporters offered broad praise.
"I know John Liu; he's a good man," said Mr. Dromm, of Queens. "He was in a good mood. He was jovial."
Mr. Mulgrew, meanwhile, said that "we at the United Federation of Teachers support him," but noted that Mr. Liu's possible bid for mayor had not yet come up.
Mr. Mulgrew added that Mr. Liu's continuing investigation was mentioned only in a joke.
"He just said, 'My name recognition's going up.'"

        
Report Forecasts Steady Growth for City's Economy
        
Service Disruptions: Half or Whole Hog?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); MISTRIAL (50%) Comptroller John C. Liu; Dromm, Daniel; Liu, John C; Mulgrew, Michael; Roberts, Lillian; Seabrook, Larry B; Campaign Finance; Elections; District Council 37; Office of the Comptroller (NYC); Uniformed Fire Officers Assn; United Federation of Teachers; City Hall; Government & Politics

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%) District Council 37; Office of the Comptroller (NYC); Uniformed Fire Officers Assn; United Federation of Teachers

PERSON: Dromm, Daniel; Liu, John C; Mulgrew, Michael; Roberts, Lillian; Seabrook, Larry B

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



433 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Questioning a 'New Perspective' in Times Square

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: China's state-run news agency, Xinhua, the official propaganda branch of the Communist Party there, commands major advertising space in the heart of New York City. 

 BODY:
Over the weekend, China's state-run news agency, Xinhua, wagged a stern finger at the United States, warning it not to "recklessly practice militarism" or resort to "war mongering" in its new defense strategy of expanding the American presence in Asia and the Pacific.
 Lecturing countries, to the point of menacing them, isn't normally the province of news agencies, not as we understand their role in this country. It's hard to imagine the Associated Press telling Iran that it had better watch its step in the Strait of Hormuz, or else.
 But then, Xinhua is not exactly the Associated Press. It is the official propaganda branch of the Communist Party in China. When it starts the wagging, you can bet that finger really belongs to the Beijing government.
 So you might wonder if an agency like this, essentially a microphone for a regime that for all its economic prowess remains a bastion of repression, ought to command major space to advertise itself in the heart of New York City.
 For the past five months, the facade of 2 Times Square, at the northern end of the square, has carried an LED sign announcing the glories of Xinhua, which is pronounced Shin-wa and means New China News Agency. The sign is enormous, 64 feet high by 40 feet wide. The graphics are certainly impressive, especially if you like plenty of images of Shandong Province, where Confucius was born.
 "A new perspective" is how a Xinhua catchphrase goes.
 The agency's perspective is the core of the matter. People more familiar with its coverage than we are say that it does a reasonably credible job of reporting the world beyond China's borders. But don't bother subscribing to it, they say, for anything approaching reality on topics like Tibet or the mass imprisonment of domestic dissidents or the thousands of executions a year.
 "In Xinhua's world," Newsweek and The Daily Beast wrote in September 2010, "the Tiananmen Square massacre never happened, Falun Gong is an evil cult and the Dalai Lama is the Guy Fawkes of Tibet." 
 Given this, it seemed reasonable to ask the owner of 2 Times Square, Sherwood Equities, if agreeing to a multiyear lease with Xinhua had given it pause. The advertising at that building is overseen by a subsidiary, Sherwood Outdoor. 
 "We were aware of what we were doing," said Jeffrey Katz, the chief executive and principal owner of Sherwood Equities. "We had conversations about it. They said to us when they did this, 'We're coming here to have a credible news agency.' We said to them that in this country we'll know soon enough whether it's credible or not."
 "I've heard the criticism, and it's not unfounded," Mr. Katz said. "But nothing's without risk, and I think the world is kind of slowly changing, so hopefully something good will come of it."
 For now, he said, he was content with how things were going and that "it will turn out as we all hope."
 Business with China is, quite simply, about business. That's why in October 2009 the Empire State Building bathed itself in red and yellow, the colors of the Chinese flag, to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. Honoring the 60th anniversary of often-murderous Communist rule is another way to look at it. True to themselves, human rights groups with offices in the Empire State protested this tribute in lights.
 Xinhua's desire to do business "in a very big way" was important, said Brian Turner, president of Sherwood Outdoor. "If we declined it for whatever reason, because of who they are and what they may be or who maybe they're not, wouldn't we be doing the same thing that they do in their country?" Mr. Turner said.
 Perhaps. But does upholding American values of free expression require leasing space to anyone? What if the would-be renter were Iran's Fars News Agency or the Korean Central News Agency of North Korea?
 At least Xinhua confines its slogan to "a new perspective." It doesn't pretend to a phrase like "fair and balanced." Then again, that one is already taken, isn't it?

        
In Times Square, a Billboard to Help Ex-Prisoners
        
Everywhere a Sign, in Times Square
        
G.M. Says Farewell to Times Square
        
A Drugstore's Blazing Return to Times Square
        
A 'Full Body Wrap' for Times Sq. Shuttle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); CULTS & SECTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%) advertising; China; Times Square; Xinhua; News and News Media; Outdoor Advertising; Sherwood Equities Inc; Sherwood Outdoor; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); The Day

ORGANIZATION: Sherwood Equities Inc; Sherwood Outdoor; Xinhua

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) China; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



434 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Bike Tour's Popularity Leads to Changes

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY


HIGHLIGHT: The popularity of the TD Five Boro Bike Tour is leading to a new registration process, staggered starts and a modification of the route. 

 BODY:
Given the Bloomberg administration's continued push to have the city become more hospitable to bicyclists, it should come as little surprise that the TD Five Boro Bike Tour has grown in popularity - almost to its own detriment.
Last year, the registration period lasted all of 24 hours, freezing out many who had wanted to participate. And once the event began, about 3,000 riders were stranded for hours in a major bicyclist bottleneck on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
This year will be different, the organizers say, and it will start with a registration lottery. 
"Last year there were challenges and there were difficulties, and I lost sleep over it," said Ken Podziba, the president and chief executive of Bike New York, which organizes the 40-mile tour, to be held May 6. "We can do better than last year and we will do better."
The lottery will open next Tuesday and run through Feb. 7. The 32,000 winners will be notified no later than March 1. Mr. Podziba said riders who do not get in through the lottery can raise $750 for a charity and get a spot. 
Last year, with 32,120 applications in the first 24 hours, Bike New York's computer system crashed, Mr. Podziba said. In 2010, it took 25 days for 31,465 registrations, and in 2009, more than a month for 30,097. Mr. Podziba added that the lottery system could attract riders from outside the area, and their spending would help the broader economy.
To avoid a bottleneck like last year's on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, Mr. Podziba said, Bike New York will space out riders across three starting times. The route is also being changed, with riders taking the Gowanus Expressway instead of the Shore Parkway toward Staten Island. He said Bike New York was adding a rest stop at Brooklyn Bridge Park with restrooms, food, water and entertainment.
Mr. Podziba said he had been working with officials at the New York Police Department and the City Transportation Department to keep a smooth flow to the tour. If bottlenecks arise, the organizers will hold riders back at rest stops.
Riders will also be able to learn about bottlenecks in advance by checking text messages, Twitter and Facebook during breaks. Many participants communicated about problems last year through Twitter.

        
Classic Newsstand Gets Ready to Roll
        
Police Crack Down on Prospect Park Bicyclists
        
Study Finds Higher Number of Pedestrians Hurt by Bikes
        
Click if You See a Female Cyclist in Manhattan
        
A Spooky Reminder to Obey the Speed Limit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); SPEED LIMITS (50%) bicycling; Bicycles and Bicycling; Bike New York; New York City; TD Five Boro Bike Tour; City Sports; Transportation

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Bike New York

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



435 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the Early Exit Polls

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Preliminary exit polls of New Hampshire voters showed economic concerns drove most choices -- though many choices were made within the last few days. 

 BODY:
Economic Concerns Drive More Votes in New Hampshire Than Iowa
How do New Hampshire voters differ from those who cast ballots in Iowa last week?
According to preliminary exit poll results, about 6 in 10 New Hampshire voters call the economy the issue that mattered most to them in deciding which candidate to support.
If that holds as more New Hampshire voters explain their voting rationale, it would be far more than the number of Iowa caucus voters who said the same (42 percent). About a quarter of New Hampshire voters say the budget deficit is their top issue.
In Iowa, nearly one in four said they were looking most for someone who is a true conservative. Fewer have said the same as they exited polling locations in New Hampshire.
About a third of New Hampshire voters say the candidate quality that mattered most to them was someone who could defeat President Obama in November, while about a quarter say someone who has the right experience and nearly as many say someone who has strong moral character.
And while New Hampshire voters are very concerned with the national economy, they are feeling solid when it comes to their own finances. 
Over 90 percent are either very (two-thirds) or somewhat (one-quarter) worried about the direction of the nation's economy over the next few years. At the same time, two-thirds say that their own financial situation is holding steady. Fewer than 20 percent say they are falling behind.
Perhaps as a result of this national concern combined with personal security, their primary economic concern is controlling the deficit rather than spending on job growth. 
About three-fifths want to focus on cutting the deficit, even if it limits job growth. While the remaining two-fifths would prefer to focus on job growth even if it increases the deficit.
Experienced Voters, Late Deciders
For New Hampshire residents, voting is pretty much old hat.
Preliminary exit poll results find fewer first-time voters in New Hampshire than there were in Iowa. Just over 1 in 10 voters say today was their first time voting in a Republican presidential primary; in last week's Iowa caucuses, nearly 4 in 10 were first-time caucus-goers.
But the Republican primary this year has confounded many voters, who said they decided only in the last several days, as the candidates picked up their efforts to win support here.
In the data so far, there are about as many late deciders in New Hampshire as there were last week. Nearly half of New Hampshire voters say they made up their minds only within the last few days, including about 2 in 10 who said they just decided today.
In Iowa, Ron Paul beat out the other candidates among first-time voters while late deciders favored Rick Santorum. We'll keep an eye on later data coming in from New Hampshire to see who these groups support today. 
Satisfied With the Field and Most Confident in Romney 
New Hampshire voters are pushing back against the narrative that Republicans are frustrated by their choices. Two-thirds report that they are satisfied with their current field of Republican primary candidates. Only around three-in-ten would like to see another candidate running for the nomination.
When it comes to the specific candidates, however, only a Mitt Romney nomination would satisfy a majority of voters. Three fifths of primary voters say they would be satisfied if Mitt Romney won the Republican nomination. They also, incidentally, see him as being the most electable in a November match-up against President Obama. A slight majority of primary voters choose Mr. Romney over all of the other candidates as the strongest general election candidate. No other candidate reaches 20 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (68%) The Caucus

PERSON: RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



436 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: In One Girl's Story, a Test of Women's Rights in Afghanistan

BYLINE: GRAHAM BOWLEY


HIGHLIGHT: The case of Sahar Gul, a teen-ager confined and abused by her husband and his family, has become a test of whether Afghanistan is starting to take women's rights seriously. 

 BODY:
 I went to find Sahar Gul.
Hers was not the kind of story I expected to find in my first week as a reporter in this war-ravaged country, where attacks and counterattacks by the insurgents and the United States-led alliance seem the more common narrative.
Afghan government officials say that Sahar Gul is 15, and that her husband's family in Baghlan Province in northern Afghanistan tortured her and kept in a dirty basement bathroom with limited food and water for five months for refusing to go into prostitution. 
Her suffering seemed a part of a nation where advances in human rights appear meager. And now as the alliance prepares to withdraw and the Taliban encroaches, the whole country seems to be holding its breath to see what happens next. For now, it was enough to know what would happen to this one little girl.
Sahar Gul, I learned, had been taken to a government hospital in central Kabul, only a mile or so from the New York Times bureau.
My translator and I drove out past the main military hospital, which was the target of a suicide bombing last May. Soldiers, blast walls and rolls of barbed wire now defend it like a garrison. 
Further on, we passed two checkpoints where more guards with guns peered cold-eyed into our car. Even hospitals are targets for the Taliban's new insurgency in Afghanistan.
The Wazir Akbar Khan Hospital, known locally as WAK, is a four-story white building with balconies in a sunny compound. It bears a large portrait of its namesake, the Afghan hero of the First Anglo-Afghan War who, as my Afghan translator gleefully reminded me, killed the senior British envoy, Sir William Hay Macnaghten.
Inside, the hospital corridors were clean but frayed and crowded -- the product of a society whose resources have been drained by decades of conflict. Near the door, two men lay on beds, one with his leg in a cast, another not dead but with a blanket over his head. Beside them, patients and their families waited on rows of blue plastic seats. An old woman held up a drip leading into her arm. Trollies bearing big kettles of rice were wheeled by. Pink or blue Croc shoes seemed to be the favored footwear of the doctors.
Mirwais Ayoubi, a tall, thick-set man who is the hospital director's secretary, shook his head at us.
"No one can see Sahar Gul," he said. "Too many people have come to see her. She has psychological problems. She is hitting herself. "
I told him that we didn't want to talk to Sahar Gul if it would upset her. We just wanted to tell her story, and we had a signed permission letter from the Public Health Ministry.
Mr. Ayoubi disappeared into the director's office behind a big, frosted-glass wall, through which the afternoon sun was shining. But when he returned, he furrowed his brow and said the same thing. "You can't see Sahar Gul."
Outside, I talked to people who were milling around. Sahar Gul's story was just one among many. A student, Noor Habib, 22, with a scarf over his head to protect against the cold, was waiting to go inside to visit his brother who had hepatitis. Another brother, he told us, was a soldier in the Afghan army, but he had been killed in the fighting against insurgents.
The hospital was "so-so," he said. "The doctors sometimes are good and let you visit the patients, but the food is not good. Beans, milk, egg, rice."
Behind us, three cars and a police jeep lined up the concrete ramp to the door to deliver more huddled-over patients. Another man, Safiullah Ahmadi, 32, was crouching near a barbed wire fence close to the hospital mosque. His mother was inside with an appendix problem, he said. He was unemployed. He told me that while the government hospital was free, you always ended up paying something, a mark-up, especially for the drugs they prescribed. "They ask you to go to a special drug store they know, and you have to pay a little more," he said.
When I arrived back at the Times's bureau, I found that the Associated Press had also visited the hospital -- and had more luck interviewing Sahar Gul. 
When I was reporting for the business desk, being doggedly persistent -- and even pushy -- to get access to a protected source was a feature of normal life. But I am new to reporting in Afghanistan, and I have found myself treading lightly around a culture to which I'm not yet accustomed. But I realized that despite the delicacy of the situation, I should have pushed past 'no.' Her story was too important. 
The next day, Sunday, we returned to Wazir Akbhar Khan. And this time, I wouldn't be turned away. 
Sayad Hassan, a white-bearded man who was in charge of the nurses, led us up the tiled stairwell to Sahar Gul's room.
I found a small girl, cringing beneath a comforter. Her face was cut and scratched, her left eye bruised and half closed. Her forearm was withered and thin. Her hair was a dark tangle beneath a brown headscarf. 
An old woman, who said she was her aunt, held a carton of mango juice as the girl turned her head on the pillow and drank through a straw. A second woman there said she was from the government's human rights commission.
I knelt down beside her bed and asked how she was feeling. Her voice was soft and meandering.
"I would like bread," she said.
 Her doctor, Feriba Omarzada, a plump woman in a white coat and headscarf, came into the room.
"She only eats bread now," Dr. Omarzada said. "That is all they fed her."
Sahar Gul rubbed her eye repeatedly. She still seemed dazed, barely comprehending that I was there.
"She has some headaches," the doctor said. "She had stress but her fever is O.K." She spoke to the girl: "Put your legs straight. Move your legs. They should see you can do these things."
X-ray pictures lay on the side table and two bouquets of flowers from well-wishers. There were plans to take the girl to India for treatment, but her doctor said she was well enough to now stay in Kabul. 
Sahar Gul, from Badakhshan Province in the far northwest, left home when her brother was married and his wife did not want her in their house. They found her a husband, Ghulam Sakhi, now 30, a soldier who had served in the Afghan Army in Helmand Province. She was married off for 246,000 Afghanis, or about $5,000, the doctor and the two other women in the room told me.
She moved to Baghlan, a journey across two provinces on poor roads that can take one or two days. Government officials had said she was 14 then, and by now was 15, but no one really knew her actual age, it seemed. 
"She is not that old," Doctor Omarzada said. "I have washed her and I think she is only 13 now. I see she is not even a woman."
In Baghlan, her new family tried to force her into prostitution. She ran away, but a neighbor caught her. Her husband and his family locked her in a dingy basement bathroom, beat her,and worse, the women in the room and the doctor told me. 
Her uncle came to visit but they said she was not at home. But when he came another time, another neighbor said they were hiding her. The uncle called the police and they broke down the basement door, according to officials.
 Sahar Gul held out her blackened fingertip where a nail was missing.
"My husband took away my nail," she said in a low whisper.
Her father-in-law pulled out chunks of skin from her chest and other parts of her body with pliers and burned her hair with a hot poker, said the doctor, lifting back the girl's hair from her ear to show her injuries.
"Do you know where your husband is?" I asked.
Sahar Gul, just one victim in this war-torn country, put her finger in her mouth and distractedly rubbed her gum. She couldn't say.
The extent and length of her ordeal has become big news in the country. Even President Hamid Karzai has taken up her case. Last Sunday, he spoke out about the girl's plight in a statement, saying that the case had to be pursued and that the people responsible should be arrested.
As of this writing, officials say that the police have arrested her mother-in-law, sister-in-law and father-in-law. They are still searching for her husband, who has fled.
The quick arrests may be a small sign that the Afghan government is starting to take women's rights seriously, though others say the government was only prompted into action by embarrassing news media reports. But no one knows what will now happen to Sahar Gul.
 "She has psychological problems," Doctor Omarzada said. "The government will decide."

        
Fallout From Urination Video Spreads
        
In Common
        
Mao's Rockets and Modern War, Part III
        
Lens: Visual Power in a Horrific Scene
        
From a Military Wife, Words on War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); WOMEN (91%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HOSPITALS (88%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%); TORTURE (76%); FAMILY (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); PROSTITUTION (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) Afghanistan; child abuse; Sahar Gul; Gul, Sahar; Child Abuse and Neglect; Domestic Violence; Women and Girls

PERSON: Gul, Sahar

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



437 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Who Fires Whom?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What Romney actually said, in context, was worse. 

 BODY:
Aaron Carroll has an excellent analysis of Mitt Romney's faux pas on firing people. No, Romney didn't actually say that he enjoys firing people -- but what he really did say, that competition works in health care because you can fire your insurance company, was actually worse. Carroll:
The real issue, unfortunately, is that very, very few people have the luxury that Gov. Romney is endorsing. Let's say that you are self-employed, and lucky enough to have found a company to provide you with health insurance. Then, let's say you develop cancer. You suddenly find out that your insurance company stinks. So you fire them, right?
Of course not. You're screwed. Now you have a pre-existing condition. There's not an insurance company out there that wants to cover you. So you don't fire them. You scream, and curse, and cry, but you're stuck. Only healthy people have the luxury of picking and choosing.
Let's also not forget that most people don't find out that they're not getting "good service" until they're sick. Healthy people don't make much use of their insurance, so they don't know how bad it is. They only find out after they're ill, and then it's too late. It's only fun to fire the insurance company if you're sure you can go to another company to get what you need. Almost no one can.
Why, it's as if Romney doesn't understand his own health reform, which was in large part about ensuring not that you can fire your insurance company, but rather about ensuring that your insurance company can't fire YOU.
And this is a bit subjective, but isn't it awesome how Romney's lack of empathy shines through? He evidently has no sense of what it's like NOT to be the very wealthy son of an already wealthy father; no idea how the fear of unemployment or medical bills afflicts ordinary Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



438 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Businessmen and Economics

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Not a good match. 

 BODY:
A brief thought on something I'll try to expand on later. Leaving aside all the questions about what Mitt Romney did or didn't do at Bain -- and about his self-aggrandizing double standard -- there's an even broader question: why does anyone believe that success in business qualified someone to make economic policy?
For the fact is that running a business is nothing at all like making macro policy. The key point about macroeconomics is the pervasiveness of feedback loops due to the fact that workers are also consumers. No business sells a large fraction of its output to its own workers; even very small countries sell around two-thirds of their output to themselves, because that much is non-tradable services.
This makes a huge difference. A businessman can slash his workforce in half, produce about the same as before, and be considered a big success; an economy that does the same plunges into depression, and ends up not being able to sell its goods. Nothing in business experience prepares one for the paradox of thrift, or even the inflationary impact of increases in the money supply (which is real when the economy isn't in a liquidity trap.) 
And I haven't even mentioned the fact that presidents need to work with Congress, and face far more limits on their authority than CEOs.
The idea that what America needs now is an executive type is just foolish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



439 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: NYSE and Deutsche Borse Chiefs to Discuss Plans to Save Merger

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The chief executives of the two exchange operators plan to meet in New York to discuss their next steps as European antitrust regulators continue to signal opposition to the merger of their two companies. 

 BODY:
4:12 p.m. | Updated 
The chief executives of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse plan to meet on Wednesday to discuss the next steps in the planned merger of their two companies, as European antitrust regulators take steps to block the proposed deal, according to people briefed on the matter.
The two chiefs, Duncan L. Niederauer of NYSE Euronext and Reto Francioni of Deutsche Borse, will meet in New York as part of a regularly scheduled gathering of executives from both companies, these people added.
For months, the European Commission's antitrust office has raised concern about the creation of the world's biggest stock exchange operator, arguing that the would create a monopoly on exchange-traded derivatives on the Continent. Any formal proposal to block the deal would require the approval of the full European Commission, as well as input from an array of antitrust experts from member nations.
 Such a move is likely to prompt public lobbying by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, which have already extended the deadline for completing the merger in anticipation of antitrust opposition. The two exchange operators still have until about Feb. 9 to change commissioners' minds.
A spokeswoman for the European Commission declined to comment. A spokesman for NYSE Euronext said in a statement: "NYSE Euronext has not yet received any official decision by the European Commission regarding the requested merger of both companies."
European antitrust officials, led by Joaquin Almunia, have hinted for weeks that they intended to block the deal unless NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse agree to divest one of their European futures exchanges. Together, the two markets, Liffe and Eurex, would control the majority of exchange-traded derivatives trading on the continent.
But NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse have argued that the European Commission's approach ignores the bigger market for derivatives that are traded over the counter. They have also said that within the world of exchange-traded derivatives, the market share of a combined Liffe-Eurex would be 19 percent, smaller than that of a primary competitor, the CME Group.
Neither company is willing to divest either Liffe or Eurex. Instead, they have proposed smaller remedies, including allowing competitors access to the Eurex trading system.

        
Europe Opens Broad Review of Deutsche Borse-NYSE Deal
        
NYSE and Deutsche Borse Offer New Deal Concessions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (96%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); MERGERS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); FUTURES (77%); APPROVALS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%) Deutsche Borse; European Commission; Joaquin Almunia; NYSE Euronext; Almunia, Joaquin; Francioni, Reto; Niederauer, Duncan L; Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Deutsche Borse AG; NYSE Euronext|NYX|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (90%); CME GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%) Deutsche Borse AG; European Commission; NYSE Euronext

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (90%); NYX (NYSE) (90%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%) NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (89%); DUNCAN L NIEDERAUER (88%); RETO FRANCIONI (79%) Almunia, Joaquin; Francioni, Reto; Niederauer, Duncan L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



440 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The 'Tax Gap'

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: About 16 percent of federal income taxes due have not been paid, and the enforcement mechanisms continue to be weakened, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
In keeping with its apparent policy of releasing important economic reports late on Friday afternoons in the hope that no one will notice them, the Obama administration published new estimates of the so-called tax gap on Jan. 6. They deserve more attention.
For many years, the Internal Revenue Service has been studying the tax gap, which is the difference between aggregate tax liabilities and revenue collected. The data just released are for the 2006 tax year and update the most recent previous data, which were for the 2001 tax year.
According to the study, in 2006 Americans owed $450 billion more in federal taxes than they paid, an increase of $105 billion over 2001. The I.R.S. estimates that the compliance rate declined slightly to 83.1 percent in 2006, from 83.7 percent in 2001. In other words, people voluntarily pay only about 84 percent of the taxes they owe.
The I.R.S. estimates that enforcement actions will eventually bring in some of the uncollected revenue. It says that $55 billion of the 2001 tax gap was subsequently collected and that $65 billion of the 2006 gap will be. Thus the net tax gap is a bit lower: $290 billion in 2001 and $385 billion in 2006. The ultimate compliance rate, therefore, is 86.3 percent for 2001 and 85.5 percent for 2006.

Noncompliance primarily takes the form of unreported income rather than taking unjustified deductions, exemptions and such. The bulk of unreported income is among unincorporated businesses, which can much more easily hide income from the I.R.S. than workers who primarily earn wages from which their employers withhold taxes.
Information reporting and withholding are the I.R.S.'s principal lines of defense against tax cheating. As the chart illustrates, noncompliance is lowest in areas where there is substantial reporting requirements and withholding. Almost all wages and salaries are reported and taxes withheld. 
There is more noncompliance in areas like pensions and investment income, where there is reporting but generally no withholding. Noncompliance rises as reporting requirements weaken for things like alimony and capital gains and rises sharply where reporting requirements are nonexistent, such as for proprietors' income, rents and royalties.
Effect of Information Reporting on Taxpayer Compliance
Clearly, therefore, one solution to the tax gap is to increase reporting and withholding requirements. However, previous efforts by Congress to do so have been met with huge political resistance. People don't like the intrusion into their privacy - and the diminution of their opportunities for tax evasion - and businesses don't like the cost or the alienation of their customers. 
In 1982, Congress briefly enacted a withholding requirement for interest income and the outcry was so loud that it was repealed almost immediately.
Conservatives tend to talk about noncompliance as if it were solely a function of tax rates. The higher tax rates are, the greater the incentive for tax evasion; lower tax rates and evasion will decline. Thus tax evasion is yet another excuse to cut taxes.
However, as the I.R.S. data show, noncompliance increased between 2001 and 2006, a period in which a substantial number of tax cuts were enacted. The top rate fell to 35 percent from 39.6 percent, the bottom rate fell to 10 percent from 15 percent and the rate on dividends fell to just 15 percent from a top rate of 39.6 percent. If the conservative model is correct, tax compliance should have increased, since the return to evasion fell substantially.
Of course, another factor in tax compliance is enforcement. Someone who thinks the odds of being caught are close to zero is going to be strongly tempted to cheat no matter how low tax rates are. 
Unfortunately, Republicans have been treating the I.R.S. like a political punching bag for years, cutting its personnel and restricting its ability to do its job. The number of I.R.S. employees fell to 84,711 in 2010 from 116,673 in 1992 despite an increase in the population of the United States of 53 million over that period.
Federal revenues are at a historically low level and are a key cause of the federal budget deficit. Sooner or later, taxes will have to be increased. It would be better to minimize that increase by ensuring that taxpayers pay what they owe. It's unfair to honest taxpayers and undermines tax morale when large numbers of people and businesses don't pay their taxes.

        
How Politics Came to Dominate Payroll Tax Debate
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'? Continued
        
Raising Taxes on the Rich: Not Whether, but How
        
The Republican Idea of Tax Reform
        
Misrepresentations, Regulations and Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (69%) Bruce Bartlett; Daily Economist; politics; tax code; tax cuts; taxes; Tax Evasion; Internal Revenue Service; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



441 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Obama Drops by the E.P.A.

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: "I do not buy the notion that we have to make a choice between having clean air and clean water and growing this economy in a robust way," the president tells agency employees. 

 BODY:
 President Obama, who has been both applauded and jeered for his record on environmental issues, paid a brief visit to the headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington on Tuesday to try to raise spirits at an agency that has been under siege for the past year.
 All the Republican presidential candidates and the House Republican majority have criticized the agency for what they cast as intrusive environmental regulations that cost jobs and harm the economy. Several of the candidates have vowed to do away with the E.P.A. or sharply trim its authority. House Republicans have passed a series of bills that would block or reverse E.P.A. measures to control air, water and coal mining pollution.
 Mr. Obama, in a nine-minute address to E.P.A. employees, said he was proud of his administration's actions to improve car and truck efficiency, reduce toxic emissions from power plants and clean up rivers and streams. He said the nation did not have to choose between jobs and a clean environment.
"I do not buy the notion that we have to make a choice between having clean air and clean water and growing this economy in a robust way," he said. "I think that is a false debate."

 Mr. Obama did not mention the two most controversial environmental actions he has undertaken - halting the E.P.A.'s efforts to tighten its smog standard and to to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that contribute to the warming of the planet.
His decision in September to reject the proposed smog rule stunned E.P.A. officials and infuriated environmental advocates. The greenhouse gas rules, which have not yet been issued, are widely opposed by business and utilities and are likely to provoke a major backlash when they are proposed later this year.
 Mr. Obama kept his message short and upbeat. "The main reason I'm here is simple," he said. "I just want to say, 'Thank you.'"
 He closed by saying, "You've got a president who is grateful for your work and will stand with you every inch of the way as you carry out your mission to make sure that we've got a cleaner world."

        
Taking Square Aim at Critics, E.P.A. Marks Its 40th
        
New Pollution Rules for Boilers and Incinerators
        
Federal Officials Say They'll Examine Fracking Practices
        
On Our Radar: House Republican Vows to Cut E.P.A. Budget
        
When Ozone Drops, Farm Workers Step Up the Pace

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); SMOG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); AIR POLLUTION (75%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); MINES & MINING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL MINING (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); RIVERS (53%); FARM LABOR (50%) Air Pollution; barack obama; emissions; Environmental Protection Agency; environmental regulation; Water Pollution; Obama, Barack; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Mines and Mining; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy; water quality

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%) Environmental Protection Agency; House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



442 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Pros and Cons for Romney in New Hampshire

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The five pluses and five minuses for Mitt Romney going into the New Hampshire primary. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney's presidential campaign here has been years in the making.
Now Mr. Romney, the former governor of the neighboring state of Massachusetts, is just hours away from finding out if his second courtship of New Hampshire's famously fickle voters will be reciprocated.
And more than that, the results from New Hampshire's primary will help determine if Mr. Romney finally becomes the face of the Republican Party as it attempts to prevent President Obama from winning a second term in the White House. Polls will close at 7 p.m. in most places and at 8 p.m. in a few.
Mr. Romney has maintained a huge lead here for months, but that support has slipped in recent days as his rivals began campaigning in earnest across the state. A tracking poll released on Monday showed him having lost 10 percentage points compared with one taken five days earlier.
But despite that trend downward, Mr. Romney still begins Primary Day with expectations working against him. If he doesn't win New Hampshire by a significant margin, donors and rivals are sure to question the depth of his support as he tries to move forward.
Here are a few of Mr. Romney's pluses and minuses to think about before returns start rolling in:
PLUSES:
1. Deep Roots. Mr. Romney has owned a summer home on the banks of Lake Winnipesaukee for years, and he lived in New Hampshire part-time as he prepared to run again. He spent plenty of time here in 2008 for his previous presidential run, and news about his work as governor in Massachusetts routinely bled over into New Hampshire. In a state where voters jealously guard their ability to know candidates personally, no other Republican hopeful can claim a relationship with voters that goes as deep.
2. Splintered Conservatives: In 2008, John McCain faced three conservative challengers in New Hampshire (one of them being Mr. Romney). Now, it is Mr. Romney who has been given the gift of an even more divided field of rivals. Polls on Monday showed Ron Paul, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum all clumped together, well behind Mr. Romney (with Mr. Paul leading that pack). That none has seriously broken out to challenge Mr. Romney is to his advantage.
3. The Resource Edge. In Iowa, Mr. Romney's campaign liked to brag about how little it had spent. But in New Hampshire and beyond, the financial edge for Mr. Romney is critical. His campaign has the money to blanket the airwaves with positive ads (leaving the negative attacks to a "super PAC" working on his behalf). And the money helps institutionalize an organization that his rivals can't match.
4. Anti-Obama Message. Because of his lead, Mr. Romney has the luxury of being able to focus most of his rhetoric on President Obama. That sells well in New Hampshire, a state that Mr. Obama won in 2008 but appears to have soured on him somewhat. In his official announcement speech in Stratham, N.H., last June, Mr. Romney declared that "Barack Obama has failed America." He hasn't strayed far from that message.
5. Strong Surrogates. The value of endorsements is often overstated. But Mr. Romney's cadre of high-level backers has been put to good use in New Hampshire over the last several days. Tim Pawlenty, his former rival, has been here. Chris Christie, the tough-talking governor of New Jersey, and John Sununu, the former New Hampshire governor, have both hammered Mr. Romney's rivals. Nikki Haley, the governor of South Carolina, and Kelly Ayotte, the New Hampshire senator, have appealed to voters. No other Republican candidate has anywhere near that lineup.
MINUSES:
1. A Downward Trend: It may be nothing more than the natural tightening that happens in the last 48 hours of any election (and especially in New Hampshire). But the perception that Mr. Romney is losing steam at the last moment could cost him support among voters here -- and in South Carolina, where he heads next. About 10 percent of potential voters said they were undecided on Monday. If they haven't decided to vote for the well-known Mr. Romney, it's hard to imagine them doing so on Tuesday.
2. Jobs and Bain. The Democrats have been doing it for months, but Mr. Romney's Republican rivals this weekend finally embraced the idea of attacking his record at Bain Capital. And they did so with gusto, accusing Bain of "looting" other companies, firing workers indiscriminately and adding to job losses. Mr. Romney's unfortunate comment that he liked "firing people" was taken out of context by his rivals, but contributed to his problems just hours before the voting begins.
3. The Past Catches Up. The familiarity that New Hampshire voters, in particular, have with Mr. Romney cuts both ways. It is harder for Mr. Romney to reinvent himself here since people know his record. Many here remember his tenure as governor and his Senate campaign against Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts. That has the potential to make the flip-flopper label a bit easier to stick.
4. Ron Paul. If there is one state motto that fits Mr. Paul's campaign it is New Hampshire's: Live Free or Die. And Mr. Paul's campaign appeals in particular to independent voters here, who are allowed to vote in the Republican primary. That robs Mr. Romney of a source of support that he might otherwise have gotten had Mr. Paul not been in the race. So far, polls suggest that Mr. Paul's support has not been able to rise above about 20 percent. But if that number increases on Tuesday, it probably comes out of Mr. Romney's column first.
5. The 1 Percent Problem: In 2012, Mr. Romney has not tapped into his fortune to run for president, perhaps aware of the dissonance that would have at a time of economic uncertainty and struggle. But he nonetheless is a very rich man asking for votes from people who have far, far less. That was crystallized on Sunday when he said he knew what it was like to worry about getting a "pink slip." The comment drew derision from rivals and Democrats and highlighted the wealth divide that he must still confront as he tries to connect with voters here and elsewhere. On Monday, he had a similar dust-up after saying that he liked "firing people," in a discussion about getting rid of a health insurance company or other service provider that he didn't think was serving him well. The quote was taken out of context by his rivals, but again, it highlighted his difference from average people, who are more likely to be the ones getting fired than doing the firing.

        
Does McCain's Endorsement Really Help Romney?
        
Perry Fades Into Background in Debate
        
Christie's Decision Leaves Republicans With Stark Choice
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
The Early Word: Giuliani Revives N.H. Campaign

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); TRENDS (69%) mitt romney; New Hampshire; primaries; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; Elections; From New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RON PAUL (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



443 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: With House Redistricting Looming, 2 California Republicans Retire

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Two Republicans in California's Congressional delegation say they will step down, as three more mull their options after redistricting. 

 BODY:
Days after Representative Elton Gallegly announced his retirement from Congress, another veteran California Republican in the House said he, too, planned to forgo a bid for re-election.
Representative Wally Herger, 66, the second-ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, announced Tuesday that he would not seek a 14th term, then endorsed a former state lawmaker to succeed him in representing Northern California's Second District.
Mr. Herger, a rancher and businessman, began his 35-year political career on a local school board in 1976. He served six years in the California Assembly until he won election to the House in 1986. 
On Tuesday, he said the experience was a privilege that "came with many sacrifices, the foremost of which was all the time spent away from my family and my home here in Northern California. I want to focus on my family and enjoy spending time with my grandchildren before they grow up."
On Saturday, Mr. Gallegly, 67, said he would retire after more than 25 years in office, avoiding a primary against Representative Howard P. McKeon, the powerful Republican chairman of the Armed Services Committee, for a redrawn Congressional District in the Los Angeles area.
Unlike Mr. Gallegly, Mr. Herger was not endangered by redistricting changes that pitted incumbent Republicans in competitive races against their colleagues.He emerged with a safe district that went to John McCain in the 2008 presidential election, a House Republican aide with knowledge of the district said.
In a statement, Mr. Herger endorsed Doug LaMalfa, a 51-year-old rancher and state senator whose district overlaps his own. Dave Gilliard, a campaign consultant who worked for Mr. Herger, will direct Mr. LaMalfa's campaign.
"My most important concern when making the decision to retire from Congress was that the north state continue to be represented by a conservative who fully understands, and appreciates, our agricultural and natural resources-based economy and who has the proven ability to represent such a vast and unique area, " Mr. Herger said of his decision to support Mr. Malfa.
Mr. Gallegly and Mr. Herger became California's first two House Republicans to announce that they would not run again, but decisions loom.
Representative Jerry Lewis, 79, a former chairman of the Appropriations Committee, has been mulling which district he will run in after California's redistricting panel split up his Inland Empire district east of Los Angeles. The politics blog Flash Report reported on Tuesday that Mr. Lewiswas calling supporters to tell them that he was retiring at the end of this term after 34 years in office.
Mr. Lewis's spokesman, Jim Specht, said a decision from Mr. Lewis could come soon and added, "But he has not made any statements to supporters or staff about his plans."
Mr. Lewis's departure would open a route to re-election for another Republican, most likely Representative Gary Miller, to the open seat, the House Republican aide said. Mr. Miller is facing an uphill primary battle against Representative Ed Royce, also a Republican, for an Orange County district.
Representative David Dreier, chairman of the Rules Committee, has not said whether he will run again after the redistricting panel left him without a district.
Mr. Herger and Mr. Gallegly join a growing group of Republicans retiring at the end of the year. In recent weeks, Representatives Geoff Davis of Kentucky and Steve Austria of Ohio have decided to step down.

        
Illinois Democrat to Step Down in 2013
        
Contours of 2012 Campaign Emerge
        
Bachmann's Next Decision: Whether to Run for Re-election
        
For Payroll Tax Cut, Next Step Is Obama's Signature
        
Bipartisan Push for Vast Transportation Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) 2012 elections; Ashley Southall; California House delegation; House; The Caucus

PERSON: ELTON GALLEGLY (90%); JERRY LEWIS (79%); DOUG LAMALFA (79%); BUCK MCKEON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



444 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Mitt Romney Focuses on Obama During Victory Speech

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney declared on Tuesday night that his campaign had "made history" in New Hampshire and vowed to continue on to South Carolina as he pursues be his party's nomination. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney declared on Tuesday night that his campaign had "made history" in New Hampshire and vowed to continue on to South Carolina as he pursues be his party's nomination to take on President Obama in the fall. 
"Tonight we celebrate. Tomorrow we go back to work," Mr. Romney said to an ecstatic crowd at Southern New Hampshire University in Hooksett, New Hampshire.
Mr. Romney barely mentioned the Republican rivals that he bested, though he noted that in recent days "desperate Republicans" have sought to "join forces" with Mr. Obama in an assault on free enterprise in America.
"This is such a mistake for our party and for our nation," he said, adding that America already has a politician -- Mr. Obama -- who practices what he called the "politics of envy."
Mr. Romney spent most of his time reprising his case against Mr. Obama, saying that the upcoming general election campaign will be critical and called it "about saving the soul of America."
In the brief speech, which started around 8:30 p.m. Eastern and lasted about 10 minutes, Mr. Romney assailed the economic policies that he said are helping to destroy the country.
"This president takes his inspirations from the capitals of Europe," Mr. Romney said. "This president puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



445 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Profiles of the Supporters in New Hampshire

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Breaking down key support for Mitt Romney, Representative Ron Paul and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., based on exit poll data. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney: Electable and Popular With Strong Conservatives
Based on the exit polls, the division of support among certain groups that split between Mr. Romney and Rick Santorum is quite telling. Mr. Romney fared just as well as Mr. Santorum among strong conservatives and born-again Christians. Mr. Romney won the most votes of New Hampshire's Tea Party supporters, with Mr. Paul in second place. Mr. Paul also won among New Hampshire voters seeking a "true conservative."
David Jones, one of our analysts, notes that the proportion of strong conservatives and abortion issue voters, for example, were only about half the size in New Hampshire as they were in Iowa. But even if the demographics of both states had been the same, the exit poll suggests that Mr. Santorum would still have struggled in New Hampshire.
A majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him today. Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate -- it was cited more than any other quality -- and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. In contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney. (Both states have unemployment rates that are lower than the national average.)
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) only accounted for about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they made up a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who made up their minds early.
Ron Paul: Young and Deficit-Minded
Even though Mr. Paul appears to have gained a strong showing in the New Hampshire primary, according to exit poll results and projections, he failed to win enough support from several key groups to cut deeply into Mr. Romney's lead.
In New Hampshire, Mr. Paul's supporters were younger: half of those under age 29 backed him and roughly 3 in 10 from ages 30 to 44 voted for him. Among those who said they were socially moderate or liberal, Mr. Paul drew about 3 in 10 voters.
Independents split their vote, with Mr. Paul getting the nod from about 3 in 10 independents, nearly the same as Mr. Romney and Jon Huntsman, who got about 2 in 10. He drew about 1 in 5 fiscal conservatives.
About three in five voters said cutting the budget, even if it limits job growth, should be a higher priority for the next president. Mr. Paul, with his proposed trillion-dollar budget cut proposal, attracted almost 3 in 10 of these deficit hawks, about equal to Mitt Romney's draw.
But the economy as an issue dwarfed the deficit, and more of those economy-focused voters supported Mr. Romney. About a quarter of voters who are very worried about the future of the nation's economy supported him, but more supported Mr. Romney. About 3 in 10 of those who said they were falling behind financially supported Mr. Paul, about the same number that supported Mr. Romney.

Jon M. Huntsman Jr: Moderates and Liberals
Mr. Huntsman offered himself as a conservative alternative to Mitt Romney, but the bulk of his support on Tuesday came from moderate and liberal voters, those satisfied with the Obama administration, and those opposed to the Tea Party movement.
After campaigning in New Hampshire for months, Mr. Huntsman had a late-breaking surge of support to propel him into the top three. But the surge came too late to overtake Mr. Romney, who won the primary.
Roughly 6 in 10 of Mr. Huntsman's voters said they had decided whom to support in the few days leading up to the election. Just over one-third of Ron Paul's and Mr. Romney's supporters said the same.
Mr. Huntsman, who served as ambassador to China during the first half of President Obama's term, toiled near the bottom of national polls and had little money to communicate with voters through much of the year.
Mr. Huntsman's voters were the least likely to say they had been contacted by their candidate's campaign. A 53 percent majority of Huntsman supporters say they were never contacted by his campaign, compared with 42 percent of Mr. Paul's supporters and 38 percent of Mr. Romney's.
Over all, Mr. Huntsman performed best among groups of voters who either support the Obama administration or share some of its views. His likely second- or third-place finish results from the relatively small numbers of these types of voters in the primary electorate.
Mr. Huntsman's strongest showing, perhaps not surprisingly, was among voters with warmer-than-average (for the primary electorate) views of President Obama and his administration. Among voters who reported being satisfied with the Obama administration, roughly 4 in 10 supported Mr. Huntsman. In contrast, he received fewer than 1 in 10 votes from those who described themselves as "angry" with the administration.
Unfortunately for Mr. Huntsman, the latter outnumbered the former by three to one. Mr. Huntsman was also a clear favorite among voters who oppose the Tea Party movement. Among those opposing the Tea Party, over 40 percent voted for Mr. Huntsman, while only a quarter supported Mr. Romney, the closest candidate among that category of voters.
Here again, however, those voters made up a small proportion of the electorate - fewer than one-fifth.
More Live Coverage of the New Hampshire Primary  

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); ABORTION (55%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Voting and Voters; Republican Party; New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); RON PAUL (89%); JON HUNTSMAN (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



446 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: How Romney Won

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: A prevailing sense among New Hampshire primary voters that Mitt Romney is the candidate most likely to defeat President Obama helped lift him to victory. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- A prevailing sense among New Hampshire primary voters that Mitt Romney is the candidate most likely to defeat Barack Obama helped lift him to victory on Tuesday.
According to exit polls, a majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him Tuesday
Mr. Romney has been making that argument for months, and has focused most of his rhetorical fire at the president in the hopes of demonstrating how he will run against him. 
It appears that the argument worked.
 Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate - it was cited more than any other quality - and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. By contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) accounted for only about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they comprised a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago. 
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who had made up their minds early.

        
Romney's Lead in New Hampshire Slips in Poll
        
New Hampshire Primary Live Blog
        
Just Where Are Those Voters?
        
Pros and Cons for Romney in New Hampshire
        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); RELIGION (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%) mitt romney; New Hampshire primary; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); RON PAUL (51%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



447 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Rick Santorum's Anti-College Rant

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican candidate accuses President Obama of "hubris" and "snobbery" for pushing higher education. 

 BODY:
Hey, I get it: Republicans have to reject and condemn virtually everything President Obama proposes, no matter how noble, to satisfy their base. This is our political predicament.
Rick Santorum, however, has followed that logic out the window. In New Hampshire last week Santorum accused President Obama of "elitist snobbery" and "hubris" for suggesting that "under my administration, every child should go to college."
Who are you? Who are you to say that every child in America go I mean the hubris of this president to think that he knows what's best for you. I you know there is I have seven kids. Maybe they'll all go to college. But, if one of my kids wants to go and be an auto mechanic, good for him. That's a good-paying job - using your hands and using your mind. This is the kind of, the kind of snobbery that we see from those who think they know how to run our lives. Rise up America. Defend your own freedoms.
First, the facts: I can't find a single instance where the president has actually said that. The president has consistently framed the discussion as one of making high school graduates both college- and career-ready. And even when speaking about learning high school, he has often included both higher education and vocational training.
For instance, during a joint session of Congress in February 2009, the president said:
It will be the goal of this administration to ensure that every child has access to a complete and competitive education - from the day they are born to the day they begin a career.
He continued:
And so tonight, I ask every American to commit to at least one year or more of higher education or career training. This can be community college or a four-year school; vocational training or an apprenticeship.
A question, Rick: How does a person become an auto mechanic without either vocational training or an apprenticeship? Does he just spring forth from the womb knowing how to drop the transmission on a Dodge Durango? I didn't think so. Moving right along ...
The president has called for the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and challenged states to "develop standards and assessments that will help America's children rise to the challenge of graduating from high school prepared for college and the workplace."
The president has also unveiled plans to help more students graduate from community college, a main tenet of his education agenda, saying,
We know that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate degree are projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college experience. We will not fill those jobs or even keep those jobs here in America without the training offered by community colleges.
Now that we've established some facts, let's turn to the larger question: Is it a bad thing to want more students to be prepared for college, to have access to college and to in fact attend college? Of course not.
As The Washington Post pointed outin September, an Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development report released that month found that
America's global rank in college completion among young adults is slipping, according to a report released Tuesday, signaling that the higher education ambitions of other nations are progressing at a swifter pace.
The Post continued:
Instead of gaining ground, the United States has fallen from 12th to 16th in the share of adults age 25 to 34 holding degrees, according to the report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. It trails global leaders South Korea, Canada and Japan and is mired in the middle of the pack among developed nations.
The stagnant U.S. performance on this key international benchmark reflects at least two trends: the rapid expansion of college attendance in Asia and Europe, and the continuing emphasis on four-year degrees in the United States while other nations focus far more on one- and two-year professional credentials.
Sounds to me like the president's plan is designed to address this. But then again, I'm applying regular logic, not "I-hate-Obama, stick-my-fingers-in-my-ears, say 'la-la-la-la-la' " logic.
An even more disturbing finding in the O.E.C.D report is how poorly Americans perform in the job market without a college degree. Among Americans aged 18 to 64 whose highest level of education is "upper secondary and post-secondary non-tertiary" - the equivalent of high school and perhaps some vocational or community college training - the percentage of the employed is among the lowest of all O.E.C.D. countries. We rank 30th out of 34 countries, just above Greece, Hungary, Poland and Turkey.
Oh, the hubris and elitist snobbery of wanting a more educated, more highly employed work force.

        
Not Set in Granite
        
In Praise of Iowa
        
Bringing Home the Bacon
        
The Anti-Entitlement Strategy
        
More Opinions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION LAW (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) college education; President Obama; Rick Santorum; the presidential election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Santorum, Rick; Colleges and Universities; Education; Education (K-12); Presidential Election of 2012; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Republican Party; Washington Post; New Hampshire

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Republican Party; Washington Post

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



448 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 11365 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Primary Live Blog

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall. 
The Times's political unit is still on the ground in the Granite State to provide live updates and analysis. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard | Download the Election 2012 iPhone AppTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults 10:52 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Mitt Romney has been declared the winner, the candidates have given their speeches and are now on their way to South Carolina, and we are, too. Check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
- 
10:49 P.M. | What the New Hampshire Exit Polls Say About S.C.
With the primary season moving south in the coming weeks, what do the New Hampshire exit polls suggest about each candidate's potential strengths and weaknesses in South Carolina?
Before the outcome of tonight's primary, surveys showed that the three top candidates in South Carolina were Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum. Although Ron Paul and Jon Huntsman finished in the top three in New Hampshire, the exit polls provide good reason to think they will not repeat those performances in South Carolina.
Both Mr. Paul and Mr. Huntsman did best among New Hampshire voters describing themselves as liberal or moderate, and worst among voters describing themselves as conservatives. (But, of the 1 in 10 voters whose most important quality was choosing a "true conservative," Mr. Paul was selected by about 42 percent.)
Seven of 10 voters in the 2008 South Carolina Republican primary identified themselves as conservative, a much greater portion than voters in New Hampshire - about half - this year.
Can either Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum emerge in South Carolina as the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney? The New Hampshire exit polls point to each candidate's possible strengths in this area. Mr. Gingrich outperformed Mr. Santorum among fiscal conservatives in New Hampshire and among those primarily concerned with the budget deficit, though both candidates lost to Romney among both these groups. On the other hand, Mr. Santorum outperformed Gingrich among social conservatives and among those primarily concerned with abortion. While Romney beat both of these candidates among social conservatives, he did not beat Mr. Santorum among abortion issue voters. Presumably, these voters will become more important as the primary moves to South Carolina.
 In terms of candidate qualities, the New Hampshire exit poll shows that aside from Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich does the second best of any candidate among voters whose most important candidate quality is the ability to beat President Obama. Mr. Santorum's biggest advantage comes from voters who say the most important candidate quality is being a true conservative-a group he actually won in New Hampshire.
 Overall, the exit poll results suggest that Mr. Santorum's path to a strong showing in South Carolina will rest largely on his continued emphasis on socially conservative issues like abortion and possibly also gay marriage (although no exit poll questions have asked about this). Mr. Gingrich's base of support is a bit more broad than that of Mr. Santorum, but overlaps to a larger degree with Mr. Romney's strengths. This may explain, in part, why Mr. Gingrich has chosen a more aggressive stance towards Romney, while Mr. Santorum has been content to stay above the fray.
- 
10:26 P.M. | Santorum and Gingrich Will Fight On
MANCHESTER, N.H. - To the majestic chords of "To The Skies," Mr. Santorum entered a small hotel ballroom here, not to concede defeat in the New Hampshire primary but to say that he had exceeded expectations.
At 9:54 p.m. Tuesday, he walked on stage with his wife and some of his children and an entourage of about a dozen men in suits as he held a slim lead for fourth place.
"We are going to go on to South Carolina," he declared, to hoots and hollers from the crowd of about 100 people. He said he would be the "true conservative" in the race.
Because he started here barely registering in the polls, he said that depending on which polls were used as a baseline, he had come in at either 10 times, 5 times or 3 times where he started.
Mr. Santorum said that his grandfather, who emigrated to Pennsylvania to work in the coal mines, "was not deterred by temporary setbacks," and suggested that he had that same determination.
He said that he competed in New Hampshire because "we wanted to respect the process" and campaign in every state, and that he appreciated the opportunity to talk about faith and family.
"We didn't spend a lot of money, but we put our message out there," he said. "We came where the campaign was and delivered a message not just for New Hampshire but for America."
Partway through his eight-minute appearance, Mr. Santorum referred to Mitt Romney, not by name, but as someone who had spent a lot of time and money in the state. Then he congratulated him, by name, for winning.
"He worked hard in this state and invested in this state," Mr. Santorum said. He said he spoke with Mr. Romney earlier and said he was looking forward to engaging on the issues.
Mr. Gingrich, speaking at the same time as Mr. Santorum, said he would continue on to South Carolina and Florida, which he called "the next two great contests" in the presidential campaign.
"As we get to South Carolina, as the choice becomes clear," Mr. Gingrich said, "I believe we can reach out and we can create a majority that will shock the country and a majority that will continue to put us on the right track."
Mr. Gingrich added: "It is doable. It is a daunting challenge. But consider the alternative."
- 
9:59 P.M. | Video: Huntsman Vows to Continue to S.C.
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mr. Huntsman, addressing a crowd of supporters in Manchester about 9:30 p.m., quickly made it clear that he was continuing on to South Carolina despite his third-place finish. "I'd say third place is a ticket to ride," he said before launching into a version of the stump speech he has given dozens of times around the state.
"We are the most blue-sky, problem-solving, can-do people on earth and we're going to get out there and we're going to address this trust deficit," he said. "All we need is a little bit of leadership and a plan."
In recent days, Mr. Huntsman has stressed that he has spent time building support in South Carolina and has the backing of Henry McMaster, the state's attorney general, among others. He has scheduled campaign events in North Charleston and Columbia for Wednesday.
- 
9:56 P.M. | Paul's Speech
MANCHESTER, N.H. - To the music of the reliable non-winners theme "Won't Back Down," Ron Paul declared his second-place finish "a victory for the cause of liberty tonight." 
Shortly after Mr. Romney ended his victory speech, Mr. Paul delivered a trademark speech about overspending and big government, along with swipes at the media, which Mr. Paul said had rightly described his campaign as "dangerous."
"That's one thing they are telling the truth - we are dangerous to the status quo," Mr. Paul said.
The enthusiastic crowd before him at a banquet hall in Manchester, dominated by the jeans-clad young volunteers and voters who have provided the energy for his presidential campaign, broke into lusty boos at every mention of "fiat money" or "policing the world," hallmarks of the iconoclastic but energetic political views that have made Mr. Paul a force for other Republicans to contend with.
"Liberty has to be remphasized," Mr. Paul said. "Over the last hundred years, we've taken liberty and chopped it up."
- 
9:52 P.M. | Crowd Still Waiting for Santorum
MANCHESTER, N.H. - While Rick Santorum was locked in a tight race for fourth place with Newt Gingrich in the New Hampshire primary, reporters and other media types appeared to outnumber Santorum supporters at his party headquarters here at a small, unadorned hotel ballroom.
Many in the crowd of fewer than 100 were volunteers for his campaign or related to someone who was. They stood watching the primary unfold silently on a large screen on the stage while '60s and '70s pop music thrummed in the room. Long after Mitt Romney claimed victory, the crowd was still waiting for Mr. Santorum to appear.
Richard Cote, 48, a bagger at a local supermarket, said he came to the party because he had seen the numbers earlier on television and felt sorry for Mr. Santorum.
"I thought he'd win," Mr. Cote said. "I feel bad."
Kevin Moore, 34, a volunteer for Mr. Santorum who said he is basically a full-time volunteer for political campaigns, said he was disappointed tonight. "I wish he'd gotten more traction," he said.
Susan Stys, 55, a nurse, said that after she voted for Mr. Santorum, she found herself standing next to him when he appeared at the Radisson Hotel downtown for radio interviews. She said she came because she was "all about the process" and liked the low-key quality of the evening gathering.
"I'm just impressed, especially by the normalcy of everyone here," she said. Many were wearing casual, cold-weather clothes - including a sweater vest or two - with suits in the minority.
Around 9:35, an aide said Mr. Santorum was waiting for the numbers to "solidify" and perhaps "break out," and then the candidate would address the crowd.
- 
9:45 P.M. | Huntsman Claims to Be 'in the Hunt'
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. hailed his third-place showing in New Hampshire, declaring that his campaign is "in the hunt" for the Republican nomination for president.
"I'd say third place is a ticket to ride, ladies and gentlemen," Mr. Huntsman told an enthusiastic crowd. "Hello, South Carolina!"
Mr. Huntsman's campaign was hoping that a late surge in the state would push him into second place behind Mitt Romney. That didn't happen.
But Mr. Huntsman had repeatedly declared that he simply needed to beat "market expectations," without ever defining what those expectations were.
In his remarks Tuesday night, Mr. Huntsman decried two deficits in the country: an economic deficit represented by $15 trillion in debt and a trust deficit, in which Americans no longer have faith in their institutions.
"We are too good as people to be in this hole," Mr. Huntsman declared.
- 
9:28 P.M. | Challenges Await Romney in South Carolina
For a deeper look into the challenges awaiting Mitt Romney in South Carolina, check out Jim Rutenberg's news analysis.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Paul Claims Second Place, Happily 
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Ron Paul declared himself satisfied with his second-place showing in the New Hampshire primary, calling it "a victory for the cause of liberty tonight."
Mr. Paul, a congressman from Texas, said he called to congratulate Mitt Romney on his win in the state. But he said that he will continue to wage the "intellectual revolution" that he has started
"There is no way they are going to stop the momentum that we have started," Mr. Paul told a raucous crowd shortly after Mr. Romney gave his own speech.
Mr. Paul bragged about getting the political system to talk about "real cuts" in spending, monetary policy and the Federal Reserve.
He said concerns about the future of the dollar "will remain a dominant issue" in future conversations about politics no matter what happens in this presidential campaign.
"There's no way they are going to put it to bed," he said.
- 
9:09 P.M. | Santorum: On to South Carolina
MANCHESTER, N.H. - After his disappointing showing Tuesday in the New Hampshire primary, Rick Santorum is banking on South Carolina to regain the momentum he had a week ago, when he nearly won the Iowa caucuses.
Mr. Santorum did not spend any money on television advertising in New Hampshire. His campaign figured that Mitt Romney had such a wide lead here that even if Mr. Santorum gained a few percentage points, aides said, it would not matter.
The Santorum campaign has raised $3 million since Iowa and is already pumping $1.5 million of it into television ads in South Carolina. The ads began running Tuesday.
John Braebender, a top adviser and media strategist for Mr. Santorum, said the moderate voters of New Hampshire were not a natural constituency for Mr. Santorum. But, he said, the campaign decided to compete here because doing so offered priceless national media exposure without draining scarce resources.
"If we had just gone to South Carolina, we would have disappeared from the national radar and our fund-raising would have gone downhill," Mr. Braebender said.
The campaign also thought that if Mr. Santorum did not compete here, his potential voters would have gone to Newt Gingrich, whom the Santorum campaign sees as its main competition as the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Santorum stayed on his conservative message here, which Mr. Braebender said would make it easier for him to continue that approach in South Carolina. Others, including Mr. Romney and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., made explicit appeals to the moderates in New Hampshire. It will be hard for them to do an about-face to appeal to the conservative voters in South Carolina, he said.
The Santorum campaign has a bigger campaign presence in South Carolina than it had here and has redeployed its forces from here and Iowa. It is also starting to organize county chairmen in Florida.
- 
9:03 P.M. | Video: Romney's Speech
- 
8:59 P.M. | Perry Vows to Stay In
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Despite finishing near the very bottom in New Hampshire on Tuesday night, Rick Perry vowed to continue on in the Republican presidential contest as the party searches for what he called a "conservative alternative" to Mitt Romney.
"I believe being the only non-establishment outsider in the race, the proven fiscal and social conservative and proven job creator will win the day in South Carolina," Mr. Perry said in a statement from that state.
"I have a head start here, and it's friendly territory for a Texas governor and veteran with solid outsider credentials, the nation's best record of job creation, and solid fiscal, social and Tea Party conservatism," he said.
Mr. Perry has spent several days in South Carolina after finishing fifth in Iowa's caucuses. He suspended his campaign after the Iowa results but said a day later that he would stay in the race.
In the last several days, Mr. Perry has been the most aggressive of all the candidates in attacking Mr. Romney's leadership at Bain Capital, an investment firm that Mr. Romney founded in the 1980s.
In a particularly harsh attack on Tuesday, Mr. Perry compared Mr. Romney's firm to "vultures" that tear companies apart, fire people and leave the "skeleton" behind.
- 
8:54 P.M. | How Romney Won
MANCHESTER, N.H. - A prevailing sense among New Hampshire primary voters that Mitt Romney is the candidate most likely to defeat Barack Obama helped lift him to victory today.
According to exit polls, a majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him today.
Mr. Romney has been making that argument for months, and has focused most of his rhetorical fire at the president in the hopes of demonstrating how he will run against him. 
It appears that the argument worked.
 Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate - it was cited more than any other quality - and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. By contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) accounted for only about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they comprised a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago. 
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who had made up their minds early.
- 
8:53 P.M. | Huntsman's Support From Moderates and Liberals
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. offered himself as a conservative alternative to Mitt Romney, but the bulk of his support on Tuesday came from moderate and liberal voters, those satisfied with the Obama administration, and those opposed to the Tea Party movement.
After campaigning in New Hampshire for months, Mr. Huntsman had a late-breaking surge of support to propel him into the top three. But the surge came too late to overtake Mr. Romney, who won the primary.
Roughly 6 in 10 of Mr. Huntsman's voters said they had decided whom to support in the few days leading up to the election. Just over one-third of Ron Paul's and Mr. Romney's supporters said the same.
Mr. Huntsman, who served as ambassador to China during the first half of President Obama's term, toiled near the bottom of national polls and had little money to communicate with voters through much of last year.
Mr. Huntsman's voters were the least likely to say they had been contacted by their candidate's campaign. A 53 percent majority of Huntsman supporters say they were never contacted by his campaign, compared with 42 percent of Mr. Paul's supporters and 38 percent of Mr. Romney's.
Over all, Mr. Huntsman performed best among groups of voters who either support the Obama administration or share some of its views. His likely second- or third-place finish results from the relatively small numbers of these types of voters in the primary electorate.
Mr. Huntsman's strongest showing, perhaps not surprisingly, was among voters with warmer-than-average (for the primary electorate) views of President Obama and his administration. Among voters who reported being satisfied with the Obama administration, roughly 4 in 10 supported Mr. Huntsman. In contrast, he received fewer than 1 in 10 votes from those who described themselves as "angry" with the administration.
Unfortunately for Mr. Huntsman, the latter outnumbered the former by three to one. Mr. Huntsman was also a clear favorite among voters who oppose the Tea Party movement. Among those opposing the Tea Party, over 40 percent voted for Mr. Huntsman, while only a quarter supported Mr. Romney, the closest candidate among that category of voters.
Here again, however, those voters made up a small proportion of the electorate - fewer than one-fifth.
- 
8:49 P.M. | Paul's Supporters 
Even though Mr. Paul appears to have gained a strong showing in the New Hampshire primary, according to exit poll results and projections, he failed to win enough support from several key groups to cut deeply into Mr. Romney's lead.
In New Hampshire, Mr. Paul's supporters were younger: half of those under age 29 backed him and roughly 3 in 10 from ages 30 to 44 voted for him. Among those who said they were socially moderate or liberal, Mr. Paul drew about 3 in 10 voters.
Independents split their vote, with Mr. Paul getting the nod from about 3 in 10 independents, nearly the same as Mr. Romney and Jon Huntsman, who got about 2 in 10. He drew about 1 in 5 fiscal conservatives.
About three in five voters said cutting the budget, even if it limits job growth, should be a higher priority for the next president. Mr. Paul, with his proposed trillion-dollar budget cut proposal, attracted almost 3 in 10 of these deficit hawks, about equal to Mitt Romney's draw.
 But the economy as an issue dwarfed the deficit, and more of those economy-focused voters supported Mr. Romney. About a quarter of voters who said they were very worried about the future of the nation's economy supported him, but more supported Mr. Romney. About 3 in 10n of those who said they were falling behind financially supported Mr. Paul, about the same number that supported Mr. Romney. 
- 
8:44 P.M. | Romney Speaks
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney declared on Tuesday night that his campaign had "made history" in New Hampshire and vowed to continue on to South Carolina as he pursues his party's nomination to take on President Obama in the fall.
"Tonight we celebrate. Tomorrow we go back to work," Mr. Romney said to an ecstatic crowd at Southern New Hampshire University in Hooksett.
Mr. Romney barely mentioned the Republican rivals whom he bested, though he said that in recent days, "desperate Republicans" have sought to "join forces" with Mr. Obama in an assault on free enterprise in America.
"This is such a mistake for our party and for our nation," he said, adding that America already has a politician - Mr. Obama - who practices what he called the "politics of envy."
Mr. Romney spent most of his time reprising his case against Mr. Obama, saying that the upcoming general election campaign will be critical and "about saving the soul of America."
In the brief speech, which started around 8:30 p.m. Eastern and lasted about 10 minutes, Mr. Romney assailed the economic policies that he said were helping to destroy the country.
"This president takes his inspirations from the capitals of Europe," Mr. Romney said. "This president puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people."
- 
8:39 P.M. | Romney: 'Tonight We Made History'
HOOKSETT, N.H. - "Tonight we made history," Mitt Romney said at his victory celebration, offering a huge grin. (Before Mr. Romney came out, his ebullient aides had been rushing around the hot dining center at Southern New Hampshire University here making the same point - that in winning Iowa and now New Hampshire, Mr. Romney had achieved a historic feat).
- 
8:34 P.M. | Exit Polls: Romney Most Electable 
A majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him today. Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate - it was cited more than any other quality - and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. In contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney. (Both states have unemployment rates that are lower than the national average.)
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) only accounted for about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they made up a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
8:33 P.M. | Romney Finishes Strong With Conservatives
From the exit polls, the divide of support among certain groups that split between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum is quite telling. Mr. Romney fared just as well as Mr. Santorum among strong conservatives and born-again Christians. Mr. Romney won the most votes of New Hampshire's Tea Party supporters-with Mr. Paul in second place. Mr. Paul also won among New Hampshire voters seeking a "true conservative."
David Jones, one of our analysts, notes that the proportion of strong conservatives and abortion issue voters, for example, were only about half the size in New Hampshire as they were in Iowa. But even if the demographics of both states had been the same, the exit poll suggests Mr. Santorum would still have struggled in New Hampshire.
- 
8:28 P.M. | A Full Look Into Tonight's Results
As Mitt Romney takes the stage to make his victory speech, check out Jeff Zeleny's reporting on tonight's results.
- 
8:15 P.M. | Tight Race for Second Place
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. and Ron Paul are vying for second place in New Hampshire, according to exit polls of voters Tuesday night.
The exact order of the candidates in the primary is not yet certain, since much of the vote has yet to be counted.
But Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Paul appeared to be well ahead of the other rivals in the contest.
- 
8:09 P.M. | A Redemption for Romney
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney got 75,546 votes in the 2008 New Hampshire primary.
He appears to have done much better this time around.
In 2008, he got about 32 percent of the vote, enough to place him comfortably in second place, well ahead of Mike Huckabee's 26,859 votes (11 percent) and Rudolph W. Giuliani's 20,439 (8.6 percent).
But he was unable to stop a surging Senator John McCain, who convinced 88,571 New Hampshire residents to vote for him, giving him 37 percent of the vote and first place.
Upon being declared the victor, Mr. McCain said: 
"My friends, I'm past the age when I can claim the name 'kid,' no matter what adjective precedes it. But tonight, we sure showed 'em what a comeback looks like. When the pundits declared us finished, I told 'em, 'I'm going to New Hampshire, where the voters don't let you make their decision for them.' "
Mr. Romney, in a brief concession speech that night, vowed to go "on to Michigan and South Carolina and Florida and Nevada and states after that," adding, "I'll fight to be back here in November, in those states and in others."
- 
8:00 P.M. | Mitt Romney Wins New Hampshire Primary
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall.
The New York Times and other news organizations declared Mr. Romney the winner in the race just moments after the polls closed at 8 p.m. Eastern time Tuesday, based on exit polls and early returns. The margin of his victory and the order of those behind him remain uncertain until more votes are counted.
Mr. Romney barely won Iowa's caucuses a week ago, besting Rick Santorum by a mere eight votes out of more than 100,000 cast.
Mr. Romney's second White House bid had been premised from the beginning on the idea that he could win in New Hampshire, a state he has all but adopted as his own in the years since Senator John McCain dashed his hopes here in the previous Republican primary.
Announcing his candidacy at a family farm in Stratham, N.H., last summer, Mr. Romney praised the state's voters for being the ones who kick off the political process.
"Every four years you decide who will give that State of the Union address, who will set the course of the country, who will be commander in chief," Mr. Romney said that day.
Mr. Romney has led the field here for months, and in recent weeks seemed out of reach for his rivals, who trailed by double digits. But the contest here turned especially ugly in the last few days as several of his rivals attacked Mr. Romney's stewardship of an investment firm he founded.
Those attacks had seemed to chip away at Mr. Romney's lead after they were delivered to a nationwide television audience during an NBC "Meet the Press" debate on Sunday morning.
But polls released Tuesday morning suggested that Mr. Romney remained well ahead of the rest of the field as the state's voters began arriving at their polling locations.
Anticipating a victory by Mr. Romney here, his rivals have vowed to try to stop him in South Carolina, a state where evangelical voters and conservatives tend to have more sway than they do in New Hampshire.
But Mr. Romney's campaign advisers have expressed confidence in robust operations in South Carolina and other states. They have said they are ready for the attacks in future contests. And they have argued that they are prepared for a long fight to collect the needed delegates to clinch the nomination.
- 
7:46 P.M. | The Candidates' Final Push, in Pictures
The candidates made their last appearances, some only for the benefit of media organizations, in New Hampshire on primary night.
- 
7:34 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Preparations 
- 
7:20 P.M. | Our Primary Is Better Than Yours, Says South Carolina 
GREENVILLE, S.C. - Primary? What primary?
While the political universe revolved around the voting in New Hampshire today, there were people in at least one state - yes, this one - who seemed distracted by other (more important, they would say) concerns.
First of all, there is their very own South Carolina primary coming up in just 11 days, and what better time for voters to take a quick breather before the marathon glad-handing begins in earnest? Although Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has been campaigning all week and kept himself especially busy today, none of the other candidates are in town. They arrive en masse on Wednesday.
There's also this cultural reality: people are still recovering from the big contest of Monday night, when two football titans of the South - Louisiana State University and the University of Alabama - took to the field in New Orleans. If anything is the talk of this town, it's how Alabama's defense didn't allow L.S.U. to score even once. Not even a field goal! Did you see that game? Seems like everybody here did. Your correspondent, being a native of Louisiana, appreciated the enthusiasm, if not the outcome. (Geaux Tigers!) 
But cutting back to politics, on Wednesday, the Republican candidates will descend on the state. Newt Gingrich will be in Spartanburg and Rock Hill. Representative Ron Paul of Texas will be in West Columbia. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah, will be in Columbia. Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, will also be in Columbia. Mr. Perry, who is already here, will make five stops in four towns.
South Carolina, this will be your moment! 
Excited?
"Sort of," said Chris Isham, a 25-year-old photographer and likely Republican primary voter. "Burnout happens quickly." 
Mr. Isham's friend Aaron Greene, 31, said he had watched one debate before the Iowa caucuses, was undecided about whom to support, and was already a bit weary.
"I'm tired of it and we're just getting started," he said. "That's kind of why I'm not so excited, because I know it's a long haul."
Mr. Greene expressed concern about how attack-oriented the last couple of weeks have been for the Republican contenders. He is not looking forward to seeing more of that. 
"I hope that the battle for the primary doesn't destroy our candidate for the big game against Obama," he said.
In any group of friends, there's usually one person who qualifies as "the political one" - the person who likes the drama of it, and closely follows the news. Among these friends, that person is Zach Franzen, 33, an artist.
"I'm probably the most interested person in politics that I know, and even I am disinterested in the race at this point," said Mr. Franzen, a Republican who lives in Greenville. "It seems that Mitt Romney has it all tied up at this point in New Hampshire. And I think the Iowa stuff did get pretty ugly." 
He continued: "The people here are very conservative and politics is really a blood sport, but this election, it seems that Romney is running for the general. And I think people aren't excited about that. I get the feeling that he is trying to bypass the people who are most avidly political in South Carolina because he thinks it will hurt him."
A quick check of the campaign schedule shows that Mr. Romney will have a lot of time in the state to either prove or disprove that notion over the next week and a half.
In the meantime, campaign workers have been busy behind the scenes getting things ready for what they consider the Truly Important Primary. 
"Most people don't care much about what comes out of New Hampshire," said Kerry Wood, the South Carolina state director of Rick Santorum's campaign. "Most Southerners are not too connected to what comes out of the Northeast region. We're not going to be steered or swayed by anywhere else."
- 
7:13 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Support for Paul in Manchester
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Outside the polling place at Ward 3, Ron Paul was the only candidate with any supporters present. Voters there seemed to share the candidate's politics.
"I considered Romney, only because I thought he had a better chance in the general election," said Rob Fremeau, a 31-year-old Republican who only recently solidified his support for Ron Paul. "He's got some momentum. He can make good numbers here; he did well in Iowa. Maybe we can push this thing a little further down the line."
Jeff Reno, 40, a martial arts instructor, said: "He applies the same principles to his economic policies to the litigation for morality that we have in this country. He doesn't support or advocate abortion in his own life. He realizes that it's not his position to push that view onto everyone else. That coincides more with my beliefs."
Paul Boudreau, 59, an independent customer service agent, said he appreciated Mr. Paul's unwillingness to "play politics" like the other candidates, specifically Mitt Romney. "I know he's the favorite," said Mr. Boudreau, "I don't know why."
- 
7:02 P.M. | Viewing Romney Through the Prism of History
Since World War II, just 24 men (yes, all men) have been nominated for president by one of the two major parties. And every time a new choice emerges, political observers look for parallels from recent history.
Given Mitt Romney's advantages in the 2012 Republican race, that process started long before he secures the nomination. Some of the comparisons are flattering; others are not.
Disaffected conservatives liken Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, to the 1948 Republican nominee, Thomas Dewey, another well-to-do Northeastern state executive (New York) who blew a winnable race against a vulnerable incumbent, President Harry S. Truman.
Others see Mr. Romney as a latter-day George H.W. Bush, who carried the Republican banner in 1988 after serving as Ronald Reagan's vice president. Both had prominent Republican political fathers (Gov. George Romney of Michigan and Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut), and have the bearing of patricians, fuzzy ideological profiles and reputations for personal rectitude.
Some comments by Mr. Romney suggesting that he lacks the common touch have evoked memories of the 2004 Democratic contender John Kerry - another wealthy Massachusetts politician who had difficulty connecting with average voters.
Veterans of the 1996 campaign view Mr. Romney as a latter-day Bob Dole, who ground out a victory as the next-in-line contender for the Republican mantle despite the misgivings of significant portions of an ideologically charged primary electorate. Mr. Dole had lost the 1988 nomination to George H.W. Bush.
"The second-time around guy," said Ken Khachigian, a longtime Republican campaign operative. The same description applies to the elder Mr. Bush, who won the presidency, and to John McCain, who lost the 2000 nomination to George W. Bush before winning the 2008 nomination and falling that November to Barack Obama.
Mr. Romney's campaign would like the relevant comparison to be Ronald Reagan in 1980. A former California governor then, Mr. Reagan ran to change the nation's economic course against a Democratic incumbent, Jimmy Carter, who seemed unable to turn the nation around. Mr. Reagan beat Mr. Carter in a landslide.
But one veteran of the younger Mr. Bush's campaign fears a different parallel - that of Michael Dukakis, another Massachusetts governor, who won the 1988 Democratic nomination.
"It does have some appeal from an analytical point of view," said Daron Shaw, a University of Texas political scientist who advised the 2000 and 2004 Bush campaigns.
Like Mr. Dukakis, he explained, Mr. Romney is "a guy who's going to campaign on competence."
Like Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Romney will face an incumbent president's skillful political team running a populist campaign. George H.W. Bush's campaign ran on a social populism that painted Democrats and their nominee as out of the political mainstream on crime, patriotism and other issues. President Obama is planning a campaign of economic populism, arguing that Mr. Romney is out of touch with middle-class concerns.
"It's mostly about painting an unacceptable contrast," Mr. Shaw concluded. For the party trying to win back the White House, "it looks good for a while, but then the incumbent party peels the bark off the challenger."
- 
6:52 P.M. | Voters' Voices: A Huntsman Surge in Merrimack
MERRIMACK, N.H. - John Gautieri, 46, a retail manager, was undecided until recently, torn between Mr. Romney's experience as a governor and Mr. Gingrich's experience as House speaker. But he ended up voting for Mr. Huntsman.
"He has experience in foreign affairs," Mr. Gautieri said. "I want someone who can communicate with world leaders."
He briefly considered Mr. Paul, he said, but believes that "we do need allies."
"America can't just go off and be a separate entity," he said.
Kenny Howe, 45, a construction worker, said he had considered Ron Paul but decided that he was "too old" and voted for Mr. Huntsman. He said he was too busy to watch the debates but his mother suggested Mr. Huntsman, and so he voted for him.
Colleen McCarthy, 34, a teacher, said she voted for Mr. Huntsman because she liked that he talked about restoring trust.
"He seems to be straightforward and he wants to rebuild the trust, and that's lacking all over," she said. She had briefly considered Rick Santorum because she liked his emphasis on family values, but decided that the trust issue was bigger.
"No one trusts Washington anymore," she said.
- 
6:47 P.M. | Caucus Click: At Gingrich's Rally Party
- 
6:42 P.M. | Exit Polls: Content With the Candidates
MANCHESTER, N.H. - For months, polls have indicated what Republican voters said anecdotally: they were frustrated by their choices as they picked a presidential nominee.
But the voters in New Hampshire tonight are pushing back against that narrative. Two-thirds report that they are satisfied with their current field of Republican primary candidates. Only around 3 in 10 say they would like to see another candidate running for the nomination.
When it comes to the specific candidates, however, only a Mitt Romney nomination would satisfy a majority of voters. Three-fifths of primary voters say they would be satisfied if Mitt Romney won the Republican nomination.
In contrast, only two-fifths or fewer would be happy with each of three other leading contenders - Newt Gingrich (just over one-third), Ron Paul (two-fifths), and Rick Santorum (just under two-fifths).
- 
6:38 P.M. | Exit Polls: Beating Obama
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Who can beat President Obama? 
If New Hampshire voters are to be believed, they think that Mr. Romney is the candidate with the best chance of beating Mr. Obama in November. A slight majority of primary voters choose Mr. Romney over all of the other candidates as the strongest general election candidate. 
No other candidate reaches 20 percent.
- 
6:35 P.M. | Networks Expect an Early Call
If Mitt Romney is lucky tonight, he might be giving a victory speech before television viewers on the West Coast even sit down to dinner.
Last week, when it was unclear who had won the Iowa caucuses hours after they ended on Tuesday, Mr. Romney did not speak until 12:30 a.m. Wednesday Eastern time, long after most viewers had turned off their TVs and computers.
But tonight, network executives expect to be able to project a winner of the New Hampshire primary close to the time that the final polls close in the state - and they expect the winner to be Mr. Romney. The second-place finisher will most likely take longer to determine, giving political pundits plenty to chew on well into the evening.
Early projections would maximize the potential prime-time audience for the winner's speech in New Hampshire. The Republican strategist Steve Schmidt alluded to the possibility on MSNBC on Tuesday evening.
"I think tonight what Mitt Romney's hoping for is to have an early call on the race," Mr. Schmidt said, "so he can go out, give a victory speech between 9, 9:30 p.m., not have to wait past 11 p.m. to begin to put this awful 48 hours behind him."
- 
6:34 P.M. | Exit Polls: Age and Income
MANCHESTER, N.H. - One of the key voting blocs in the 2012 election has been the young. Ron Paul, in particular, has been targeting that group.
We will know more later tonight about how those groups voted, and whether young people helped Mr. Paul boost his showing.
But for now, here's a bit of background about who turned out to vote.
Preliminary exit poll results show that a large majority of voters today were over 45 years old, while less than 3 in 10 were under 44.
About a third of voters had total family incomes over $100,000, and about two-thirds of voters had incomes under $100,000. (New Hampshire is a fairly wealthy state, and had the highest median income among all states in 2010, at $66,707).
Over half of New Hampshire's primary voters have a college degree, and nearly 9 in 10 voters have more than a high school degree. A majority of voters in New Hampshire today hail from the suburbs, while nearly a third live in rural areas.
- 
6:31 P.M. | Experienced Voters and Late Deciders 
MANCHESTER, N.H. - For New Hampshire residents, voting is pretty much old hat.
Preliminary exit poll results find fewer first-time voters in New Hampshire than there were in Iowa. Just over 1 in 10 voters say today was the first time they voted in a Republican presidential primary; in last week's Iowa caucuses, nearly 4 in 10 were first-time caucusgoers.
But the Republican primary this year has confounded many voters, who said they decided only in the last several days, as the candidates picked up their efforts to win support here.
In the data so far, there are about as many late deciders in New Hampshire as there were in Iowa last week. Nearly half of New Hampshire voters say they made up their minds only within the last few days, including about 2 in 10 who said they decided just today. 
In Iowa, Ron Paul beat out the other candidates among first-time voters, while late deciders favored Rick Santorum. We'll keep an eye on later data coming in from New Hampshire to see who these groups support today. 
- 
6:30 P.M. | Gingrich Says Romney Must Get 50 Percent
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Just hours before polls close, Newt Gingrich sought to raise the bar that Mitt Romney needs to clear in order to be seen as a winner here.
"If he can't break 50 percent," Mr. Gingrich asserted on CNN's "John King USA" Tuesday evening, he will not be able to claim to be the "presumptive front-runner."
No poll has showed Mr. Romney within striking distance of getting 50 percent of the vote in the six-way contest. Mr. Gingrich said Mr. Romney would have an even tougher time in South Carolina, which holds its primary in 11 days.
"He's going to have a very hard time defending his record as governor" of Massachusetts, Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
6:29 P.M. | Bearish for Huntsman?
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Based on a small sampling of bear biologists (one), it could be a good night for Jon M. Huntsman Jr.
This is not just any bear biologist. This is bear biologist in New Hampshire. He is Eric Orff (a bear of a man, naturally) and he was New Hampshire's chief bear biologist from 1978 to 1998.
We encountered Mr. Orff at the bar of the Radisson Hotel on Tuesday afternoon, where he was drinking a Budweiser and wearing a tan baseball cap with the likeness of a a big black bear on its front. Mr. Orff said he voted for Mr. Huntsman, a former governor of Utah, because Mr. Huntsman was the only candidate who has been talking about global warming. This is a matter of big concern to Mr. Orff, who lives in the town of Epsom and who has watched the habits of the state's 5,000 or so black bears shift with the changing climate.
"I study the bears, obviously," said Mr. Orff. "We have a wandering bear problem here." When the weather is warmer, he explained, the bears are less likely to sleep - so they will move into residential areas in search of food. They dip into bird feeders. They become a nuisance to people, though generally not a threat. New Hampshire's bears are the generally non-lethal black variety (no polar or grizzlies here). "The last time someone was killed by a wild bear in the state of New Hampshire was 1783," said Mr. Orff.
On the other hand, 418 bears were killed by people in the state last year during its September-November bear-hunting season. These are the kinds of factoids you learn from a bear biologist you encounter on primary day.
Mr. Orff, an independent, became the state's bear biologist after working as a fish biologist. "When the permanent bear biologist job opened up, I jumped at it," he said. New Hampshire's bears thrived under his stewardship, he said. "Under my tenure, the state's bear population went from 1,000 to 5,000," he said.
In addition to his own vote, Mr. Huntsman received the vote of Mr. Orff's sister and niece - so maybe there's something to this Hunts-mania thing, at least among the ursine-curious and their loved ones.
One last poll question for Mr. Orff: Yogi or Winnie the Pooh?
"Yogi," he answered quickly. "By far."
- 
6:19 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Voting With Obama in Mind
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Linda Moore, 52, a retired secretary, said she "flip-flopped all over the place before settling on Mr. Romney," and settled for him only through a process of elimination.
Ms. Moore, who said she thinks of herself as independent although she is enrolled as a Republican, said she liked that Mr. Romney and Mr. Huntsman did not sign a pledge to oppose abortion in all circumstances. "That cinched it for me," she said. "We don't want to go back to the dark ages on abortion." She liked Mr. Huntsman especially, she said, because he appeared to be moderate and not pandering to the right wing.
But she decided two days ago that he "wasn't viable" in the long run, and was left with Mr. Romney. She said she was not enthusiastic about him but wanted to beat President Obama, who, she said, "is driving us into the ground."
Ray Spooner, 71, a retired electrical engineer, is a Democrat and came to vote for President Obama. "I'm just giving him a vote of confidence," he said. Asked if he thought the president was doing a good job, Mr. Spooner replied, "The best he can, given all the crap being thrown at him."
Michael and Valerie Chaput both voted for Mr. Romney. "He is pro-life and pro-business and he has a history in Massachusetts of balancing the budget," said Mr. Chaput, 49, a mechanical engineer. "He's conservative and he can beat Obama."
Mrs. Chaput, 49, a homemaker, said she chose Mr. Romney because he supported Israel. She made up her mind after watching the debates. "Mitt comes across the best under attack," she said. Besides, she joked, "he's not bad to look at."
- 
6:10 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Paul Supporters at Mastricola School
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Paul Thompson, 41, a machine operator and an independent who voted for Barack Obama in 2008, said he made up his mind Monday night to vote for Ron Paul. "I thought I had decided a long time ago to vote for Romney because I thought he would win," Mr. Thompson said. "And I think he will. But I thought Ron Paul would make the harder choices, like cutting spending and cutting off parts of the federal government."
Mr. Thompson said he thought Mr. Paul's television ads were persuasive.
Jack Russell, 28, who works in security, said he watched the debates, did a lot of research and decided to vote for Ron Paul. "Honesty and integrity," Mr. Russell said. "Everyone else is influenced by money."
Bill Cummings, 53, a financial adviser, decided around Christmas to vote for Ron Paul. "I like his frankness, and there's less hot air coming from him," he said. "And we need someone who's serious about making cuts."
- 
6:05 P.M. | Scenes From New Hampshire: Gingrich's Expectations
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Newt Gingrich lowered expectations for his finish in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday while queueing up the battle royale with Mitt Romney for the soul of conservative South Carolina. 
He predicted a "top three or four" finish for himself during a morning television appearance, then headed to polling places, where he honed the case he would be making against Mr. Romney beginning at a 9 a.m. appearance on Wednesday in Rock Hill, S.C. 
After his disappointing fourth-place finish in the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Gingrich has told downtrodden New Hampshire supporters, in essence, to take heart, we'll lick 'em in the South. 
The contours of his strategy there are well known: to box Mr. Romney in as too moderate, while simultaneously appealing to an anti-Wall Street populism, flaying Mr. Romney for making millions buying and selling companies at the expense of ordinary workers who lost jobs. 
"I have no problem with free enterprise,'' Mr. Gingrich said. "But I do have some real questions if the investors took all the money and the employees took all the losses.''
He also signaled that he will defend his right flank in South Carolina from the conservative alternative of Rick Santorum. 
In a rare chat with reporters aboard his campaign's press bus, Mr. Gingrich said, "If there's a clear distinction with, say, Santorum, it is I actually know how to build a nationwide campaign and he lost Pennsylvania by the largest margin of any senator in the history of the state.''
If the reactions of a handful of voters here are a guide, the attack on the source of Mr. Romney's wealth could be risky. It could alienate supporters who rallied for him because of his early, now inoperative vow to run a positive campaign.
Several New Hampshire voters said they had decided on Jon M. Huntsman Jr. because they were turned off by Mr. Gingrich's recent turn to negativity. 
"We live in a free capitalist society," said Laura Gardner, 47, of Merrimack, who said she decided to vote for Mr. Huntsman in recent days after rejecting both Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney. "I can't speak knowledgeably enough on what Bain did, but I don't like that they're going after each other.''
- 
6:04 P.M. | Exit Polls: New Hampshire vs. Iowa
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mr. Romney barely edged out an eight-vote victory in Iowa over Mr. Santorum last week. If surveys are right, he will beat Mr. Santorum by a much wider margin in New Hampshire.
Why? One reason is that the two states are very different demographically, as demonstrated by information provided to pollsters as voters exited tonight.
Compared with Iowa's caucusgoers, New Hampshire's primary voters include more independents, fewer evangelicals and a more moderate makeup over all, early results from exit polls show.
Preliminary results of New Hampshire exit polls show that nearly half of the primary voters identify as independents or something else, and half consider themselves Republican.
About half of today's voters say they are conservative on most political matters, while a third say they are moderate. About 1 in 5 primary voters say they are very conservative, and about 1 in 10 say they are liberal.
Fiscal conservatives outnumber social conservatives in New Hampshire's primary. About two-thirds of New Hampshire voters say they are conservative on fiscal issues like taxes and spending, while only about 4 in 10 say they are conservative on social issues, like gay marriage or abortion.
Compared with caucusgoers in Iowa, New Hampshire Republican primary voters include proportionately more independents, more moderates, and fewer very conservative people. There were also fewer Tea Party supporters, fewer born-again/evangelicals, and fewer rural people among New Hampshire's Republican primary voters.
Results from Iowa's entrance poll showed that 23 percent of caucusgoers were independents, and 75 percent were Republicans. In New Hampshire tonight, preliminary exit poll data shows that about half of the voters identify as independents.
Evangelicals accounted for a majority of caucusgoers in Iowa, providing a big boost to Rick Santorum, while about one in five New Hampshire primary voters identify as evangelical or born-again Christians.
Nearly half - 47 percent - of Iowa caucusgoers described themselves as "very conservative," compared with about one in five New Hampshire primary voters. About half of New Hampshire voters said they were somewhat or very conservative on most political matters, and nearly half said they considered themselves moderate or liberal.
And the Tea Party had less influence here. Nearly two-thirds of Iowa caucusgoers said they supported the Tea Party, while about half of New Hampshire's primary voters said they did.
- 
5:57 P.M. | Scenes From New Hampshire: Santorum's Journey
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Rick Santorum has had one of the more unusual rides of the candidates who joined the six-day sprint to the New Hampshire primary.
He came in exhilarated from his unexpected near-win in Iowa last Tuesday, when he lost to Mitt Romney, the front-runner, by just eight votes.
That showing put relatively high expectations on Mr. Santorum here. He enjoyed a classic Iowa bounce, as voters flocked to his events and he seemed to build up a head of steam.
But he has a high mountain to climb. He had barely been registering in the polls here until recently. And while he garnered considerable attention, it was often because of protests against his opposition to gay rights and abortion rights. While he won points for taking questions from all comers and standing up to the hostility, it is not clear that he won many more votes than he might have. Polls suggest that he will finish near the bottom of the six-man field.
He says that repeating his Iowa performance and coming in second here would be a dream come true - and he has lowered expectations that he might.
He held no public events Tuesday, spurning the usual last-minute appeals at polling places and spending his day instead conducting radio and television interviews - and planning for the battle ahead in South Carolina, where his future appears much brighter.
A rally Monday night at a restaurant in Manchester turned out to be his final public event, and it ended on a downbeat note. He was surrounded by rowdy protesters from Ron Paul's campaign and from the Occupy movement, who jeered at him and shouted: "Bigot!" and "Shame!" His security staff closed ranks around him, his wife and the two of their seven children who accompanied them. During a scuffle, one of his aides and a protester were knocked to the ground.
In his farewell address to the state inside the restaurant, he said he hoped that a strong showing Tuesday night would "give us that boost to show the momentum so that we can go down to South Carolina, kick a little butt down in South Carolina, move on to Florida and keep kicking until we have a strong principled conservative in the model of Ronald Reagan."
Few campaigns are looking as forward to South Carolina as Mr. Santorum's. Polls show him in second place, again behind Mr. Romney. Mr. Santorum has already bought television time in South Carolina, and the state's voters are more hospitable to his brand of conservatism. He will have more money and more staff members, who had to plot strategy here on the fly. They are even looking ahead to Florida, where they are starting to organize county chairmen.
The bare-bones campaign here was not prepared to take advantage of the Iowa bounce. Mr. Santorum spent no advertising money in New Hampshire because it was too late to buy the time, and he had no serious money anyway - and no expectations - before Iowa put him on the map.
The campaign had planned for only small venues in New Hampshire, so when he came roaring in after Iowa, he drew much larger crowds than anyone had been able to plan for. This made his events seem packed, but could create a sense of haphazardness that sometimes worked to his disadvantage.
One night last week, for example, he had reserved the relatively small Belmont restaurant in Manchester for a town-hall-style meeting. But so many people showed up that the fire marshal moved the event outside, to the parking lot, where it was dark and he had to compete for attention with protesters. And Mr. Santorum had no microphone, so few people could hear him.
But Mr. Santorum kept plugging away, and that is what he plans to do in South Carolina.
- 
5:46 P.M. | Exit Polls Show Voters Concerned About National Economy
MANCHESTER, N.H. - The weeklong campaign in New Hampshire shifted dramatically toward a discussion about jobs. 
Exit polls show why this may be. 
According to the polls, New Hampshire voters say they are very concerned with the national economy, while they are feeling solid when it comes to their own finances. 
Over 90 percent are either very (two-thirds) or somewhat (one-quarter) worried about the direction of the nation's economy over the next few years. At the same time, two-thirds say that their own financial situation is holding steady. Fewer than 20 percent say they are falling behind.
Perhaps as a result of this national concern combined with personal security, their primary economic concern is controlling the deficit rather than spending on job growth. 
About three-fifths want to focus on cutting the deficit, even if it limits job growth. The remaining two-fifths would prefer to focus on job growth even if it increases the deficit.
- 
5:45 P.M. | 'The Vest' Goes on Sale
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Act quick! Before it's too late.
Rick Santorum is offering an official "Rick Santorum for President" sweater vest - the kind he's made famous (sort of) during his rise to national attention over the last several weeks.
A page on his campaign Web site says that anyone can get a vest by donating $100 to his campaign before Wednesday.
"Perfect for demonstrating solidarity with true conservatives, this vest is a great way to show your support for Rick," the Web site says. "It's 100% cotton, made in the USA, comes in grey, and is yours for your contribution of $100 or more. Don't let sleeves slow you down - donate today!"
Much has been made of Mr. Santorum's sweater vests as his campaign attire of choice. If he becomes the presidential nominee, they could become all the rage among young wannabe Republicans.
But order carefully - it may be all over by the time you get your sweater.
"Demand has been extremely high for this item," according to Mr. Santorum's site. "Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery."
- 
5:38 P.M. | A First Look at Exit Polls
MANCHESTER, N.H. - How do New Hampshire voters differ from those who cast ballots in Iowa last week?
According to preliminary exit poll results, about 6 in 10 New Hampshire voters call the economy the issue that matters most to them in deciding which candidate to support.
If that pattern holds as more New Hampshire voters explain their voting rationale, then that issue would be far more important than it was in Iowa (42 percent of Iowa caucus voters said the same). About a quarter of New Hampshire voters say the budget deficit is their top issue.
In Iowa, nearly one in four said they were looking most for someone who is a true conservative. Fewer have said the same as they exited polling locations in New Hampshire.
About a third of New Hampshire voters say the candidate quality that matters most to them is the ability to defeat President Obama in November, while about a quarter say the quality is the right experience, and nearly as many say it is a strong moral character.
- 
5:32 P.M. | Obama Advertising in New Hampshire
WASHINGTON - If it's a big Republican primary night, it must be time for another big Barack Obama newspaper ad.
The Obama campaign, fresh from its incursion last week into the Iowa caucuses, which were supposed to be an all-Republican affair, has taken out another giant advertisement, this one on the home page of The Union Leader of Manchester, N.H. Readers who clicked on the home page of the newspaper's Web site - perhaps to check Republican primary news - were treated to a giant mug of President Obama, looking determinedly off into the distance, above this caption: "Only Barack Obama is Fighting for the Middle Class."
If that sounds familiar, it's because the Obama campaign took a similar action last week, when it staked out territory on the home page of The Des Moines Register on the day of the Iowa caucuses, calling the policies of all of the Republicans running for president "terrible."
Meanwhile on Tuesday, a helpful e-mail from the Democratic National Committee to "interested parties" - read reporters - tried to move the bar on the perception of a victory by the front-runner, Mr. Romney. "By anyone's reckoning, Romney should be running away with this thing," Brad Woodhouse, the communications director, said in the e-mail, pointing to Mr. Romney's home in the state and the fact that he "worked and raised a family next door" in Massachusetts. "If Romney doesn't greatly exceed the 32 points he got in his 2008 second-place finish, this will be a loss for him."
- 
5:19 P.M. | A Note of Caution on Pre-Primary Polling 
It's been said a few times in recent weeks, but let's say it again: polls in New Hampshire can be off quite a bit in the days leading up to the nation's first primary.
In the last week, everybody was trying to figure out whether a particular candidate (Rick Santorum) received much of a "bounce" from his very tight-closing tally in Iowa, even though conservatives in New Hampshire tend to be more concerned about fiscal issues than social ones. And indeed, he has gone from about 3 percent on Dec. 30 to the low double digits, but he hasn't moved much in recent days, at least according to the tracking polls.
Of course, several candidates in the G.O.P. field have been sliding up and down, as New Hampshire's potential voters meet and vet the candidates. Some even suspect that the weekend's back-to-back debates helped cement a few voters' choices.
In watching for news out of the exit polls and actual returns tonight, though, hang on to a little of that Granite-spiced suspense. That's what we've learned about New Hampshire from a few previous election cycles - the state's voters love a surprise delivery or two. And that's why polls this late in the game - with sizable pockets of voters undecided or willing to change their mind - can be easily misread, misleading or even behind the curve. (Several of us were joking this week that we all know of people who stop answering their phones in the final days, because they have been inundated with robo-calls from campaigns and survey companies. And questioners from some of these automated polls that are the most frequently deployed, like those from Public Policy Polling or the American Research Group, cannot by law contact cellphones - and cell-only users make up a larger and larger percent of American households, now up to about 31 percent.)
So those are big caveats heading into tonight, backed by the evidence of previous New Hampshire primary stunners. For example, remember how Bill Clinton, who came in second place, emerged as the "Comeback Kid" in 1992 and rendered that year in one simple slogan, "It's the economy, stupid?" And much has been made of how nearly every poll in 2008 showed Barack Obama, the Democratic winner of Iowa's caucuses, several points ahead of Hillary Rodham Clinton in New Hampshire. In fact, she wound up winning the state by a few points.
But a more telling example of polls gone awry can be found among the Republican field of 2008. Late tracking polls showed Mitt Romney with around 30 percent leading into New Hampshire's primary, after Mike Huckabee won Iowa (and he had 13 percent in New Hampshire). But the candidate whose bus often seemed parked in a snowbank outside events in that state day after day - Senator John McCain - was polling in the mid-to-higher 20s.
In the end, Senator McCain pulled 5 points ahead of Mr. Romney, getting 37 percent to Mr. Romney's 32 percent. The senator gained 10 or more points above his showing in the final days of tracking, defying Seabiscuit odds, especially after nearly ignoring Iowa and with South Carolina ahead on the track.
The numbers are a little different this time. According to the latest Suffolk University tracking polls, which included interviews of likely Republican and independent voters Sunday and Monday, Mr. Romney has crept back up and no one in the field is polling as close as Mr. McCain did to Mr. Romney in 2008.
This time around, Suffolk shows that Mr. Romney leads at 37 percent; Ron Paul at 18 percent; Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who probably has clocked the most hours in the state in the last several weeks, up to 16 percent; Rick Santorum at 11 percent; and Newt Gingrich at 9 percent.
Is there a wild card among them? Will the race for second place be more dynamic than it looks? Mr. Santorum, and even Mr. Huntsman, has gotten a lot more attention since Iowa. We'll have to wait a few more hours to find out whether the real votes align with the polls. Meanwhile, we'll be watching the exit polls rolling in, and they may give us some clues.
- 
4:51 P.M. | Things to Keep in Mind While Awaiting Results
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Polls here will remain open for several more hours as the Republican candidates prepare to dash from the state.
Unlike the Iowa contest last week, New Hampshire's is a traditional primary, with voters casting their ballots throughout the day.
Here are a few things to keep in mind as we await the results:
1. A Romney Sweep: Winning both Iowa and New Hampshire is a rare thing and is a key step toward Mitt Romney's Plan A - a quick, decisive capture of the nomination. He also has a Plan B - a long slog to amass delegates - but none of his advisers would deny that they prefer going the first route.
2. Second Place Matters: The expectation that Mr. Romney will win the primary tonight means that there will be as much focus on who comes in second. But look for the big question to be whether the second-place finisher has the resources and the appeal to build on that finish in coming weeks.
3. Victory (or Defeat) Speeches: They matter. Rick Santorum's address after Iowa impressed voters and donors as he headed to New Hampshire. Shrill and bitter speeches rarely work well; neither do speeches that appear to take the process for granted. 
4. Independents Are Key. Exit polls will help answer the question about which candidate is best able to appeal to independents, who often turn out in big numbers in New Hampshire. That could be an important signal for how Mr. Romney, or one of the other candidates, might do against President Obama in the fall.
- 

        
How Romney Won
        
Just Where Are Those Voters?
        
Romney's Lead in New Hampshire Slips in Poll
        
Live Blogging the New Hampshire Debate
        
New Hampshire Debate Live Blog

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (96%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); ABORTION (60%); BUDGETS (60%) live blog; New Hampshire primary; From New Hampshire

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); RON PAUL (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



449 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 11368 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Primary Live Blog

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall. 
The Times's political unit is still on the ground in the Granite State to provide live updates and analysis. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard | Download the Election 2012 iPhone AppTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults 10:52 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Mitt Romney has been declared the winner. The candidates have given their speeches and are now on their way to South Carolina, and we are, too. Check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
- 
10:49 P.M. | What the New Hampshire Exit Polls Say About S.C.
With the primary season moving south in the coming weeks, what do the New Hampshire exit polls suggest about each candidate's potential strengths and weaknesses in South Carolina?
Before the outcome of tonight's primary, surveys showed that the three top candidates in South Carolina were Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum. Although Ron Paul and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. finished in the top three in New Hampshire, the exit polls provide good reason to think they will not repeat those performances in South Carolina.
Both Mr. Paul and Mr. Huntsman did best among New Hampshire voters describing themselves as liberal or moderate, and worst among voters describing themselves as conservatives. (But, of the 1 in 10 voters whose most important quality was choosing a "true conservative," Mr. Paul was selected by about 42 percent.)
Seven of 10 voters in the 2008 South Carolina Republican primary identified themselves as conservative, a much greater portion than voters in New Hampshire - about half - this year.
Can either Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum emerge in South Carolina as the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney? The New Hampshire exit polls point to each candidate's possible strengths in this area. Mr. Gingrich outperformed Mr. Santorum among fiscal conservatives in New Hampshire and among those primarily concerned with the budget deficit, though both candidates lost to Mr. Romney among both these groups. On the other hand, Mr. Santorum outperformed Mr. Gingrich among social conservatives and among those primarily concerned with abortion. While Mr. Romney beat both of these candidates among social conservatives, he did not beat Mr. Santorum among abortion issue voters. Presumably, these voters will become more important as the primary moves to South Carolina.
 In terms of candidate qualities, the New Hampshire exit polls show that after Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich does the second best of any candidate among voters whose most important candidate quality is the ability to beat President Obama. Mr. Santorum's biggest advantage comes from voters who say the most important candidate quality is being a true conservative - a group he actually won in New Hampshire.
 Over all, the exit poll results suggest that Mr. Santorum's path to a strong showing in South Carolina will rest largely on his continued emphasis on socially conservative issues like abortion and possibly also gay marriage (although no exit poll questions have asked about this). Mr. Gingrich's base of support is a bit more broad than Mr. Santorum's, but overlaps to a larger degree with Mr. Romney's strengths. This may explain, in part, why Mr. Gingrich has chosen a more aggressive stance towards Mr. Romney, while Mr. Santorum has been content to stay above the fray.
- 
10:26 P.M. | Santorum and Gingrich Will Fight On
MANCHESTER, N.H. - To the majestic chords of "To the Skies," Mr. Santorum entered a small hotel ballroom here, not to concede defeat in the New Hampshire primary but to say that he had exceeded expectations.
At 9:54 p.m. Tuesday, he walked on stage with his wife and some of his children and an entourage of about a dozen men in suits as he held a slim lead for fourth place.
"We are going to go on to South Carolina," he declared, to hoots and hollers from the crowd of about 100 people. He said he would be the "true conservative" in the race.
Because he started here barely registering in the polls, he said that depending on which polls were used as a baseline, he had come in at either 10 times, 5 times or 3 times where he started.
Mr. Santorum said that his grandfather, who emigrated to Pennsylvania to work in the coal mines, "was not deterred by temporary setbacks," and suggested that he had that same determination.
He said that he competed in New Hampshire because "we wanted to respect the process" and campaign in every state, and that he appreciated the opportunity to talk about faith and family.
"We didn't spend a lot of money, but we put our message out there," he said. "We came where the campaign was and delivered a message not just for New Hampshire but for America."
Partway through his eight-minute appearance, Mr. Santorum referred to Mitt Romney, not by name, but as someone who had spent a lot of time and money in the state. Then he congratulated him, by name, for winning.
"He worked hard in this state and invested in this state," Mr. Santorum said. He said he spoke with Mr. Romney earlier and said he was looking forward to engaging on the issues.
Mr. Gingrich, speaking at the same time as Mr. Santorum, said he would continue on to South Carolina and Florida, which he called "the next two great contests" in the presidential campaign.
"As we get to South Carolina, as the choice becomes clear," Mr. Gingrich said, "I believe we can reach out and we can create a majority that will shock the country and a majority that will continue to put us on the right track."
Mr. Gingrich added: "It is doable. It is a daunting challenge. But consider the alternative."
- 
9:59 P.M. | Video: Huntsman Vows to Continue to S.C.
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mr. Huntsman, addressing a crowd of supporters in Manchester about 9:30 p.m., quickly made it clear that he was continuing on to South Carolina despite his third-place finish. "I'd say third place is a ticket to ride," he said before launching into a version of the stump speech he has given dozens of times around the state.
"We are the most blue-sky, problem-solving, can-do people on earth and we're going to get out there and we're going to address this trust deficit," he said. "All we need is a little bit of leadership and a plan."
In recent days, Mr. Huntsman has stressed that he has spent time building support in South Carolina and has the backing of Henry McMaster, the state's attorney general, among others. He has scheduled campaign events in North Charleston and Columbia for Wednesday.
- 
9:56 P.M. | Paul's Speech
MANCHESTER, N.H. - To the music of the reliable non-winners theme "Won't Back Down," Ron Paul declared his second-place finish "a victory for the cause of liberty tonight." 
Shortly after Mr. Romney ended his victory speech, Mr. Paul delivered a trademark speech about overspending and big government, along with swipes at the media, which Mr. Paul said had rightly described his campaign as "dangerous."
"That's one thing they are telling the truth - we are dangerous to the status quo," Mr. Paul said.
The enthusiastic crowd before him at a banquet hall in Manchester, dominated by the jeans-clad young volunteers and voters who have provided the energy for his presidential campaign, broke into lusty boos at every mention of "fiat money" or "policing the world," hallmarks of the iconoclastic but energetic political views that have made Mr. Paul a force for other Republicans to contend with.
"Liberty has to be remphasized," Mr. Paul said. "Over the last hundred years, we've taken liberty and chopped it up."
- 
9:52 P.M. | Crowd Still Waiting for Santorum
MANCHESTER, N.H. - While Rick Santorum was locked in a tight race for fourth place with Newt Gingrich in the New Hampshire primary, reporters and other media types appeared to outnumber Santorum supporters at his party headquarters here at a small, unadorned hotel ballroom.
Many in the crowd of fewer than 100 were volunteers for his campaign or related to someone who was. They stood watching the primary unfold silently on a large screen on the stage while '60s and '70s pop music thrummed in the room. Long after Mitt Romney claimed victory, the crowd was still waiting for Mr. Santorum to appear.
Richard Cote, 48, a bagger at a local supermarket, said he came to the party because he had seen the numbers earlier on television and felt sorry for Mr. Santorum.
"I thought he'd win," Mr. Cote said. "I feel bad."
Kevin Moore, 34, a volunteer for Mr. Santorum who said he is basically a full-time volunteer for political campaigns, said he was disappointed tonight. "I wish he'd gotten more traction," he said.
Susan Stys, 55, a nurse, said that after she voted for Mr. Santorum, she found herself standing next to him when he appeared at the Radisson Hotel downtown for radio interviews. She said she came because she was "all about the process" and liked the low-key quality of the evening gathering.
"I'm just impressed, especially by the normalcy of everyone here," she said. Many were wearing casual, cold-weather clothes - including a sweater vest or two - with suits in the minority.
Around 9:35, an aide said Mr. Santorum was waiting for the numbers to "solidify" and perhaps "break out," and then the candidate would address the crowd.
- 
9:45 P.M. | Huntsman Claims to Be 'in the Hunt'
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. hailed his third-place showing in New Hampshire, declaring that his campaign is "in the hunt" for the Republican nomination for president.
"I'd say third place is a ticket to ride, ladies and gentlemen," Mr. Huntsman told an enthusiastic crowd. "Hello, South Carolina!"
Mr. Huntsman's campaign was hoping that a late surge in the state would push him into second place behind Mitt Romney. That didn't happen.
But Mr. Huntsman had repeatedly declared that he simply needed to beat "market expectations," without ever defining what those expectations were.
In his remarks Tuesday night, Mr. Huntsman decried two deficits in the country: an economic deficit represented by $15 trillion in debt and a trust deficit, in which Americans no longer have faith in their institutions.
"We are too good as people to be in this hole," Mr. Huntsman declared.
- 
9:28 P.M. | Challenges Await Romney in South Carolina
For a deeper look into the challenges awaiting Mitt Romney in South Carolina, check out Jim Rutenberg's news analysis.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Paul Claims Second Place, Happily 
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Ron Paul declared himself satisfied with his second-place showing in the New Hampshire primary, calling it "a victory for the cause of liberty tonight."
Mr. Paul, a congressman from Texas, said he called to congratulate Mitt Romney on his win in the state. But he said that he will continue to wage the "intellectual revolution" that he has started
"There is no way they are going to stop the momentum that we have started," Mr. Paul told a raucous crowd shortly after Mr. Romney gave his own speech.
Mr. Paul bragged about getting the political system to talk about "real cuts" in spending, monetary policy and the Federal Reserve.
He said concerns about the future of the dollar "will remain a dominant issue" in future conversations about politics no matter what happens in this presidential campaign.
"There's no way they are going to put it to bed," he said.
- 
9:09 P.M. | Santorum: On to South Carolina
MANCHESTER, N.H. - After his disappointing showing Tuesday in the New Hampshire primary, Rick Santorum is banking on South Carolina to regain the momentum he had a week ago, when he nearly won the Iowa caucuses.
Mr. Santorum did not spend any money on television advertising in New Hampshire. His campaign figured that Mitt Romney had such a wide lead here that even if Mr. Santorum gained a few percentage points, aides said, it would not matter.
The Santorum campaign has raised $3 million since Iowa and is already pumping $1.5 million of it into television ads in South Carolina. The ads began running Tuesday.
John Braebender, a top adviser and media strategist for Mr. Santorum, said the moderate voters of New Hampshire were not a natural constituency for Mr. Santorum. But, he said, the campaign decided to compete here because doing so offered priceless national media exposure without draining scarce resources.
"If we had just gone to South Carolina, we would have disappeared from the national radar and our fund-raising would have gone downhill," Mr. Braebender said.
The campaign also thought that if Mr. Santorum did not compete here, his potential voters would have gone to Newt Gingrich, whom the Santorum campaign sees as its main competition as the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Santorum stayed on his conservative message here, which Mr. Braebender said would make it easier for him to continue that approach in South Carolina. Others, including Mr. Romney and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., made explicit appeals to the moderates in New Hampshire. It will be hard for them to do an about-face to appeal to the conservative voters in South Carolina, he said.
The Santorum campaign has a bigger campaign presence in South Carolina than it had here and has redeployed its forces from here and Iowa. It is also starting to organize county chairmen in Florida.
- 
9:03 P.M. | Video: Romney's Speech
- 
8:59 P.M. | Perry Vows to Stay In
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Despite finishing near the very bottom in New Hampshire on Tuesday night, Rick Perry vowed to continue on in the Republican presidential contest as the party searches for what he called a "conservative alternative" to Mitt Romney.
"I believe being the only non-establishment outsider in the race, the proven fiscal and social conservative and proven job creator will win the day in South Carolina," Mr. Perry said in a statement from that state.
"I have a head start here, and it's friendly territory for a Texas governor and veteran with solid outsider credentials, the nation's best record of job creation, and solid fiscal, social and Tea Party conservatism," he said.
Mr. Perry has spent several days in South Carolina after finishing fifth in Iowa's caucuses. He suspended his campaign after the Iowa results but said a day later that he would stay in the race.
In the last several days, Mr. Perry has been the most aggressive of all the candidates in attacking Mr. Romney's leadership at Bain Capital, an investment firm that Mr. Romney founded in the 1980s.
In a particularly harsh attack on Tuesday, Mr. Perry compared Mr. Romney's firm to "vultures" that tear companies apart, fire people and leave the "skeleton" behind.
- 
8:54 P.M. | How Romney Won
MANCHESTER, N.H. - A prevailing sense among New Hampshire primary voters that Mitt Romney is the candidate most likely to defeat Barack Obama helped lift him to victory today.
According to exit polls, a majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him today.
Mr. Romney has been making that argument for months, and has focused most of his rhetorical fire at the president in the hopes of demonstrating how he will run against him. 
It appears that the argument worked.
 Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate - it was cited more than any other quality - and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. By contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) accounted for only about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they comprised a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago. 
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who had made up their minds early.
- 
8:53 P.M. | Huntsman's Support From Moderates and Liberals
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. offered himself as a conservative alternative to Mitt Romney, but the bulk of his support on Tuesday came from moderate and liberal voters, those satisfied with the Obama administration, and those opposed to the Tea Party movement.
After campaigning in New Hampshire for months, Mr. Huntsman had a late-breaking surge of support to propel him into the top three. But the surge came too late to overtake Mr. Romney, who won the primary.
Roughly 6 in 10 of Mr. Huntsman's voters said they had decided whom to support in the few days leading up to the election. Just over one-third of Ron Paul's and Mr. Romney's supporters said the same.
Mr. Huntsman, who served as ambassador to China during the first half of President Obama's term, toiled near the bottom of national polls and had little money to communicate with voters through much of last year.
Mr. Huntsman's voters were the least likely to say they had been contacted by their candidate's campaign. A 53 percent majority of Huntsman supporters say they were never contacted by his campaign, compared with 42 percent of Mr. Paul's supporters and 38 percent of Mr. Romney's.
Over all, Mr. Huntsman performed best among groups of voters who either support the Obama administration or share some of its views. His likely second- or third-place finish results from the relatively small numbers of these types of voters in the primary electorate.
Mr. Huntsman's strongest showing, perhaps not surprisingly, was among voters with warmer-than-average (for the primary electorate) views of President Obama and his administration. Among voters who reported being satisfied with the Obama administration, roughly 4 in 10 supported Mr. Huntsman. In contrast, he received fewer than 1 in 10 votes from those who described themselves as "angry" with the administration.
Unfortunately for Mr. Huntsman, the latter outnumbered the former by three to one. Mr. Huntsman was also a clear favorite among voters who oppose the Tea Party movement. Among those opposing the Tea Party, over 40 percent voted for Mr. Huntsman, while only a quarter supported Mr. Romney, the closest candidate among that category of voters.
Here again, however, those voters made up a small proportion of the electorate - fewer than one-fifth.
- 
8:49 P.M. | Paul's Supporters 
Even though Mr. Paul appears to have gained a strong showing in the New Hampshire primary, according to exit poll results and projections, he failed to win enough support from several key groups to cut deeply into Mr. Romney's lead.
In New Hampshire, Mr. Paul's supporters were younger: half of those under age 29 backed him and roughly 3 in 10 from ages 30 to 44 voted for him. Among those who said they were socially moderate or liberal, Mr. Paul drew about 3 in 10 voters.
Independents split their vote, with Mr. Paul getting the nod from about 3 in 10 independents, nearly the same as Mr. Romney and Jon Huntsman, who got about 2 in 10. He drew about 1 in 5 fiscal conservatives.
About three in five voters said cutting the budget, even if it limits job growth, should be a higher priority for the next president. Mr. Paul, with his proposed trillion-dollar budget cut proposal, attracted almost 3 in 10 of these deficit hawks, about equal to Mitt Romney's draw.
 But the economy as an issue dwarfed the deficit, and more of those economy-focused voters supported Mr. Romney. About a quarter of voters who said they were very worried about the future of the nation's economy supported him, but more supported Mr. Romney. About 3 in 10n of those who said they were falling behind financially supported Mr. Paul, about the same number that supported Mr. Romney. 
- 
8:44 P.M. | Romney Speaks
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney declared on Tuesday night that his campaign had "made history" in New Hampshire and vowed to continue on to South Carolina as he pursues his party's nomination to take on President Obama in the fall.
"Tonight we celebrate. Tomorrow we go back to work," Mr. Romney said to an ecstatic crowd at Southern New Hampshire University in Hooksett.
Mr. Romney barely mentioned the Republican rivals whom he bested, though he said that in recent days, "desperate Republicans" have sought to "join forces" with Mr. Obama in an assault on free enterprise in America.
"This is such a mistake for our party and for our nation," he said, adding that America already has a politician - Mr. Obama - who practices what he called the "politics of envy."
Mr. Romney spent most of his time reprising his case against Mr. Obama, saying that the upcoming general election campaign will be critical and "about saving the soul of America."
In the brief speech, which started around 8:30 p.m. Eastern and lasted about 10 minutes, Mr. Romney assailed the economic policies that he said were helping to destroy the country.
"This president takes his inspirations from the capitals of Europe," Mr. Romney said. "This president puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people."
- 
8:39 P.M. | Romney: 'Tonight We Made History'
HOOKSETT, N.H. - "Tonight we made history," Mitt Romney said at his victory celebration, offering a huge grin. (Before Mr. Romney came out, his ebullient aides had been rushing around the hot dining center at Southern New Hampshire University here making the same point - that in winning Iowa and now New Hampshire, Mr. Romney had achieved a historic feat).
- 
8:34 P.M. | Exit Polls: Romney Most Electable 
A majority of voters said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and about 6 in 10 of them supported him today. Over all, about a third of New Hampshire voters said electability was the top quality they were looking for in a candidate - it was cited more than any other quality - and about 6 in 10 of these voters backed Mr. Romney (he won this group in Iowa as well, but not as convincingly).
Most voters in New Hampshire said they would be satisfied with Mr. Romney as the Republican presidential nominee. In contrast, a majority of voters said they would be dissatisfied if Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul or Rick Santorum was the nominee.
The most important issue by far for New Hampshire voters was the economy, cited by about 6 in 10, and these voters supported Mr. Romney far more than any other candidate. Compared with Iowa, more voters in New Hampshire said the economy was their top issue, and more of them supported Mr. Romney. (Both states have unemployment rates that are lower than the national average.)
Mr. Romney ran strongly among enrolled Republicans and self-identified Republicans. Undeclared voters and independents were more closely divided between candidates.
The difference in the makeup of today's electorate compared with Iowa's also worked to Mr. Romney's advantage. Very conservative voters (a group that divided their support between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum today) only accounted for about 2 in 10 New Hampshire voters. In Iowa, they accounted for nearly half of all caucusgoers. Similarly, evangelical Christians (who also split their vote today) made up just over a fifth of New Hampshire's electorate; they made up a majority of Iowa's voters a week ago.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Romney today were higher-income voters (he won nearly half of voters whose household income was $100,000 or more, more than a third of today's electorate), older voters, Catholics and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
8:33 P.M. | Romney Finishes Strong With Conservatives
From the exit polls, the divide of support among certain groups that split between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum is quite telling. Mr. Romney fared just as well as Mr. Santorum among strong conservatives and born-again Christians. Mr. Romney won the most votes of New Hampshire's Tea Party supporters-with Mr. Paul in second place. Mr. Paul also won among New Hampshire voters seeking a "true conservative."
David Jones, one of our analysts, notes that the proportion of strong conservatives and abortion issue voters, for example, were only about half the size in New Hampshire as they were in Iowa. But even if the demographics of both states had been the same, the exit poll suggests Mr. Santorum would still have struggled in New Hampshire.
- 
8:28 P.M. | A Full Look Into Tonight's Results
As Mitt Romney takes the stage to make his victory speech, check out Jeff Zeleny's reporting on tonight's results.
- 
8:15 P.M. | Tight Race for Second Place
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Jon M. Huntsman Jr. and Ron Paul are vying for second place in New Hampshire, according to exit polls of voters Tuesday night.
The exact order of the candidates in the primary is not yet certain, since much of the vote has yet to be counted.
But Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Paul appeared to be well ahead of the other rivals in the contest.
- 
8:09 P.M. | A Redemption for Romney
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney got 75,546 votes in the 2008 New Hampshire primary.
He appears to have done much better this time around.
In 2008, he got about 32 percent of the vote, enough to place him comfortably in second place, well ahead of Mike Huckabee's 26,859 votes (11 percent) and Rudolph W. Giuliani's 20,439 (8.6 percent).
But he was unable to stop a surging Senator John McCain, who convinced 88,571 New Hampshire residents to vote for him, giving him 37 percent of the vote and first place.
Upon being declared the victor, Mr. McCain said: 
"My friends, I'm past the age when I can claim the name 'kid,' no matter what adjective precedes it. But tonight, we sure showed 'em what a comeback looks like. When the pundits declared us finished, I told 'em, 'I'm going to New Hampshire, where the voters don't let you make their decision for them.' "
Mr. Romney, in a brief concession speech that night, vowed to go "on to Michigan and South Carolina and Florida and Nevada and states after that," adding, "I'll fight to be back here in November, in those states and in others."
- 
8:00 P.M. | Mitt Romney Wins New Hampshire Primary
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mitt Romney has won the New Hampshire Republican primary, achieving a sweep of the first two critical contests in the 2012 presidential race and boosting his chances at becoming his party's nominee this fall.
The New York Times and other news organizations declared Mr. Romney the winner in the race just moments after the polls closed at 8 p.m. Eastern time Tuesday, based on exit polls and early returns. The margin of his victory and the order of those behind him remain uncertain until more votes are counted.
Mr. Romney barely won Iowa's caucuses a week ago, besting Rick Santorum by a mere eight votes out of more than 100,000 cast.
Mr. Romney's second White House bid had been premised from the beginning on the idea that he could win in New Hampshire, a state he has all but adopted as his own in the years since Senator John McCain dashed his hopes here in the previous Republican primary.
Announcing his candidacy at a family farm in Stratham, N.H., last summer, Mr. Romney praised the state's voters for being the ones who kick off the political process.
"Every four years you decide who will give that State of the Union address, who will set the course of the country, who will be commander in chief," Mr. Romney said that day.
Mr. Romney has led the field here for months, and in recent weeks seemed out of reach for his rivals, who trailed by double digits. But the contest here turned especially ugly in the last few days as several of his rivals attacked Mr. Romney's stewardship of an investment firm he founded.
Those attacks had seemed to chip away at Mr. Romney's lead after they were delivered to a nationwide television audience during an NBC "Meet the Press" debate on Sunday morning.
But polls released Tuesday morning suggested that Mr. Romney remained well ahead of the rest of the field as the state's voters began arriving at their polling locations.
Anticipating a victory by Mr. Romney here, his rivals have vowed to try to stop him in South Carolina, a state where evangelical voters and conservatives tend to have more sway than they do in New Hampshire.
But Mr. Romney's campaign advisers have expressed confidence in robust operations in South Carolina and other states. They have said they are ready for the attacks in future contests. And they have argued that they are prepared for a long fight to collect the needed delegates to clinch the nomination.
- 
7:46 P.M. | The Candidates' Final Push, in Pictures
The candidates made their last appearances, some only for the benefit of media organizations, in New Hampshire on primary night.
- 
7:34 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Preparations 
- 
7:20 P.M. | Our Primary Is Better Than Yours, Says South Carolina 
GREENVILLE, S.C. - Primary? What primary?
While the political universe revolved around the voting in New Hampshire today, there were people in at least one state - yes, this one - who seemed distracted by other (more important, they would say) concerns.
First of all, there is their very own South Carolina primary coming up in just 11 days, and what better time for voters to take a quick breather before the marathon glad-handing begins in earnest? Although Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has been campaigning all week and kept himself especially busy today, none of the other candidates are in town. They arrive en masse on Wednesday.
There's also this cultural reality: people are still recovering from the big contest of Monday night, when two football titans of the South - Louisiana State University and the University of Alabama - took to the field in New Orleans. If anything is the talk of this town, it's how Alabama's defense didn't allow L.S.U. to score even once. Not even a field goal! Did you see that game? Seems like everybody here did. Your correspondent, being a native of Louisiana, appreciated the enthusiasm, if not the outcome. (Geaux Tigers!) 
But cutting back to politics, on Wednesday, the Republican candidates will descend on the state. Newt Gingrich will be in Spartanburg and Rock Hill. Representative Ron Paul of Texas will be in West Columbia. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah, will be in Columbia. Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, will also be in Columbia. Mr. Perry, who is already here, will make five stops in four towns.
South Carolina, this will be your moment! 
Excited?
"Sort of," said Chris Isham, a 25-year-old photographer and likely Republican primary voter. "Burnout happens quickly." 
Mr. Isham's friend Aaron Greene, 31, said he had watched one debate before the Iowa caucuses, was undecided about whom to support, and was already a bit weary.
"I'm tired of it and we're just getting started," he said. "That's kind of why I'm not so excited, because I know it's a long haul."
Mr. Greene expressed concern about how attack-oriented the last couple of weeks have been for the Republican contenders. He is not looking forward to seeing more of that. 
"I hope that the battle for the primary doesn't destroy our candidate for the big game against Obama," he said.
In any group of friends, there's usually one person who qualifies as "the political one" - the person who likes the drama of it, and closely follows the news. Among these friends, that person is Zach Franzen, 33, an artist.
"I'm probably the most interested person in politics that I know, and even I am disinterested in the race at this point," said Mr. Franzen, a Republican who lives in Greenville. "It seems that Mitt Romney has it all tied up at this point in New Hampshire. And I think the Iowa stuff did get pretty ugly." 
He continued: "The people here are very conservative and politics is really a blood sport, but this election, it seems that Romney is running for the general. And I think people aren't excited about that. I get the feeling that he is trying to bypass the people who are most avidly political in South Carolina because he thinks it will hurt him."
A quick check of the campaign schedule shows that Mr. Romney will have a lot of time in the state to either prove or disprove that notion over the next week and a half.
In the meantime, campaign workers have been busy behind the scenes getting things ready for what they consider the Truly Important Primary. 
"Most people don't care much about what comes out of New Hampshire," said Kerry Wood, the South Carolina state director of Rick Santorum's campaign. "Most Southerners are not too connected to what comes out of the Northeast region. We're not going to be steered or swayed by anywhere else."
- 
7:13 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Support for Paul in Manchester
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Outside the polling place at Ward 3, Ron Paul was the only candidate with any supporters present. Voters there seemed to share the candidate's politics.
"I considered Romney, only because I thought he had a better chance in the general election," said Rob Fremeau, a 31-year-old Republican who only recently solidified his support for Ron Paul. "He's got some momentum. He can make good numbers here; he did well in Iowa. Maybe we can push this thing a little further down the line."
Jeff Reno, 40, a martial arts instructor, said: "He applies the same principles to his economic policies to the litigation for morality that we have in this country. He doesn't support or advocate abortion in his own life. He realizes that it's not his position to push that view onto everyone else. That coincides more with my beliefs."
Paul Boudreau, 59, an independent customer service agent, said he appreciated Mr. Paul's unwillingness to "play politics" like the other candidates, specifically Mitt Romney. "I know he's the favorite," said Mr. Boudreau, "I don't know why."
- 
7:02 P.M. | Viewing Romney Through the Prism of History
Since World War II, just 24 men (yes, all men) have been nominated for president by one of the two major parties. And every time a new choice emerges, political observers look for parallels from recent history.
Given Mitt Romney's advantages in the 2012 Republican race, that process started long before he secures the nomination. Some of the comparisons are flattering; others are not.
Disaffected conservatives liken Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, to the 1948 Republican nominee, Thomas Dewey, another well-to-do Northeastern state executive (New York) who blew a winnable race against a vulnerable incumbent, President Harry S. Truman.
Others see Mr. Romney as a latter-day George H.W. Bush, who carried the Republican banner in 1988 after serving as Ronald Reagan's vice president. Both had prominent Republican political fathers (Gov. George Romney of Michigan and Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut), and have the bearing of patricians, fuzzy ideological profiles and reputations for personal rectitude.
Some comments by Mr. Romney suggesting that he lacks the common touch have evoked memories of the 2004 Democratic contender John Kerry - another wealthy Massachusetts politician who had difficulty connecting with average voters.
Veterans of the 1996 campaign view Mr. Romney as a latter-day Bob Dole, who ground out a victory as the next-in-line contender for the Republican mantle despite the misgivings of significant portions of an ideologically charged primary electorate. Mr. Dole had lost the 1988 nomination to George H.W. Bush.
"The second-time around guy," said Ken Khachigian, a longtime Republican campaign operative. The same description applies to the elder Mr. Bush, who won the presidency, and to John McCain, who lost the 2000 nomination to George W. Bush before winning the 2008 nomination and falling that November to Barack Obama.
Mr. Romney's campaign would like the relevant comparison to be Ronald Reagan in 1980. A former California governor then, Mr. Reagan ran to change the nation's economic course against a Democratic incumbent, Jimmy Carter, who seemed unable to turn the nation around. Mr. Reagan beat Mr. Carter in a landslide.
But one veteran of the younger Mr. Bush's campaign fears a different parallel - that of Michael Dukakis, another Massachusetts governor, who won the 1988 Democratic nomination.
"It does have some appeal from an analytical point of view," said Daron Shaw, a University of Texas political scientist who advised the 2000 and 2004 Bush campaigns.
Like Mr. Dukakis, he explained, Mr. Romney is "a guy who's going to campaign on competence."
Like Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Romney will face an incumbent president's skillful political team running a populist campaign. George H.W. Bush's campaign ran on a social populism that painted Democrats and their nominee as out of the political mainstream on crime, patriotism and other issues. President Obama is planning a campaign of economic populism, arguing that Mr. Romney is out of touch with middle-class concerns.
"It's mostly about painting an unacceptable contrast," Mr. Shaw concluded. For the party trying to win back the White House, "it looks good for a while, but then the incumbent party peels the bark off the challenger."
- 
6:52 P.M. | Voters' Voices: A Huntsman Surge in Merrimack
MERRIMACK, N.H. - John Gautieri, 46, a retail manager, was undecided until recently, torn between Mr. Romney's experience as a governor and Mr. Gingrich's experience as House speaker. But he ended up voting for Mr. Huntsman.
"He has experience in foreign affairs," Mr. Gautieri said. "I want someone who can communicate with world leaders."
He briefly considered Mr. Paul, he said, but believes that "we do need allies."
"America can't just go off and be a separate entity," he said.
Kenny Howe, 45, a construction worker, said he had considered Ron Paul but decided that he was "too old" and voted for Mr. Huntsman. He said he was too busy to watch the debates but his mother suggested Mr. Huntsman, and so he voted for him.
Colleen McCarthy, 34, a teacher, said she voted for Mr. Huntsman because she liked that he talked about restoring trust.
"He seems to be straightforward and he wants to rebuild the trust, and that's lacking all over," she said. She had briefly considered Rick Santorum because she liked his emphasis on family values, but decided that the trust issue was bigger.
"No one trusts Washington anymore," she said.
- 
6:47 P.M. | Caucus Click: At Gingrich's Rally Party
- 
6:42 P.M. | Exit Polls: Content With the Candidates
MANCHESTER, N.H. - For months, polls have indicated what Republican voters said anecdotally: they were frustrated by their choices as they picked a presidential nominee.
But the voters in New Hampshire tonight are pushing back against that narrative. Two-thirds report that they are satisfied with their current field of Republican primary candidates. Only around 3 in 10 say they would like to see another candidate running for the nomination.
When it comes to the specific candidates, however, only a Mitt Romney nomination would satisfy a majority of voters. Three-fifths of primary voters say they would be satisfied if Mitt Romney won the Republican nomination.
In contrast, only two-fifths or fewer would be happy with each of three other leading contenders - Newt Gingrich (just over one-third), Ron Paul (two-fifths), and Rick Santorum (just under two-fifths).
- 
6:38 P.M. | Exit Polls: Beating Obama
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Who can beat President Obama? 
If New Hampshire voters are to be believed, they think that Mr. Romney is the candidate with the best chance of beating Mr. Obama in November. A slight majority of primary voters choose Mr. Romney over all of the other candidates as the strongest general election candidate. 
No other candidate reaches 20 percent.
- 
6:35 P.M. | Networks Expect an Early Call
If Mitt Romney is lucky tonight, he might be giving a victory speech before television viewers on the West Coast even sit down to dinner.
Last week, when it was unclear who had won the Iowa caucuses hours after they ended on Tuesday, Mr. Romney did not speak until 12:30 a.m. Wednesday Eastern time, long after most viewers had turned off their TVs and computers.
But tonight, network executives expect to be able to project a winner of the New Hampshire primary close to the time that the final polls close in the state - and they expect the winner to be Mr. Romney. The second-place finisher will most likely take longer to determine, giving political pundits plenty to chew on well into the evening.
Early projections would maximize the potential prime-time audience for the winner's speech in New Hampshire. The Republican strategist Steve Schmidt alluded to the possibility on MSNBC on Tuesday evening.
"I think tonight what Mitt Romney's hoping for is to have an early call on the race," Mr. Schmidt said, "so he can go out, give a victory speech between 9, 9:30 p.m., not have to wait past 11 p.m. to begin to put this awful 48 hours behind him."
- 
6:34 P.M. | Exit Polls: Age and Income
MANCHESTER, N.H. - One of the key voting blocs in the 2012 election has been the young. Ron Paul, in particular, has been targeting that group.
We will know more later tonight about how those groups voted, and whether young people helped Mr. Paul boost his showing.
But for now, here's a bit of background about who turned out to vote.
Preliminary exit poll results show that a large majority of voters today were over 45 years old, while less than 3 in 10 were under 44.
About a third of voters had total family incomes over $100,000, and about two-thirds of voters had incomes under $100,000. (New Hampshire is a fairly wealthy state, and had the highest median income among all states in 2010, at $66,707).
Over half of New Hampshire's primary voters have a college degree, and nearly 9 in 10 voters have more than a high school degree. A majority of voters in New Hampshire today hail from the suburbs, while nearly a third live in rural areas.
- 
6:31 P.M. | Experienced Voters and Late Deciders 
MANCHESTER, N.H. - For New Hampshire residents, voting is pretty much old hat.
Preliminary exit poll results find fewer first-time voters in New Hampshire than there were in Iowa. Just over 1 in 10 voters say today was the first time they voted in a Republican presidential primary; in last week's Iowa caucuses, nearly 4 in 10 were first-time caucusgoers.
But the Republican primary this year has confounded many voters, who said they decided only in the last several days, as the candidates picked up their efforts to win support here.
In the data so far, there are about as many late deciders in New Hampshire as there were in Iowa last week. Nearly half of New Hampshire voters say they made up their minds only within the last few days, including about 2 in 10 who said they decided just today. 
In Iowa, Ron Paul beat out the other candidates among first-time voters, while late deciders favored Rick Santorum. We'll keep an eye on later data coming in from New Hampshire to see who these groups support today. 
- 
6:30 P.M. | Gingrich Says Romney Must Get 50 Percent
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Just hours before polls close, Newt Gingrich sought to raise the bar that Mitt Romney needs to clear in order to be seen as a winner here.
"If he can't break 50 percent," Mr. Gingrich asserted on CNN's "John King USA" Tuesday evening, he will not be able to claim to be the "presumptive front-runner."
No poll has showed Mr. Romney within striking distance of getting 50 percent of the vote in the six-way contest. Mr. Gingrich said Mr. Romney would have an even tougher time in South Carolina, which holds its primary in 11 days.
"He's going to have a very hard time defending his record as governor" of Massachusetts, Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
6:29 P.M. | Bearish for Huntsman?
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Based on a small sampling of bear biologists (one), it could be a good night for Jon M. Huntsman Jr.
This is not just any bear biologist. This is bear biologist in New Hampshire. He is Eric Orff (a bear of a man, naturally) and he was New Hampshire's chief bear biologist from 1978 to 1998.
We encountered Mr. Orff at the bar of the Radisson Hotel on Tuesday afternoon, where he was drinking a Budweiser and wearing a tan baseball cap with the likeness of a a big black bear on its front. Mr. Orff said he voted for Mr. Huntsman, a former governor of Utah, because Mr. Huntsman was the only candidate who has been talking about global warming. This is a matter of big concern to Mr. Orff, who lives in the town of Epsom and who has watched the habits of the state's 5,000 or so black bears shift with the changing climate.
"I study the bears, obviously," said Mr. Orff. "We have a wandering bear problem here." When the weather is warmer, he explained, the bears are less likely to sleep - so they will move into residential areas in search of food. They dip into bird feeders. They become a nuisance to people, though generally not a threat. New Hampshire's bears are the generally non-lethal black variety (no polar or grizzlies here). "The last time someone was killed by a wild bear in the state of New Hampshire was 1783," said Mr. Orff.
On the other hand, 418 bears were killed by people in the state last year during its September-November bear-hunting season. These are the kinds of factoids you learn from a bear biologist you encounter on primary day.
Mr. Orff, an independent, became the state's bear biologist after working as a fish biologist. "When the permanent bear biologist job opened up, I jumped at it," he said. New Hampshire's bears thrived under his stewardship, he said. "Under my tenure, the state's bear population went from 1,000 to 5,000," he said.
In addition to his own vote, Mr. Huntsman received the vote of Mr. Orff's sister and niece - so maybe there's something to this Hunts-mania thing, at least among the ursine-curious and their loved ones.
One last poll question for Mr. Orff: Yogi or Winnie the Pooh?
"Yogi," he answered quickly. "By far."
- 
6:19 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Voting With Obama in Mind
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Linda Moore, 52, a retired secretary, said she "flip-flopped all over the place before settling on Mr. Romney," and settled for him only through a process of elimination.
Ms. Moore, who said she thinks of herself as independent although she is enrolled as a Republican, said she liked that Mr. Romney and Mr. Huntsman did not sign a pledge to oppose abortion in all circumstances. "That cinched it for me," she said. "We don't want to go back to the dark ages on abortion." She liked Mr. Huntsman especially, she said, because he appeared to be moderate and not pandering to the right wing.
But she decided two days ago that he "wasn't viable" in the long run, and was left with Mr. Romney. She said she was not enthusiastic about him but wanted to beat President Obama, who, she said, "is driving us into the ground."
Ray Spooner, 71, a retired electrical engineer, is a Democrat and came to vote for President Obama. "I'm just giving him a vote of confidence," he said. Asked if he thought the president was doing a good job, Mr. Spooner replied, "The best he can, given all the crap being thrown at him."
Michael and Valerie Chaput both voted for Mr. Romney. "He is pro-life and pro-business and he has a history in Massachusetts of balancing the budget," said Mr. Chaput, 49, a mechanical engineer. "He's conservative and he can beat Obama."
Mrs. Chaput, 49, a homemaker, said she chose Mr. Romney because he supported Israel. She made up her mind after watching the debates. "Mitt comes across the best under attack," she said. Besides, she joked, "he's not bad to look at."
- 
6:10 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Paul Supporters at Mastricola School
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Paul Thompson, 41, a machine operator and an independent who voted for Barack Obama in 2008, said he made up his mind Monday night to vote for Ron Paul. "I thought I had decided a long time ago to vote for Romney because I thought he would win," Mr. Thompson said. "And I think he will. But I thought Ron Paul would make the harder choices, like cutting spending and cutting off parts of the federal government."
Mr. Thompson said he thought Mr. Paul's television ads were persuasive.
Jack Russell, 28, who works in security, said he watched the debates, did a lot of research and decided to vote for Ron Paul. "Honesty and integrity," Mr. Russell said. "Everyone else is influenced by money."
Bill Cummings, 53, a financial adviser, decided around Christmas to vote for Ron Paul. "I like his frankness, and there's less hot air coming from him," he said. "And we need someone who's serious about making cuts."
- 
6:05 P.M. | Scenes From New Hampshire: Gingrich's Expectations
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Newt Gingrich lowered expectations for his finish in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday while queueing up the battle royale with Mitt Romney for the soul of conservative South Carolina. 
He predicted a "top three or four" finish for himself during a morning television appearance, then headed to polling places, where he honed the case he would be making against Mr. Romney beginning at a 9 a.m. appearance on Wednesday in Rock Hill, S.C. 
After his disappointing fourth-place finish in the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Gingrich has told downtrodden New Hampshire supporters, in essence, to take heart, we'll lick 'em in the South. 
The contours of his strategy there are well known: to box Mr. Romney in as too moderate, while simultaneously appealing to an anti-Wall Street populism, flaying Mr. Romney for making millions buying and selling companies at the expense of ordinary workers who lost jobs. 
"I have no problem with free enterprise,'' Mr. Gingrich said. "But I do have some real questions if the investors took all the money and the employees took all the losses.''
He also signaled that he will defend his right flank in South Carolina from the conservative alternative of Rick Santorum. 
In a rare chat with reporters aboard his campaign's press bus, Mr. Gingrich said, "If there's a clear distinction with, say, Santorum, it is I actually know how to build a nationwide campaign and he lost Pennsylvania by the largest margin of any senator in the history of the state.''
If the reactions of a handful of voters here are a guide, the attack on the source of Mr. Romney's wealth could be risky. It could alienate supporters who rallied for him because of his early, now inoperative vow to run a positive campaign.
Several New Hampshire voters said they had decided on Jon M. Huntsman Jr. because they were turned off by Mr. Gingrich's recent turn to negativity. 
"We live in a free capitalist society," said Laura Gardner, 47, of Merrimack, who said she decided to vote for Mr. Huntsman in recent days after rejecting both Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney. "I can't speak knowledgeably enough on what Bain did, but I don't like that they're going after each other.''
- 
6:04 P.M. | Exit Polls: New Hampshire vs. Iowa
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Mr. Romney barely edged out an eight-vote victory in Iowa over Mr. Santorum last week. If surveys are right, he will beat Mr. Santorum by a much wider margin in New Hampshire.
Why? One reason is that the two states are very different demographically, as demonstrated by information provided to pollsters as voters exited tonight.
Compared with Iowa's caucusgoers, New Hampshire's primary voters include more independents, fewer evangelicals and a more moderate makeup over all, early results from exit polls show.
Preliminary results of New Hampshire exit polls show that nearly half of the primary voters identify as independents or something else, and half consider themselves Republican.
About half of today's voters say they are conservative on most political matters, while a third say they are moderate. About 1 in 5 primary voters say they are very conservative, and about 1 in 10 say they are liberal.
Fiscal conservatives outnumber social conservatives in New Hampshire's primary. About two-thirds of New Hampshire voters say they are conservative on fiscal issues like taxes and spending, while only about 4 in 10 say they are conservative on social issues, like gay marriage or abortion.
Compared with caucusgoers in Iowa, New Hampshire Republican primary voters include proportionately more independents, more moderates, and fewer very conservative people. There were also fewer Tea Party supporters, fewer born-again/evangelicals, and fewer rural people among New Hampshire's Republican primary voters.
Results from Iowa's entrance poll showed that 23 percent of caucusgoers were independents, and 75 percent were Republicans. In New Hampshire tonight, preliminary exit poll data shows that about half of the voters identify as independents.
Evangelicals accounted for a majority of caucusgoers in Iowa, providing a big boost to Rick Santorum, while about one in five New Hampshire primary voters identify as evangelical or born-again Christians.
Nearly half - 47 percent - of Iowa caucusgoers described themselves as "very conservative," compared with about one in five New Hampshire primary voters. About half of New Hampshire voters said they were somewhat or very conservative on most political matters, and nearly half said they considered themselves moderate or liberal.
And the Tea Party had less influence here. Nearly two-thirds of Iowa caucusgoers said they supported the Tea Party, while about half of New Hampshire's primary voters said they did.
- 
5:57 P.M. | Scenes From New Hampshire: Santorum's Journey
MERRIMACK, N.H. - Rick Santorum has had one of the more unusual rides of the candidates who joined the six-day sprint to the New Hampshire primary.
He came in exhilarated from his unexpected near-win in Iowa last Tuesday, when he lost to Mitt Romney, the front-runner, by just eight votes.
That showing put relatively high expectations on Mr. Santorum here. He enjoyed a classic Iowa bounce, as voters flocked to his events and he seemed to build up a head of steam.
But he has a high mountain to climb. He had barely been registering in the polls here until recently. And while he garnered considerable attention, it was often because of protests against his opposition to gay rights and abortion rights. While he won points for taking questions from all comers and standing up to the hostility, it is not clear that he won many more votes than he might have. Polls suggest that he will finish near the bottom of the six-man field.
He says that repeating his Iowa performance and coming in second here would be a dream come true - and he has lowered expectations that he might.
He held no public events Tuesday, spurning the usual last-minute appeals at polling places and spending his day instead conducting radio and television interviews - and planning for the battle ahead in South Carolina, where his future appears much brighter.
A rally Monday night at a restaurant in Manchester turned out to be his final public event, and it ended on a downbeat note. He was surrounded by rowdy protesters from Ron Paul's campaign and from the Occupy movement, who jeered at him and shouted: "Bigot!" and "Shame!" His security staff closed ranks around him, his wife and the two of their seven children who accompanied them. During a scuffle, one of his aides and a protester were knocked to the ground.
In his farewell address to the state inside the restaurant, he said he hoped that a strong showing Tuesday night would "give us that boost to show the momentum so that we can go down to South Carolina, kick a little butt down in South Carolina, move on to Florida and keep kicking until we have a strong principled conservative in the model of Ronald Reagan."
Few campaigns are looking as forward to South Carolina as Mr. Santorum's. Polls show him in second place, again behind Mr. Romney. Mr. Santorum has already bought television time in South Carolina, and the state's voters are more hospitable to his brand of conservatism. He will have more money and more staff members, who had to plot strategy here on the fly. They are even looking ahead to Florida, where they are starting to organize county chairmen.
The bare-bones campaign here was not prepared to take advantage of the Iowa bounce. Mr. Santorum spent no advertising money in New Hampshire because it was too late to buy the time, and he had no serious money anyway - and no expectations - before Iowa put him on the map.
The campaign had planned for only small venues in New Hampshire, so when he came roaring in after Iowa, he drew much larger crowds than anyone had been able to plan for. This made his events seem packed, but could create a sense of haphazardness that sometimes worked to his disadvantage.
One night last week, for example, he had reserved the relatively small Belmont restaurant in Manchester for a town-hall-style meeting. But so many people showed up that the fire marshal moved the event outside, to the parking lot, where it was dark and he had to compete for attention with protesters. And Mr. Santorum had no microphone, so few people could hear him.
But Mr. Santorum kept plugging away, and that is what he plans to do in South Carolina.
- 
5:46 P.M. | Exit Polls Show Voters Concerned About National Economy
MANCHESTER, N.H. - The weeklong campaign in New Hampshire shifted dramatically toward a discussion about jobs. 
Exit polls show why this may be. 
According to the polls, New Hampshire voters say they are very concerned with the national economy, while they are feeling solid when it comes to their own finances. 
Over 90 percent are either very (two-thirds) or somewhat (one-quarter) worried about the direction of the nation's economy over the next few years. At the same time, two-thirds say that their own financial situation is holding steady. Fewer than 20 percent say they are falling behind.
Perhaps as a result of this national concern combined with personal security, their primary economic concern is controlling the deficit rather than spending on job growth. 
About three-fifths want to focus on cutting the deficit, even if it limits job growth. The remaining two-fifths would prefer to focus on job growth even if it increases the deficit.
- 
5:45 P.M. | 'The Vest' Goes on Sale
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Act quick! Before it's too late.
Rick Santorum is offering an official "Rick Santorum for President" sweater vest - the kind he's made famous (sort of) during his rise to national attention over the last several weeks.
A page on his campaign Web site says that anyone can get a vest by donating $100 to his campaign before Wednesday.
"Perfect for demonstrating solidarity with true conservatives, this vest is a great way to show your support for Rick," the Web site says. "It's 100% cotton, made in the USA, comes in grey, and is yours for your contribution of $100 or more. Don't let sleeves slow you down - donate today!"
Much has been made of Mr. Santorum's sweater vests as his campaign attire of choice. If he becomes the presidential nominee, they could become all the rage among young wannabe Republicans.
But order carefully - it may be all over by the time you get your sweater.
"Demand has been extremely high for this item," according to Mr. Santorum's site. "Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery."
- 
5:38 P.M. | A First Look at Exit Polls
MANCHESTER, N.H. - How do New Hampshire voters differ from those who cast ballots in Iowa last week?
According to preliminary exit poll results, about 6 in 10 New Hampshire voters call the economy the issue that matters most to them in deciding which candidate to support.
If that pattern holds as more New Hampshire voters explain their voting rationale, then that issue would be far more important than it was in Iowa (42 percent of Iowa caucus voters said the same). About a quarter of New Hampshire voters say the budget deficit is their top issue.
In Iowa, nearly one in four said they were looking most for someone who is a true conservative. Fewer have said the same as they exited polling locations in New Hampshire.
About a third of New Hampshire voters say the candidate quality that matters most to them is the ability to defeat President Obama in November, while about a quarter say the quality is the right experience, and nearly as many say it is a strong moral character.
- 
5:32 P.M. | Obama Advertising in New Hampshire
WASHINGTON - If it's a big Republican primary night, it must be time for another big Barack Obama newspaper ad.
The Obama campaign, fresh from its incursion last week into the Iowa caucuses, which were supposed to be an all-Republican affair, has taken out another giant advertisement, this one on the home page of The Union Leader of Manchester, N.H. Readers who clicked on the home page of the newspaper's Web site - perhaps to check Republican primary news - were treated to a giant mug of President Obama, looking determinedly off into the distance, above this caption: "Only Barack Obama is Fighting for the Middle Class."
If that sounds familiar, it's because the Obama campaign took a similar action last week, when it staked out territory on the home page of The Des Moines Register on the day of the Iowa caucuses, calling the policies of all of the Republicans running for president "terrible."
Meanwhile on Tuesday, a helpful e-mail from the Democratic National Committee to "interested parties" - read reporters - tried to move the bar on the perception of a victory by the front-runner, Mr. Romney. "By anyone's reckoning, Romney should be running away with this thing," Brad Woodhouse, the communications director, said in the e-mail, pointing to Mr. Romney's home in the state and the fact that he "worked and raised a family next door" in Massachusetts. "If Romney doesn't greatly exceed the 32 points he got in his 2008 second-place finish, this will be a loss for him."
- 
5:19 P.M. | A Note of Caution on Pre-Primary Polling 
It's been said a few times in recent weeks, but let's say it again: polls in New Hampshire can be off quite a bit in the days leading up to the nation's first primary.
In the last week, everybody was trying to figure out whether a particular candidate (Rick Santorum) received much of a "bounce" from his very tight-closing tally in Iowa, even though conservatives in New Hampshire tend to be more concerned about fiscal issues than social ones. And indeed, he has gone from about 3 percent on Dec. 30 to the low double digits, but he hasn't moved much in recent days, at least according to the tracking polls.
Of course, several candidates in the G.O.P. field have been sliding up and down, as New Hampshire's potential voters meet and vet the candidates. Some even suspect that the weekend's back-to-back debates helped cement a few voters' choices.
In watching for news out of the exit polls and actual returns tonight, though, hang on to a little of that Granite-spiced suspense. That's what we've learned about New Hampshire from a few previous election cycles - the state's voters love a surprise delivery or two. And that's why polls this late in the game - with sizable pockets of voters undecided or willing to change their mind - can be easily misread, misleading or even behind the curve. (Several of us were joking this week that we all know of people who stop answering their phones in the final days, because they have been inundated with robo-calls from campaigns and survey companies. And questioners from some of these automated polls that are the most frequently deployed, like those from Public Policy Polling or the American Research Group, cannot by law contact cellphones - and cell-only users make up a larger and larger percent of American households, now up to about 31 percent.)
So those are big caveats heading into tonight, backed by the evidence of previous New Hampshire primary stunners. For example, remember how Bill Clinton, who came in second place, emerged as the "Comeback Kid" in 1992 and rendered that year in one simple slogan, "It's the economy, stupid?" And much has been made of how nearly every poll in 2008 showed Barack Obama, the Democratic winner of Iowa's caucuses, several points ahead of Hillary Rodham Clinton in New Hampshire. In fact, she wound up winning the state by a few points.
But a more telling example of polls gone awry can be found among the Republican field of 2008. Late tracking polls showed Mitt Romney with around 30 percent leading into New Hampshire's primary, after Mike Huckabee won Iowa (and he had 13 percent in New Hampshire). But the candidate whose bus often seemed parked in a snowbank outside events in that state day after day - Senator John McCain - was polling in the mid-to-higher 20s.
In the end, Senator McCain pulled 5 points ahead of Mr. Romney, getting 37 percent to Mr. Romney's 32 percent. The senator gained 10 or more points above his showing in the final days of tracking, defying Seabiscuit odds, especially after nearly ignoring Iowa and with South Carolina ahead on the track.
The numbers are a little different this time. According to the latest Suffolk University tracking polls, which included interviews of likely Republican and independent voters Sunday and Monday, Mr. Romney has crept back up and no one in the field is polling as close as Mr. McCain did to Mr. Romney in 2008.
This time around, Suffolk shows that Mr. Romney leads at 37 percent; Ron Paul at 18 percent; Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who probably has clocked the most hours in the state in the last several weeks, up to 16 percent; Rick Santorum at 11 percent; and Newt Gingrich at 9 percent.
Is there a wild card among them? Will the race for second place be more dynamic than it looks? Mr. Santorum, and even Mr. Huntsman, has gotten a lot more attention since Iowa. We'll have to wait a few more hours to find out whether the real votes align with the polls. Meanwhile, we'll be watching the exit polls rolling in, and they may give us some clues.
- 
4:51 P.M. | Things to Keep in Mind While Awaiting Results
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Polls here will remain open for several more hours as the Republican candidates prepare to dash from the state.
Unlike the Iowa contest last week, New Hampshire's is a traditional primary, with voters casting their ballots throughout the day.
Here are a few things to keep in mind as we await the results:
1. A Romney Sweep: Winning both Iowa and New Hampshire is a rare thing and is a key step toward Mitt Romney's Plan A - a quick, decisive capture of the nomination. He also has a Plan B - a long slog to amass delegates - but none of his advisers would deny that they prefer going the first route.
2. Second Place Matters: The expectation that Mr. Romney will win the primary tonight means that there will be as much focus on who comes in second. But look for the big question to be whether the second-place finisher has the resources and the appeal to build on that finish in coming weeks.
3. Victory (or Defeat) Speeches: They matter. Rick Santorum's address after Iowa impressed voters and donors as he headed to New Hampshire. Shrill and bitter speeches rarely work well; neither do speeches that appear to take the process for granted. 
4. Independents Are Key. Exit polls will help answer the question about which candidate is best able to appeal to independents, who often turn out in big numbers in New Hampshire. That could be an important signal for how Mr. Romney, or one of the other candidates, might do against President Obama in the fall.
- 

        
How Romney Won
        
Just Where Are Those Voters?
        
Romney's Lead in New Hampshire Slips in Poll
        
Live Blogging the New Hampshire Debate
        
New Hampshire Debate Live Blog

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (96%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); ABORTION (60%); BUDGETS (60%) live blog; New Hampshire primary; From New Hampshire

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); RON PAUL (78%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



450 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Return of the Repressed

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: How Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry became class warriors. 

 BODY:
In the course of the 2000s, under a tax-cutting, business-friendly Republican administration, middle class paychecks grew much more slowly than the economy as a whole, upward mobility for the poor continued to lag behind parts of Western Europe, and the combination of unfunded tax cuts and deficit spending worsened the country's fiscal picture just as the Baby Boomers were poised to retire. Then came the financial crisis, touched off in part by gross recklessness on Wall Street. Then came the Great Recession, which threw millions of Americans out of work, hit downscale workers much harder than it did the college-educated, and sent the deficit spiraling upward to unprecedented heights.
It was a sequence of events that seemed to call into question certain commonplace Republican assumptions - that what's good for Wall Street is good for America, that marginal tax cuts are a sufficient method of generating broadly shared prosperity, and that supply-side economics usually pays for itself. And many of the candidates for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination have made halting, tentative attempts to respond to these developments. Jon Huntsman has his plan to break up the big banks; Rick Santorum has his mix of family-friendly tax policy and industrial policy; Mitt Romney has his rhetorical emphasis on the middle class and his careful refusal to endorse the kind of upper-bracket income tax cuts that past Republican nominees have championed; and Ron Paul, of course, has his crankish master theory of the entire crisis.
Others, however, have campaigned as though nothing that's happened in the last decade should alter Republican priorities in the slightest. In this view of things, there's nothing wrong with the American economy that can't be fixed by a budget-busting supply-side tax cut, a flat tax, or the combination thereof, and anyone who says differently is just stoking class warfare. This was Tim Pawlenty's message during his short-lived presidential campaign; it was Herman Cain's message during his brief 9-9-9-fueled rise to prominence; and it's been the basic economic platform that both Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry have campaigned on for the last few months.
But even unacknowledged or denied, the reality of our economic situation - and the challenge it poses to certain conservative shibboleths - is too powerful to be buried completely. Which is why I'm not in the least surprised that it's Gingrich and Perry who have led the charge against Romney's record at Bain Capital, borrowing the laziest and most demagogic language of the left in a last-ditch attempt to derail the presumptive nominee. In the absence of a policy agenda that speaks to the interests of the beleaguered middle class and the insecurities of blue-collar America, they have fallen back on the rhetoric of, yes, class warfare, pillorying Romney as a wicked capitalist greedhead who enriched himself at the expense of the people Bain laid off. For men seeking the nomination of a party that champions free market capitalism, it's an extraordinarily cynical gambit. But it's also a deeply telling one: It suggests that the events of the past decade inevitably exert a profound pull even on politicians whose official platforms downplay their significance, and that conservatives who fail to respond intelligently to what should be a populist moment will inevitably end up responding mindlessly instead.

        
The Strengths of Rick Santorum
        
The Battle of the Also-Rans
        
Annals of Liberal Wishful Thinking
        
The Flat Tax Fantasy
        
The Rick Perry Experiment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FAMILY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%) 2012; Domestic Policy; Mitt Romney; Newt Gingrich; Republicans; Rick Perry; Rick Santorum; social mobility; taxes; the deficit; the economy; the great recession; the horse race; the working class

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (73%); RON PAUL (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



451 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman's 'Country First' Slogan

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's attack on Jon Huntsman's service in China backfires. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H.--There is something quietly devastating about the three-day-old slogan of "country first!" that Jon Huntsman's supporters have begun chanting at his rallies and appearances here, including one this morning at a Manchester polling place.
On the surface, the phrase is vapid and sounds a little nativist. (John McCain used it in an entirely different context four years ago.) But the pre-primary debates over the weekend made it clear that the slogan is a reminder of the principal difference between Mr. Huntsman and the front-runner, Mitt Romney: Mr. Huntsman, the Obama administration's former envoy to Beijing, appears to believe what he says. Mr. Romney's latest persona is an off-key imitation of a closed-minded ideologue.
In Saturday night's ABC debate, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Huntsman of implementing the Obama administration's policy in China while "the rest of us on this stage" were trying to elect Republicans and obstruct the administration. The next day, in the NBC debate, Mr. Huntsman roared back, saying he was serving his country in China without regard to the political affiliation of the president.
"I will always put my country first," he said.

And then came one of the most inauthentic lines Mr. Romney has yet delivered, in a campaign full of them: "I think we serve our country first by standing for people who believe in conservative principles and doing everything in our power to promote an agenda that does not include President Obama's agenda," he said. In other words, ideology first. Politics first. Obstructionism first.
That of course is the rallying cry of the freshman class in the House, and of the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, who memorably said his first principle was defeating the president. But that single-minded goal, producing stalemate and acrimony, has become odious to the large majority of Americans who regularly tell pollsters how little they now think of Congress.
To all but the most dead-end Tea Partiers, it was a significant misstep by Mr. Romney, and Mr. Huntsman quickly seized on it. "This nation is divided," he said, "because of attitudes like that." He made an ad out of that moment in the debate, and quickly raised $100,000 to air it. The polls show him moving up.
It's hard to see a path from New Hampshire to the nomination for Mr. Huntsman. His economic platform would be only slightly less damaging to the future than Mr. Romney's (he is willing to consider higher tax revenue), and he is a staunch social conservative. But whatever happens after today's primary vote, he will be remembered for cutting through Mr. Romney's expensive armor and exposing the hollow core within.

        
Eggs Aren't People

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CONSERVATISM (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%) Jon Huntsman; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012



452 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: With Enough Bandwidth, Many Join the Band

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
When Dr. John McClure, a pathologist in Edina, Minn., was pondering his wish list several years ago, he added something a little out of the ordinary: learn to play the bagpipes. But his goal seemed like a long shot after a friend who had been teaching him moved away.
Now he is getting lessons from a top-tier teacher -- Jori Chisholm, whose resume includes a first-place award at the 2010 Cowal Highland Gathering in Dunoon, Scotland. Mr. Chisholm lives in Seattle, but distance is no longer a problem -- Dr. McClure now takes lessons over Skype.
They even squeeze in a lesson sometimes when Dr. McClure, 50, is at work, though he keeps the noise down by using a practice chanter, essentially a pipe without a bag. ''I've been on call, waiting for a specimen from the O.R., and I'll do a lesson with Jori,'' Dr. McClure said. 
Skype and other videochat programs have transformed the simple phone call, but the technology is venturing into a new frontier: it is upending and democratizing the world of music lessons.
Students who used to limit the pool of potential teachers to those within a 20-mile radius from their homes now take lessons from teachers -- some with world-class credentials -- on other coasts or continents. The list of benefits is long: Players of niche instruments now have more access to teachers. Parents can simply send their child down the hall for lessons rather than driving them. And teachers now have a new way to build their business.
''I've seen videos of individuals teaching students all over the world,'' said Gary Ingle, chief executive of the Music Teachers National Association. ''There will be people who would never take a music lesson unless it's done online. As music teachers, we should be willing to meet students where they are.''
There is no data on the number of video music lessons, and many people certainly will prefer face-to-face lessons. But many music teachers said in interviews that they were conducting more lessons over broadband connections.
Jeffrey Thomas, who has taught in music stores near Seattle for 22 years, now teaches guitar, bass and ukulele to 30 students over Skype and other webcam programs. If he gets 10 more students, he said, he will teach entirely from home, saving the money he now pays to rent studio space. ''If you have a lesson at 4, and traffic won't let you make it until 4:10, you just lost 10 minutes,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''Having to get to this location to be in a lesson is now obsolete. There's no need for it.''
Parents are also driving the shift to webcam music lessons. After Susan Patterson grew tired of taking her 13-year-old daughter, Taylor, 45 minutes each way for violin lessons, she e-mailed 15 violin teachers with Web sites.
''There were some that were not advertising for Skype, but I proposed it to them,'' said Mrs. Patterson, who was homeschooling her three children in Jane Lew, W. Va., before a recent move to Boykins, Va. ''Out of the 15, 5 were willing and able to do the lessons.''
''It's accessibility with quality,'' she said.
Videochat has created new opportunities for older students, too. Ken Tucker, 67, a retired lawyer in Simsbury, Conn., figured he might have a hard time finding someone to teach him the bagpipes. ''It used to be an adult learner couldn't get a teacher, because people didn't want to bother with someone who didn't have a future,'' he said. Now he has a lesson every Wednesday morning with Donald F. Lindsay, a professional piper in Petersburgh, N.Y., who also has a few students in their late 70s, including a 79-year-old student in Islip, N.Y.
The convenience of online learning means fewer missed lessons, said Nick Antonaccio, the owner of Rockfactory, a 10-room music studio in Newtown, Pa., that has 200 students, 25 of whom do some lessons remotely.
''People who do online lessons end up doing a more consistent lesson schedule,'' he said. ''They don't have to fight snowstorms. They don't have to take an hour a day to get to us. Other things don't conflict, like baseball games.'' And most lessons are recorded so students can play them back while practicing, Mr. Antonaccio said.
However, many parents remain wary of laptop lessons. Their chief reservation is that teachers can't manipulate a student's fingers to fine-tune the subtleties of playing a string instrument. ''A lot of people don't trust that the experience is the same,'' said Mr. Antonaccio, who's offered online lessons in violin, piano, and guitar since 2004. Even so, he said, ''We have had kids that have grown up and learned to play entirely on camera.''
Lessons over the home computer can create headaches of their own, though. Joey Potuzak, 17, a guitarist in Mountlake Terrace, Wash., occasionally yelled at his family because the webcam connection required so much bandwidth. ''I'd tell everyone in my house, 'I'm having a guitar lesson. Everyone off the computers!' '' Mr. Potuzak said. ''They were annoyed.'' His family has since upgraded the Internet connection in their home.
Music teachers are finding that video lessons offer them some more stability for a profession that is known for its ups and downs. Laurel Thomsen, a violin and viola instructor, held on to all of her Skype students when she moved recently from Monterey, Calif., to Santa Cruz. ''Less and less are in-person people, and more and more are Skype people contacting me,'' she said.
Video is also creating new opportunities for tech-savvy teachers to build a business in this struggling economy. This year, after Matt Dahlberg, 22, a student at Edmonds Community College known as the Jumping Flea, graduates, he hopes he will be able to support himself and his fiancee, a nursing student, mostly by teaching ukulele via Skype.
''I'm constantly turning people down, because I can't give as many lessons as I'd like to give because I'm still in school,'' said Mr. Dahlberg, whose nickname is the literal translation of ukulele, a Hawaiian word.
He has 18 students, ranging in age from 6 to 50-something, including Karen Siebert, 57, a software developer from Cedar Grove, N.J., who discovered Mr. Dahlberg on YouTube, where thousands of people have viewed his videos, including his cover of Bon Jovi's ''Livin' on a Prayer.''
''He's a baby, but he plays phenomenal,'' Ms. Siebert said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Wednesday with the continuation of an article about the way Skype and other videochat programs are transforming music lessons misspelled part of the name of the hometown of a student shown playing the guitar. As the article correctly noted, he lives in Mountlake Terrace, Wash. -- not in Montlake Terrace.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. John McClure practiced the bagpipes in Edina, Minn., while his teacher, Jori Chisholm, watched online from Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. C. WORLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Joey Potuzak, 17, using Skype to take guitar lessons at his family's home in Montlake Terrace, Washington, near Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIEMARIE MUSSELMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC (89%); BANDWIDTH (87%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BROADBAND (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012



453 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: A Survivor of Haiti's Quake, and Now of Leukemia, Too

BYLINE: By MARVIN ANDERSON

 BODY:
In a faint voice, Danielo Morpeau, who is still learning English and speaks with a slight Haitian accent, read two of the first words he learned while living in New York: ''melatonin,'' to aid sleep, and ''Celexa,'' to treat depression.
Danielo, 14, sitting on a futon in his family's living room in Queens, had pulled out his small brown prescription bottles from beneath a table. He has leukemia, which, his father said, manifested itself after the family left Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in the wake of the January 2010 earthquake that ravaged the country.
''It began with a cough,'' Danielo's father, Paul Eddy Morpeau, 47, said. ''We're from Haiti, where it's rarely cold, and we thought it was normal after living in New York.'' 
But the coughing, which began in September 2010, six months after the family's arrival in Queens, only grew, and Danielo became weaker.
''He never got better,'' Mr. Morpeau said. ''Only worse.''
After two months of continual coughing and a growing fatigue, Danielo had blood tests at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center. When the results came back, in December 2010, he was rushed on doctors' orders to the hospital.
''I remember that day,'' Mr. Morpeau said. ''I was at work and I left immediately to the hospital. We were told he had cancer.''
With a few hugs, kisses and tears, Mr. Morpeau, his wife, Benodette Morpeau, and their daughter, Ondine, watched as Danielo was taken into isolation for treatment.
''I could only take my Bible with me,'' Danielo recalled.
He spent seven months getting treatment as his family, wrapped in sterile clothes from head to toe, remained by his side and prayed for his recovery.
The process was grueling, Ms. Morpeau, 47, said as she, too, sat on the futon, which serves as Danielo's bed and is next to a small folding cot where Ondine, 16, sleeps.
Ms. Morpeau began crying as she looked through pictures of Danielo in the hospital. He was unconscious in nearly all the photos. He was also bald and skinny, with tubes protruding from his arms and nose. His sister is sitting next to him in one photo, watching. That is all they could do for months, Ms. Morpeau said.
''I came with my sick son and every day he's getting worse,'' she said she remembers thinking to herself. ''We didn't come here expecting to have a sick son.''
It was an ordeal to watch him suffer in a new country while he was unable to communicate, said Ms. Morpeau, who speaks Creole and French. It was also challenging to live someplace that did not feel like home, she said.
The Morpeaus are coping with haunting memories of the earthquake as they try to build a new life in a one-bedroom apartment that sits atop a church. Ms. Morpeau had been a teacher when her school crumbled in the quake. Mr. Morpeau had worked as a network administrator for the nonprofit organization CARE Ayiti. When they arrived in Queens, they struggled to find work and pay rent. That was all overshadowed by Danielo's illness.
But his parents said the reason he had the opportunity to beat cancer was because he was in the United States.
''Cancer is a death sentence in Haiti,'' Mr. Morpeau said. ''There's no hope.''
The Morpeaus came to the United States with the intention of applying for the temporary protected status given to Haitians after the earthquake, which they received.
The mother and sister of Mr. Morpeau live in Far Rockaway, Queens, but he said he could not rely on relatives for financial help during Danielo's treatment. ''Many families were stretched,'' said Sylviane Mauriol, the family's caseworker at Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She added, ''It was about means and the state of the economy.''
But the Morpeaus did get emotional support from their relatives and a Haitian earthquake survivors support group created by caseworkers at Catholic Charities. Danielo's homecoming from the hospital in July, however, did not put an end to the family's challenges. Mr. Morpeau had lost his job around that time because his employment authorization card had expired.
The family, ineligible for public assistance or benefits, had relied solely on Mr. Morpeau's income from his security job at Kennedy International Airport to pay the $800 rent. But the family fell behind. Ms. Mauriol used $400 in Neediest Cases money to pay half the back rent, while Catholic Charities paid the balance.
''It's not easy for us,'' Mr. Morpeau said, ''and that money was very helpful.''
The creators of the Haitian support group, Lystra Madoo-Devine and John Woolley, helped Mr. Morpeau find another job as a security officer after he renewed his employment authorization card. Ms. Morpeau is attending a home health aide program in Brooklyn.
Danielo's leukemia is in remission, but he continues to get therapy, covered by the state's Child Health Plus insurance program. He now has a full head of hair, and is attending Intermediate School 238.
The rest of the Morpeaus are doing better, too, as they strive to help those left behind in Haiti.
''We have hope and each other,'' Mr. Morpeau said. ''God helps us. God can do anything.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Wednesday about a family that left Haiti after the earthquake in 2010 and settled in Queens, where they discovered that a son had leukemia and later received financial assistance from Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, referred imprecisely to the family's immigration status. While the federal government did give the family the temporary protected status offered to Haitians after the earthquake, it did so only after the family arrived in the United States and applied for the status. The family did not immigrate ''under'' that program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Eddy and Benodette Morpeau in their Queens home with their son, Danielo, who was treated for leukemia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $ 5,544,083, Recorded Monday 433,960, Total $5,978,043, Last year to date $5,563,717 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEUKEMIA (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (77%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PACKAGING (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); DEPRESSION (72%); RELIGION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



454 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: In South Carolina, Challenges Await on Ideology and Faith

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney has now defied a generation of political gravity, doing what no non-incumbent Republican has done since the Iowa caucuses became a key part of the campaign in the 1970s, winning the one-two states of Iowa and New Hampshire in his quest for the party's presidential nomination.
But on Wednesday, Mr. Romney's plane will deliver him to the tougher proving ground of South Carolina for a crucial test.
It will be there -- a place famous for surfacing the dark undercurrents of American politics -- that he has the opportunity to show he can overcome doubts among evangelicals and Tea Party adherents about his ideological commitment and assume leadership of a party that has spent the last two years under the sway of a conservative insurgency. 
If he succeeds, it will be a triumph of political rebranding, a long effort by Mr. Romney to leave behind a past that includes former support for abortion rights and authorship of a health care plan that helped inspire President Obama's.
A Republican Party whose more energetic precincts have been gripped throughout the Obama presidency by a desire to expel moderates and upend the establishment will have put itself in the hands of a candidate who, more than anyone in the race, comes out of a moderate, establishment Republican tradition.
But to get there -- or get there without a protracted battle -- he will have to fend off efforts by his rivals in South Carolina to emerge as the singular anti-Romney candidate.
With little left to lose, Newt Gingrich and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas are already assailing him as a heartless job killer in South Carolina, a state hit far harder by the economic downturn than Iowa and New Hampshire were.
But just fending off that attack may not be enough. He is also heading smack into an issue that has followed him through his national political career: his Mormon faith and the suspicion many evangelical Christians have of it.
''It's going to be difficult for Romney as a Mormon with the evangelical community,'' said the Rev. Franklin Graham, son of the Rev. Billy Graham. ''For most Christians, Mormonism is an issue and he has a hurdle here that he's going to have to jump over and navigate around if he can.''
But the barely hidden glee of the Romney campaign when Mr. Perry decided to stay in the race after performing badly in Iowa, to fight another day in South Carolina, betrayed another lucky factor that has helped give the Romney team confidence in the state: In the absence of a successful effort by any of his rivals to rally evangelical voters behind just one of them, the cast of candidates vying for the anti-Romney religious vote is promising to carve it up into smaller pieces.
Mr. Perry made a point of appealing to evangelical voters with a giant prayer rally in Texas shortly before he announced his presidential campaign and has shown crosses in his advertisements; Mr. Gingrich, who is on his third marriage and third religion, has visited with pastors to assure them of his new but deep Roman Catholicism and his apologies to God. And now Rick Santorum is planning to campaign hard in the northern part of South Carolina because ''that's where much of the evangelical vote is,'' said former Representative J. Gresham Barrett of South Carolina, a supporter and adviser.
So it is with acute interest that Mr. Romney's aides are keeping their eye on a meeting of major evangelical leaders to be held this week in Texas, where there has been some talk of a move to coalesce around a single conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
Gary L. Bauer, president of American Values and one of the organizers, said Tuesday in an interview, ''We're not forming some alliance to stop somebody else that's competing for the nomination,'' adding, ''the only person in that room the people want to stop is Barack Obama from having a second term.''
Mr. Bauer, it happens, will be supporting Mr. Santorum, whom he endorsed and campaigned with last week. But Mr. Bauer said the meeting would include advocates ''for all of the candidates, including Romney.'' Mr. Romney's advocates are expected to be working the room aggressively.
Yet if evangelical voters hold sway in South Carolina, so does the Tea Party, for which resistance to Mr. Obama's health care overhaul -- so much like the one Mr. Romney signed into law in Massachusetts as governor -- was a main ingredient. Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina was a leading advocate for the movement on Capitol Hill and in the 2010 elections. Mr. DeMint will probably not be repeating his endorsement of Mr. Romney from 2008, but spoke approvingly of him on ''The Mark Levin Show'' on Tuesday night.
A onetime Tea Party favorite, Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, has endorsed him, a move that has puzzled and angered many in her base. Her endorsement may hurt her as much as it helps Mr. Romney, but it also highlights how small-government conservatives as well as evangelicals continue to have their doubts about Mr. Romney.
Despite the Romney campaign's optimism that he has overcome much of the suspicion among evangelicals based on his faith and some of his former views on issues like abortion, those positions are likely to get a new focus as he comes to South Carolina with the nomination in sight. To address the doubts, Mr. Romney and his surrogates are seeking to emphasize values over religious denomination.
In his previous campaign, Mr. Romney hosted evangelical leaders including the Rev. Jerry Falwell, Franklin Graham, Mr. Bauer and roughly a dozen others in his Boston-area living room, speaking about his commitment to his policy proposals and assuring them about his faith in Jesus. He spoke publicly about his faith in a late 2007 speech in College Station, Tex. -- his version of John F. Kennedy's 1960 address on Catholicism.
This year, his campaign has been content to let the issue lie, not calling too much attention to it lest it distract from his hyperfocus on the economy, which is particularly bad in South Carolina, the hardest-hit state on the campaign trail so far. Aides say the Mormon issue is not as potent as it once was.
''He really came on the scene in 2007 as virtually unknown around the country, so there were a lot of efforts in the last cycle to introduce him to conservative groups and social conservative groups, and religious groups,'' said Mark DeMoss, a senior adviser who is evangelical. He added, ''I would say this to any evangelical group in America: our country would benefit from a good dose of Mormon values, and I don't think that's something we ought to apologize for or feel we have to explain away.''
He defined those values as ''family and marriage and hard work ethic and character and integrity,'' the same buzzwords Mr. Romney's campaign has been using to define him in recent days as South Carolina looms. Also, aides acknowledge, a national advertising campaign from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, not connected to Mr. Romney, portraying Mormons as everyday Americans has further helped demystify the religion.
Mr. Graham said that he does ''not agree with Mormon teaching'' but respected ''their strong values, their moral code.'' He said he does not consider the faith a liability in a president and neither would others, but Mr. Romney would help himself if he were ''to get on the road and meet with as many church leaders as he can.''
Whether all of the threatening forces rise up against him in the next 10 days remains to be seen. The Rev. Brad Atkins, president of the South Carolina Baptist Convention, said that many of the state's voters are ''so beaten down'' by the economy that they are not likely voting so much on issues like Mormonism, if they even vote at all.
Then again, South Carolina has a proud tradition of political strategists who know how to build an opposition (it is, after all, where Senator John McCain of Arizona was falsely accused of fathering an African-American child out of wedlock in 2000). And this go-round, Mr. Romney has yet to face the sort of bare-knuckled campaign tactics employed with such precision there.
''One thing about South Carolina: it's kind of like football,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''It's a full-contact sport.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A news analysis article on Wednesday about the challenges facing Mitt Romney in the South Carolina primary misstated the history of Republicans who have won both of their party's first two nominating contests, in Iowa and New Hampshire. No non-incumbent Republican has done it since the Iowa caucuses became a key part of the campaign in the 1970s; it is not the case that it happened in 1976, when Gerald R. Ford won both Iowa and New Hampshire. (Though not elected to the presidency, he was indeed an incumbent that year.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newt Gingrich, at his campaign rally at the Radisson Hotel in Manchester, N.H., after voting results were announced Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rick Santorum and his wife, Karen, in Manchester on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHART: N.H. Primary Results: PERCENT REPORTING 92% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (85%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); ABORTION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK PERRY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012



455 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Looks to Luxury Cars for Higher Profit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- After a humbling bankruptcy and $50 billion government bailout in 2009, General Motors has rebounded with steady profits and a fresh lineup of competitive vehicles.
But the next stage of the comeback poses new challenges for the nation's largest automaker as it tries to make up for lost time when it suspended many of its product programs. The company started to catch up last year by turning out new small cars and mainstream sport utility vehicles. Now G.M. is focusing on beefing up its roster of higher-profit, luxury models for its Buick and Cadillac divisions.
On Tuesday, G.M.'s strategy was on display here at the North American International Auto Show when it presented a new small Buick S.U.V. called the Encore that goes on sale next year. Earlier, G.M. introduced the much-anticipated Cadillac ATS, a compact sedan intended to compete with top-selling luxury models from BMW and Mercedes-Benz. 
While G.M.'s sales in the United States increased 13 percent last year, its executives acknowledge that more growth was needed to improve profits in the coming year. With Europe and other international markets in the doldrums, G.M. is under pressure to further broaden its product lineup and increase margins in its home market.
''We are making our money here in the U.S., and we're going to have to keep doing it,'' said Mark L. Reuss, president of G.M.'s North American division.
Luxury cars like the Cadillac ATS can provide thousands of dollars more in profit than a more mainstream product.
Mr. Reuss said that expanding the Buick and Cadillac brands was essential to improving G.M.'s overall results. G.M. is also introducing a full-size Cadillac sedan this year, as well as a compact Buick called the Verano.
Industry analysts were impressed by the quality and design of the new G.M. entries on display in Detroit, but questioned whether their incremental sales would be enough to increase the bottom line.
''They're really nice products, but can they sell enough to bring in the revenue?'' asked Ron Harbour, head of the automotive unit of the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. ''What they really need is to sell more of the volume products like the Silverado pickup and the Chevrolet Malibu midsize sedan.''
G.M.'s big crosstown rival, the Ford Motor Company, is also increasingly dependent on the American market to contribute the bulk of its profits. But Ford avoided bankruptcy and continued to invest in new vehicles, even when the economy soured.
In addition, Ford's reputation soared with consumers because -- unlike G.M. and Chrysler -- it was able to survive without financial help from American taxpayers.
''By not going into Chapter 11, we were able to preserve our product-cycle plan, keep our management team intact, and maintain continuity,'' said Lewis Booth, Ford's chief financial officer. ''We never missed a beat.''
G.M. has tried hard to distance itself from the bailout by the Obama administration. Its 2010 public stock offering took away some of the stigma of being ''Government Motors.''
But the Treasury Department still owns 26 percent of the company. And because G.M.'s stock price has been mired in the low $20s after going public at $33 a share, the government has been reluctant to sell the remaining stake at a loss.
So G.M. is now in the position of relying on North American profit to carry the company financially and convince investors it deserves a better stock price.
Although G.M. sales are growing globally, the company's chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, said he is more focused on improving financial results than simply adding sales around the world.
''We need to focus on profits and margins and not necessarily try to post numbers on the board,'' he told reporters at the auto show.
G.M. has had seven consecutive profitable quarters, through the third quarter of last year, which was its last reporting period. But the year ahead will be tough because virtually all automakers are looking to earn much of their profits in the resurgent American market.
No one will be pulling harder for G.M.'s success than President Obama, who counts the rescues of G.M. and Chrysler among the successes of his administration's economic policies.
As if to underscore the importance of Detroit's revival to the administration, three cabinet secretaries -- commerce, energy and transportation -- were among the visitors to the media previews at the auto show this week.
G.M. executives, however, seemed to be weary of questions about the government's role in its comeback and the taxpayers' continued ownership stake in the company.
Mr. Reuss said he was concerned that the G.M. bailout would be constantly resurrected as a political issue in this year's presidential election.
''The only thing I can control,'' he said, ''is the performance of North America with great products, great pricing and disciplined production.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Reuss, head of G.M.'s North American unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE CASSESE/REUTERS) (B1)
 General Motors presented a small Buick sport utility vehicle, called the Encore, at the auto show in Detroit on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRISO GENTSCH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SEDANS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



456 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth F. Stribling

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Ms. Stribling, 67, is the president and a founder of Stribling & Associates, a real estate brokerage and marketing firm based in New York.
The company, which was started in 1980, specializes in high-end residential properties, including developments like the Plaza Private Residences and the Devonshire House in Greenwich Village.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. What kind of year did you have in 2011?
A. People were generally nervous -- nervous about buying -- and so there was a lot of hand-holding, but it was a steady market. There were a lot of higher-end sales. I don't think that the overall market was a lot stronger in 2011 than it was in 2010.
Q. Can you provide any numbers?
A. It's hard to measure, because for us at Stribling, 2010 was a very strong year.
Q. What's your outlook for 2012?
A. I'm cautiously optimistic. It's probably going to be a fairly flat year, much like 2011. There are too many fears about the global economy that will keep a temper on things. On the other hand, I have to tell you the demand is out there for new development offerings.
Q. Which new developments are you involved with right now?
A. We're working on a building at 130 West 12th Street, which is a conversion of a 1920s building being developed by the Rudin family. In the two months that we've had it on, we sold 32 out of the 42 units.
We just finished the Devonshire House at 28 East 10th Street. We've got about three apartments left in that building. We had 62 units there. They came on in various stages, and in each stage we sold them out in about four to six months. And we also just finished the sky lofts at 145 Hudson Street.
We're now embarking on three projects on the Upper East Side in the 70s and 80s. The developers on one are the developers of the Devonshire House, and the developers on the other -- I'm really not at liberty to say until it's officially announced. We've got another project in the works at Henry Street on the corner of Dumbo and Brooklyn Heights that will open up this spring, and we've got one in the East 50s on the design table that will be opening up in 2013.
Q. You sound really busy.
A. I never quite understood this idea of a shadow inventory -- supposedly the apartments that hadn't been leased in developments. I thought, well, when the market turned down, they will be rented and they'll come on slowly -- which is exactly what's happening now. The demand for new product and the latest is really out there.
Q. What do buyers want?
A. They're looking for simplicity of life, and what that means is not all the bells and whistles of amenities but simply apartments that have a good layout and good clean lines. People want simple or elegant.
Q. Where are the strongest markets in New York?
A. We saw a lot of action on the West Side and downtown, and the demand for Brooklyn continues. Probably the neighborhood that is the least in favor right now is the Upper East Side, especially the far east 80s and 90s.
Q. Where are the emerging neighborhoods?
A. The area that used to be called the Garment Center -- there are a lot of lofts down there that people are buying. I think that Chinatown is burgeoning into NoLIta. And certainly Wall Street in terms of being populated by residential dwellers. Where we did a lot of sales is around the High Line. The High Line was very, very hot.
Q. Are you seeing a lot of foreign interest?
A. Generally, you have a solid base of about 15 percent of the buyers; now probably one-third of all the condominium deals we do are with foreigners. The Russians are looking for trophy properties. The Chinese are looking for pieds-a-terre near universities for their college-age kids. The Brazilians are looking for something around the High Line, kind of glamorous.
Q. Do you deal with many celebrity clients?
A. On my birth certificate my middle name is Elizabeth French Stribling. In my professional life it's Elizabeth Discretion Stribling.
Q. Is your family French?
A. My grandmother's maiden name was ''French,'' so it's a family name. Interestingly enough, I'm the chairman of the French Heritage Society, a great Francophile. I have a home in the south of France and an apartment in Paris. I speak French and it's just, perhaps, a happy coincidence.
Q. I understand you're also an excellent French cook.
A. I studied with Marcella Hazan, Julia Child, Simone Beck, James Beard -- they gave me private lessons. Julia Child made fabulous chocolate cakes glazed in dark chocolate. She made one with crushed nuts in it and sprinkled with bourbon. She liked bourbon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



457 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 335 words

PERSON: Stanley Kwan 

HEADLINE: Stanley Kwan, 86, Creator of the Hang Seng Index

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stanley Kwan, a banker whose 1969 creation, the Hang Seng index, became a widely used gauge for the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, died on Dec. 31 in Toronto. He was 86. 
His death was confirmed by the R. S. Kane Funeral Home.
The Hang Seng index is ''the ultimate capitalist measure of Hong Kong,'' Robert Nield, president of the Hong Kong branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, wrote in a foreword to Mr. Kwan's 2008 book, ''The Dragon and the Crown: Hong Kong Memoirs.''
Mr. Kwan, who joined Hang Seng Bank in 1962, saw the index he created mirror the growth pains of Hong Kong. It crashed during the 1974 world oil crisis and the 1983 impasse between China and Britain over the handover of Hong Kong, and it benefited from the opening up of the Chinese mainland.
The index's 48 members now include Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the world's largest lender by market value, and the PetroChina Company, Asia's biggest company by market value.
As Mr. Kwan recalled in his book, the bank's chairman, Ho Sin Hang, and general manager, Q. W. Lee, decided late in 1969 ''that they needed a measure of the performance of the stock market for their own as well as their customers' reference.'' Mr. Ho, he said, spoke of creating the ''Dow Jones industrial average of Hong Kong.''
Mr. Kwan, who headed the bank's research department, worked with a staff of seven to create the Hang Seng index and consulted government and university statisticians and economists. The index made its debut on Nov. 24, 1969.
Stanley Shih Kuang Kwan was born on Jan. 10, 1925, in Hong Kong to a banking family, according to the funeral home. A survivor of the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong during World War II, he was a wartime interpreter for United States troops in mainland China before starting his banking career.
His survivors include two daughters.
Mr. Kwan, who retired to Canada, was humble about his place in history.
''If I walked into the Hang Seng Bank head office today,'' he told The Toronto Star in 2010, ''no one would know me.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (73%); WORLD WAR II (62%)

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (91%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (69%); HANG SENG BANK LTD (57%)

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (91%); PTR (NYSE) (69%); K3OD (SGX) (69%); 0857 (HKSE) (69%); 0011 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) HONG KONG (95%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



458 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: Moving Up in America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Harder for Americans to Rise From Economy's Lower Rungs'' (front page, Jan. 5):
America's stalled mobility is not only disheartening -- it also challenges our sense of national identity and is a threat to economic prosperity. The Horatio Alger ideal that someone born poor can, through hard work, become rich is the quintessential American promise. But for the most part it is a pipe dream. 
The same Pew study cited in the article shows that in the last generation, only about 6 out of 100 poor children actually struck it big.
''Movin' on up'' is especially hard for children born poor and black, or poor and female. Black children of poor parents are half as likely as their white counterparts to become rich. They also face a much greater risk of slipping down the economic ladder: 45 percent of black children of solidly middle-income parents ended up poor, compared with 16 percent of white children.
And despite the enormous strides women have made in the world of work, daughters of poor families were more likely to remain poor than sons (47 and 35 percent, respectively).
Education and the neighborhood where a child grows up play a huge role in determining economic success, as does family background.
What can be done? We must strengthen community colleges, where most poor children who get an education beyond high school do so; encourage partnerships between employers and community colleges; and improve economic opportunities in poor neighborhoods.
To improve mobility we must get the American jobs machine working again, creating the middle-class jobs that are the foundation of our nation's greatness.
ANGELA GLOVER BLACKWELL Oakland, Calif., Jan. 7, 2012
The writer is the founder and chief executive of PolicyLink, a nonprofit research and action institute that advances economic and social equity.
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for our Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Ms. Blackwell's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SARAH WILLIAMSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



459 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DE GUSTIBUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Meatless In the Midwest: A Tale Of Survival

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
IN an ideal world, vegetarians would be built like camels. Not humpbacked, of course, but able to sustain themselves through long stretches by tapping stored energy reserves, like previously consumed soy products.
But after the first three dinners in my new hometown, where I moved from New York to cover the Midwest for this newspaper, even this veteran vegetarian was flagging.
This city, after all, is celebrated as a Mecca of meat. And any newcomer should expect to start with a tour of the most venerable purveyors of cows, pigs and chickens in what I've been told are their most delicious forms.
So, yes, I've ''eaten'' at some of these famous restaurants. There was the meal at the Golden Ox steakhouse (baked potato), Stroud's fried chicken (rolls) and Arthur Bryant's barbecue, where, searching for vegetarian options on the menu, skipping over the lard-bathed French fries, pausing to consider the coleslaw, I ordered the safest option (a mug of Budweiser). 
After three days of this, starving, I went alone to the nearest Chinese restaurant I could find, where I feasted on a steaming plate of meatless mapo tofu.
It should be stated right up front that the Midwest, with its rich culture, stark natural beauty and superlative decency, quickly defies stereotypes. Living in the middle of the country is very different from living in the middle of nowhere.
But make no mistake: meat-loving is one stereotype that the region wears with pride. Lard still plays a starring role in many kitchens, bacon comes standard in salads, and perhaps the most important event on Kansas City social calendars is a barbecue contest.
Even though the region boasts some of the finest farmland in the world, there is a startling lack of fresh produce here. This is a part of the country -- and there's no polite way to put this -- where the most common vegetable you'll see on dinner plates is iceberg lettuce.
''The mentality of the Midwest is, green is garnish,'' explained Heidi Van Pelt-Belle, who runs Fud, a vegetarian restaurant in Kansas City.
As a result, many heartland vegetarians say that eating, that most essential activity, can be a constant struggle. Longtime members of the club recall the days when doctors and family members alike warned that forgoing meat would result in serious malnutrition. This was not hyperbole to those who, lacking other options, subsisted on pizza.
Over the years, many have learned tricks, like calling ahead to a restaurant to negotiate a special entree. Dinner party? Best to eat first, knowing that side dishes might be the only options. Some say they have learned to cook for themselves more, to avoid the inevitable barrage of questions, if not outright mockery, that comes with eating in public.
Just outside Iowa City, Sparti's Gyros taunts vegetarians even as it caters to them. The menu includes the Greek Veggie Wheat Pita, but adds a punch line: ''For people who just don't like eating. Put some meat on it!''
In Nebraska, a place where cattle outnumber people, vegetarians are sometimes accused of undermining the state economy. The owner of what was billed as the lone vegetarian restaurant in Omaha said it had several pounds of ground beef thrown at its doors shortly after opening. After a short run, it closed last year.
''Being a vegetarian in Nebraska is like being a Republican in Brooklyn -- less of an outcast than a novelty,'' said David Rosen, who became a vegetarian as a teenager in Omaha and is now a writer in Brooklyn. ''Except that you don't have to prepare special meals for Republicans.''
But around the Midwest, the situation has improved, vegetarians acknowledge, not least because hummus inexplicably has joined Tater Tots as standard bar fare. There are two fully vegetarian restaurants in Kansas City, and most restaurants in the bigger cities of the region offer at least one vegetarian-friendly option.
There are all sorts of compelling reasons people become vegetarian. Health. Discomfort with the killing of animals. Environmental concerns.
My own reason requires no soapbox. I never liked meat. And when I learned, while eating a burger at the cafeteria of the American Museum of Natural History at age 5, that ''meat'' was actually a euphemism for -- and even dedicated carnivores hate being reminded of this -- muscle, I felt my preference had received a hearty endorsement from common sense. Over time, even chicken stock disappeared from my diet.
Friends and family members have regarded my status as a vegetarian with curiosity and amusement over the years. But even with that practice I was unprepared for the barrage of jokes that followed the announcement of my assignment covering the Midwest -- some playing on the theme of squandered opportunity (how could someone turn down all that delicious barbecue?) and others hinting at concerns about survival (are you sure you know what you're getting yourself into?).
There is, both here and elsewhere, something about being a vegetarian in Kansas City that simply strikes people as funny.
In truth, it is less satisfying to be a vegetarian here. Those on the coasts have it better. Like many of my brethren, I have instinctively gravitated to cuisine from faraway places where meat is a luxury not all can afford. In New York this meant frequenting terrific Indian, Thai, Ethiopian, Lebanese and Venezuelan restaurants. But here -- with a notable few exceptions like the Aladdin (the best lentil soup I've ever had), Blue Koi (expert dumplings and noodle dishes) and Lill's (terrific Spanish tapas) -- the best options are better described as good enough.
To be fair, that is probably more than can be said for my cooking, which typically consists of simple batches of rice and beans large enough to sustain a week of protein-rich lunches. And my attempts to teach myself to make my favorite Indian dishes have had the unintended effect of making the local Indian restaurants that I had thought lacking suddenly appear more palatable.
But most difficulty comes on the road during reporting trips in an area that stretches from Oklahoma to North Dakota. And though many meals, particularly in small towns, are of the bread-and-water variety, I have stumbled upon some decent restaurants as well: Japanese in Tulsa, Okla.; Indian in Lincoln, Neb.; Ethiopian in Sioux Falls, S.D.; Italian in Minot, N.D.; and, my favorite place to stop on a reporting trip, Thai Spice, just outside Joplin, Mo.
Along the way I've also picked up a few valuable lessons for vegetarians roaming these wide open spaces. In no particular order: check out Web sites detailing the vegetarian options at fast-food chains; look for Chinese restaurants, which consistently turn up in the most unexpected places; carry a jar of peanut butter everywhere; and never underestimate the potato -- what it lacks in flavor it makes up for in ubiquity.
And, finally, it is important to not forget that hunger is the price a picky eater must be willing to pay without becoming insufferable.
During a recent visit to the Ranchito Tex-Mex Cafe in Hugoton, Kan., a small community encircled by feedlots packed with cattle and the plants that process them, I inquired if the beans at the restaurant were prepared with meat.
''There's no meat,'' the waitress replied helpfully. ''It's just pinto beans smashed up with lard.''
Lard, of course, is rendered pork fat.
A day later and a day hungrier, a waitress at the Down-Town Restaurant in nearby Ulysses was more understanding and forthcoming about ingredients. The beans had lard. The rice had chicken stock. And on it went.
''You want a salad,'' she finally declared.
This, for the record, is one of the great misconceptions of vegetarians. Most do not, in fact want a salad. We want something with a bit more substance.
But a salad it was. And yes, iceberg lettuce. Thankfully, no bacon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID DE LOSSY/GETTY IMAGES
ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
OPTIONS: Heidi Van Pelt-Belle said Fud, her vegetarian restaurant in Kansas City, Mo., was enthusiastically received.
A CLASSIC: Some patrons, unlike the reporter, line up for brisket at Arthur Bryant's barbecue, in Kansas City, Mo.
 THE OTHER RED MEAT: Fud's version of barbecue is made with green jackfruit, as a replacement for meat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEAT FREE DIETS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS (89%); POULTRY (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); MALNUTRITION (55%)

COMPANY: STROUD'S (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



460 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Materials Companies Lift Indexes to 5-Month High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stock indexes climbed to a five-month high on Tuesday, led by bank shares and materials stocks after an upbeat forecast by the aluminum company Alcoa.
Alcoa posted revenue that topped expectations late Monday and gave a bullish outlook to the aluminum industry. Data showing strong Chinese imports of copper helped buoy the rest of the sector.
A gauge of materials companies' shares was among the leading sectors of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, with a gain of 1.8 percent. 
The United States market continued its recent divergence from the woes of the euro zone. Recent economic reports and optimism about the earnings season in the United States have pushed stocks higher in the start of the new year, with the benchmark S.& P. 500 rising in five of six sessions.
''Investors are still focusing on Europe but not putting as much weight on Europe as they were in November,'' said Jonathan Corpina, head of New York Stock Exchange floor operations for Meridian Equity Partners.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 69.78 points, or 0.56 percent, to 12,462.47. The S.& P. 500 rose 11.38 points, or 0.89 percent, to 1,292.08. The Nasdaq climbed 25.94 points, or 0.97 percent, to 2,702.50. The Dow and S.& P. 500 hit their highest intraday levels in five months.
On Tuesday, industrial and materials stocks, closely tied to economic performance, were the day's biggest gainers. Caterpillar shares were up 3 percent at $99.96, leading the Dow index higher.
Banking stocks continued a rebound that has lifted the KBW banks index nearly 9 percent so far this year. The KBW rose 1.9 percent on Tuesday.
The CBOE Volatility Index, or Vix, Wall Street's so-called fear gauge, fell 2.9 percent to 20.46, nearing the psychologically significant 20 level, said Frederic Ruffy, an options strategist at WhatsTrading.com.
The Vix is down 11.6 percent so far in 2012 and falling to levels last seen in late July as daily price moves on the S.& P. 500 have averaged fewer than eight points so far this year, he said.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 2/32, to 100 11/32. The yield was unchanged from Monday at 1.96 percent.
MSCI's all-country world equity index added nearly 1.4 percent, helped by earlier gains in Asian markets.
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300-stock index closed up 1.8 percent at 1,027.23 points.
Inventories at wholesalers barely rose in November, and growth in October was revised lower, suggesting the economy did not get as big a lift as expected from companies restocking their shelves.
Wholesale inventories rose 0.1 percent, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. Analysts had expected a 0.5 percent gain.
Many economists say a restocking of inventories lifted economic growth in the fourth quarter. Businesses had run down stocks in the previous three months, dragging on the country's gross domestic product.
But the wholesale inventory data, which included a downward revision for inventory growth in October, led some economists to trim their fourth-quarter growth forecasts slightly.
''Low growth in wholesale inventories implies slightly weaker fourth-quarter G.D.P.,'' economists from Goldman Sachs wrote in a note to clients.
Sales at the wholesale level grew 0.6 percent in November, a slightly smaller gain than economists expected. At November's sales pace, it would take 1.15 months to clear shelves.
In a separate report, the National Federation of Independent Business said the optimism of small businesses rose in December for a fourth straight month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wholesale goods were sorted and stacked at a Supervalu distribution center in Hopkins, Minn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIANA LINDQUIST/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EURO ZONE (70%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (90%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



461 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Tries to Lure Fresh Direct From Queens

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New Jersey is aggressively trying to lure Fresh Direct, the online grocer based in Queens that employs 1,800 people, across the Hudson River to Jersey City with a $100 million package of tax breaks, land and other subsidies.
At the same time, New York State officials and the Bloomberg administration are countering with a deal that they hope will keep the company in New York, perhaps at a new headquarters and warehouse at the Harlem River Yards in the Bronx.
The battle over Fresh Direct is only the latest skirmish in the decades-long war for jobs between the two states. In the last two years, New Jersey has pushed harder, offering ever-larger subsidies and incentives to prospective candidates. Companies have long taken advantage of the fighting by playing one state against another to land the most lucrative benefits. 
It is unclear how a move west to Jersey City would benefit Fresh Direct's truck deliveries when the bulk of its business is east of the Hudson River. But New York officials, who were reluctant to discuss the matter on Tuesday while negotiations continue, say the company's threat to relocate out of state is genuine.
But New York officials are furious that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey is again engaging in what they say is a debilitating war -- not only for New York's banking jobs, but also for blue-collar jobs like those at Fresh Direct. The 10-year-old company delivers meat, vegetables and detergent to homes in New York City, Nassau County and Westchester County in New York; Fairfield County in Connecticut; and parts of New Jersey.
Fresh Direct, which expects to add 1,000 jobs over the next five years, declined to comment.
Erin Gold, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, confirmed that the state was wooing Fresh Direct. ''We're very comfortable with the incentive packages we used to attract companies,'' she said.
New Jersey's siren call to Fresh Direct comes only eight months after the Christie administration dangled a $200 million incentive package in front of the Hunts Point Terminal Produce Cooperative to move roughly 3,000 jobs to the New Jersey Meadowlands from the Bronx. Stephen Katzman, co-president of the co-op, told The Herald News in June that Governor Christie had called him offering ''pretty much whatever it would take to get us to go there.''
That prompted Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to accuse New Jersey of trans-Hudson bribery. ''I don't like the idea of one state bribing a business to come,'' the mayor said last spring. ''The trouble with that is the next state can do it, too. Anybody can get in that game, and pretty soon, it's a race to the bottom. I don't think anybody benefits.''
Many economists and urban planners question the wisdom of giving away tax revenues by the millions for individual companies, instead of investing in public services and transportation that would benefit all companies and citizens.
''You'd think at a time of shrinking budgets the city and the state would clamp down on corporate giveaways,'' said Bettina Damiani of Good Jobs New York, a nonprofit public-policy group, ''particularly when history often shows that these subsides are not the best job creators.''
Mr. Bloomberg, responding to the possibility the grocer could leave New York, said, ''If we want to get our economy back on track, we need companies like Fresh Direct to expand and create jobs in New York City, not elsewhere.''
Mr. Christie, whose budget cutting has been a hallmark of his administration, has provided generous tax breaks for companies moving between states or within the state. Panasonic received incentives worth $102.4 million under the Urban Transit Hub Tax Credit program after it agreed to move its North American headquarters to Newark from Secaucus. Pearson Education, a publisher, received $82.5 million from the same program to move its operations to Hoboken from Upper Saddle River, even though half its 1,300 employees will relocate to Manhattan.
Still, New York did persuade the produce co-op to renew its lease at Hunts Point for three years and to enter exclusive -- at least for now -- negotiations over building a modern, refrigerated market in New York. The state, the city and the Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., have offered cash and tax breaks worth about $112 million, according to officials involved in the discussions.
If Fresh Direct goes to the Bronx, it may be forced to raise the wages of its delivery drivers under the so-called living wage bill now under consideration in the City Council. The drivers make less than $10 an hour, said Sandy Pope, president of Teamsters Local 805, which has tried unsuccessfully to organize the drivers. ''They continue to exploit people and violate workers' rights to join a union,'' Ms. Pope said. ''We'll fight their efforts to get more subsidies.''
The Bloomberg administration has tried to eliminate or scale back the subsidy packages for companies threatening to relocate. But officials say the increasingly large packages offered by New Jersey can force New York to raise its bid.
Officials say that Fresh Direct, which has received more than $2.5 million in cash and tax breaks from the city and state in the last 10 years, has outgrown the older brick building it owns in Long Island City and needs to move to a modern building with parking lots in order to grow. New York State officials have been working with the Bloomberg administration and Mr. Diaz to lure the company to the Bronx site. According to three people involved in the discussions, they are offering a subsidy package worth about $50 million.
''They are a home-grown success that we are working hard to keep growing and creating jobs in New York,'' said Austin Shafran, a spokesman for New York State's economic development agency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials said Fresh Direct had outgrown its building in Long Island City, Queens. New Jersey has put forth a $100 million package to attract the business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); BRIBERY (60%)

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



462 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Popularity of Bike Tour Leads to Changes

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Given the Bloomberg administration's continued push to have the city become more hospitable to bicyclists, it should come as little surprise that the TD Five Boro Bike Tour has grown in popularity - almost to its own detriment. 
Last year, the registration period lasted all of 24 hours, freezing out many who had wanted to participate. And once the event began, about 3,000 riders were stranded for hours in a major bicyclist bottleneck on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
This year will be different, the organizers say, and it will start with a registration lottery.
''Last year there were challenges and there were difficulties, and I lost sleep over it,'' said Ken Podziba, the president and chief executive of Bike New York, which organizes the 40-mile tour, to be held May 6. ''We can do better than last year and we will do better.''
The lottery will open next Tuesday and run through Feb. 7. The 32,000 winners will be notified no later than March 1. Mr. Podziba said riders who do not get in through the lottery can raise $750 for a charity and get a spot.
Last year, with 32,120 applications in the first 24 hours, Bike New York's computer system crashed, Mr. Podziba said. In 2010, it took 25 days for 31,465 registrations, and in 2009, more than a month for 30,097. Mr. Podziba added that the lottery system could attract riders from outside the area, and their spending would help the broader economy.
To avoid a bottleneck like last year's on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, Mr. Podziba said, Bike New York will space out riders across three starting times. The route is also being changed, with riders taking the Gowanus Expressway instead of the Shore Parkway toward Staten Island. He said Bike New York was adding a rest stop at Brooklyn Bridge Park with restrooms, food, water and entertainment.
Mr. Podziba said he had been working with officials at the New York Police Department and the City Transportation Department to keep a smooth flow to the tour. If bottlenecks arise, the organizers will hold riders back at rest stops.
Riders will also be able to learn about bottlenecks in advance by checking text messages, Twitter and Facebook during breaks. Many participants communicated about problems last year through Twitter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



463 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Naval Officer Embarks On PGA Tour Career

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
HONOLULU -- Over lunch Monday in the wardroom of the U.S.S. Chung-Hoon, Lt. j.g. Lauren Griebel acknowledged that she met President Obama over the holidays while playing a round of golf with her father on a local course. Smiling broadly, Griebel said, ''It wasn't Billy Hurley, but yeah.''
As her voice trailed off, laughter filled the silence. Leading the revelry was Billy Hurley III, a Naval Academy graduate who spent two years on the Chung-Hoon as part of his mandatory five-year military commitment and returned to town this week to fulfill his golfing dream.
With a No. 25 finish last year in the Nationwide Tour standings, Hurley, 29, became the first Naval Academy graduate to earn a PGA Tour card. To the casual golf fan, Hurley is just another face in the sea of newcomers competing at the Sony Open, the first full-field event of the season. But to the sailors aboard the Chung-Hoon, he is a luminary along the lines of Roger Staubach or Yogi Berra, two others who delayed professional athletic careers for naval wartime service. 
''It's really inspirational for our sailors to think about all the golf he gave up to serve his country,'' said the ship's commander, Justin Orlich, who added, ''It's nice for them to see that someone who served five years in the military honorably can step out into the civilian world and so quickly reach a high level of success.''
Wearing eggshell-colored slacks, a tomato red short-sleeve polo shirt and sneakers, Hurley visited the Chung-Hoon after a morning spent fine-tuning his golf game at Waialae Country Club, the tournament site. As Hurley walked across the plank to board, pausing only to address the United States flag, a sailor on deck whispered, ''He has golfer's hair.''
Hurley has blond tufts that curl out from his ears. On tour, his hairstyle would be considered on the conservative side. But to the male sailors whose heads were golf-ball smooth, his locks looked as long and unruly as United States Open rough.
The Chung-Hoon is a 509-foot guided-missile destroyer named after the first Hawaii-born admiral in the United States Navy. In the wardroom, where officers above the rank of midshipman dine, there is a distinct but indefinable odor, and with his first whiff Hurley said, ''It took me right back.''
Hurley served on the ship from 2007 to 2009. He was a lieutenant when it was deployed to the northern Persian Gulf to defend Iraqi oil platforms. His skillful piloting of the ship earned him a ship-driving award, which he did not mention when the 11 uniformed men and women whom he joined for lunch asked him questions about his background.
Over salad, soup, stir-fry and dessert, Hurley spoke about how he grew serious about golf as a teenager in Virginia, but aspired to see the world as a naval officer, not a touring professional. When he enrolled at the Naval Academy and earned all-American status as a golfer, his choices became more difficult.
In the fall after his 2004 graduation, Hurley was assigned to the U.S.S. Gettysburg, a guided-missile cruiser based in Mayport, Fla. He also juggled golf, representing the United States in the 2005 Walker Cup. For two years, Hurley taught an economics course at Annapolis and, with the Navy's blessing, polished his game to make a run at qualifying for the PGA Tour. Soon after he fell short at 2006 Q-school, he was shipped out to Hawaii to serve the rest of his military commitment.
''There was a war going on,'' Hurley said. ''They wanted people to serve. I'm sure there were people thinking, I have classmates getting shot in Iraq and you're going to let this guy play golf? So I understood.''
Hurley spent time in the waters off China and South Korea in addition to the Persian Gulf. He planted his golf clubs in the corner of his stateroom, where they served as a daily reminder of his dormant career. In the two years he spent on the ship, he estimated that he played five competitive rounds.
Lt. Cmdr. Matt Krauz, who worked alongside Hurley on the Chung-Hoon in 2009 and sat next to him at lunch, said he remembered Hurley's hitting an occasional golf ball off the deck.
''I knew he was an esteemed golfer, but his intelligence, his charisma, is what really stood out,'' Krauz said. ''His sailors really loved him. That was immediately evident to me.''
At the table, Hurley easily slipped into the jargon of his old life. He asked if pizza was still a weekend staple and said pizza Saturdays remained a ritual of his civilian life with his wife and their two young sons. He said that one of his golfing friends, upon finding out he was having lunch on the ship, quipped, ''Are you going to take it out for a little spin?''
Although most of the faces were new to Hurley, the jokes were the same, and so were the frustrations, voiced softly and always with a thin smile, about political maneuverings and bureaucratic red tape.
''Oh, you don't have a Boats?'' Hurley said, referring to a boatswain's mate. ''I went without one for a while, too.''
Hurley was asked about his playing schedule, and when he mentioned tournaments in San Diego and in Pebble Beach, Calif., Orlich smiled and said, ''Port cities.''
The travel, he said, is trying. ''You're gone all the time,'' Hurley said. ''You guys know how that is.''
The crew returned to Hawaii on Dec. 1 from a six-month deployment in the western Pacific. After a short hiatus, they were back at work this week. So was Hurley, who has not played competitively since PGA Tour Qualifying school ended Dec. 5.
''There's never really a break,'' Hurley said, and he could have been talking about the military or golf.
As he spoke after lunch on the aft missile deck, a topside rover was on patrol, cradling an M-16. Hurley said he was not sure what to expect when he stepped on the ship for the first time in two years.
''I didn't know if they'd be excited to have me or if they'd want this knucklehead to get off the ship so they can get back to work,'' he said.
Hurley was buoyed by the crew's enthusiastic reception.
''It was supercool to see how behind me they are,'' he said. ''It's really neat to be that figure that they look up to. I don't have the words to describe it.''
Starting Thursday, he hopes he can make a statement with his game.
''I've got my tour card,'' he told the crew members gathered around him. ''Now we'll see how good I really am.''
On the Nationwide Tour, Hurley used a headcover of the Naval Academy mascot, Bill the Goat, to protect his 3-wood. At the end of lunch Monday, Orlich presented him with a headcover with the Chung-Hoon insignia on his driver. As if Hurley could ever forget whom he is now making proud.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Billy Hurley III, 29, is the first Naval Academy graduate to earn a PGA Tour card. Left, Hurley on the U.S.S. Chung-Hoon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL COHEN/GETTY IMAGES
 U.S. AIR FORCE TECH. SGT. MICHAEL R. HOLZWORTH/DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); SPORTS FANS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



464 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Fed Turns Over $77 Billion In Profits to the Treasury

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve said on Tuesday that it contributed $76.9 billion in profits to the Treasury Department last year, slightly less than its record 2010 transfer but much more than in any other previous year.
The Fed is required by law to turn over its profits to the Treasury each year, a highly lucrative byproduct of the central bank's continuing campaign to stimulate economic growth.
Almost 97 percent of the Fed's income was generated by interest payments on its investment portfolio, including $2.5 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, which it has amassed in an effort to decrease borrowing costs for businesses and consumers by reducing long-term interest rates. 
Through those purchases, the central bank has become the largest single investor in federal debt and securities issued by the government-owned mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As a consequence, most of the money flowing into the Fed's coffers comes from taxpayers.
But Fed officials note that this cycle -- payments flowing from Treasury to the Fed and then back to the Treasury -- still saves money for taxpayers because those interest payments otherwise would be made to other investors.
''It's interest that the Treasury didn't have to pay to the Chinese,'' the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, half-jokingly told Congress last year.
The scale of the transfers grew rapidly after the financial crisis.
The Fed made an average annual contribution to the Treasury Department of $23 billion during the five years preceding the crisis. In the years since 2007, the Fed's average contribution has more than doubled to $54 billion.
The Fed transferred $79.3 billion in 2010. Its investment portfolio grew again in 2011, approaching $3 trillion, but profits fell modestly as the Fed reduced some more lucrative holdings, like its support for the insurance company American International Group, and expanded its holdings of low-yield government debt.
Notwithstanding its conservative investment portfolio, the central bank remains highly profitable because of its unique business model. Rather than paying for funding, it simply creates the money that it needs at no cost. The return on its investments, as a result, almost all flows directly to the bottom line.
Still, the model is not foolproof. The Fed could decide to undermine its own profitability if it concluded that the pace of inflation was increasing. Fed officials have said that they would respond to inflationary pressures through a combination of selling assets and raising short-term interest rates, which would have the effect of undercutting the value of those assets just as they were being sold. The Fed also could conclude that it needed to pay higher interest rates to banks that keep reserves on deposit with the central bank, to discourage withdrawals of that money.
In addition to the money sent to the Treasury, the Fed spent $4.5 billion on its own operations, including its expanded role as a regulator of the largest financial companies. The 2010 law overhauling financial regulations also requires the Fed to provide funding for two new agencies, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Office of Financial Research. The bill totaled $282 million last year. Other federal financial regulators are financed by the industries that they oversee. Both systems are intended to shelter regulators from political pressure.
The results reported Tuesday are preliminary. The 12 regional banks that compose the Federal Reserve system will publish final financial results in a few months. If there is a change in estimated profits, the Fed will adjust the amounts that it pays to the Treasury this year. The contributions are made weekly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (75%); DIVESTITURES (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



465 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Romney Is Winner In New Hampshire Blunting Attacks

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Trip Gabriel and Nicholas Confessore in Manchester, N.H., and Dalia Sussman and Allison Kopicki in New York.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney swept to victory in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, turning back a ferocious assault from rivals who sought to disqualify him in the eyes of conservatives, in a contest that failed to anoint a strong opponent to slow his march to the Republican nomination.
Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, won by a double-digit margin, a validation of his strategy to use his neighboring state to cement his standing as the front-runner. The candidates who had hoped to use the primary to emerge as his leading rival fared poorly, leaving a fractured Republican opposition.
''Tonight we celebrate. Tomorrow we go back to work,'' said Mr. Romney, who strode into his victory party at Southern New Hampshire University less than 30 minutes after the final polls closed to present himself as the candidate to beat for the Republican nomination. 
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, whose candidacy has never concerned Mr. Romney, finished second. Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, who staked his entire campaign here, placed a distant third but pledged to fight on.
A week after winning the Iowa caucuses by just eight votes, Mr. Romney pieced together a coalition of moderate and conservative voters. The margin was more comfortable than commanding, but he will benefit handsomely by having five rivals still competing against one another to emerge as his main opponent as the race moves to South Carolina.
Mr. Romney, who struggled in the final hours of the campaign here to ward off attacks from rivals portraying him as an elitist who killed jobs during his high-flying days at a corporate takeover firm, delivered a pointed message to his fellow Republican candidates. He warned them not to play into President Obama's hands by trying to destroy his candidacy.
''In the last few days, we have seen some desperate Republicans join forces with him,'' Mr. Romney said. ''This is such a mistake for our party and for our nation. This country already has a leader who divides us with the bitter politics of envy.''
His words were directed squarely at Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who accused Mr. Romney of presiding over the ''looting'' of companies. The attacks did not seem to help elevate Mr. Gingrich's candidacy. He was locked in a close race for fourth place with former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who refrained from adding his voice to the attacks on Mr. Romney's business background.
A prevailing sense among New Hampshire primary voters that Mr. Romney is the Republican candidate most likely to defeat Mr. Obama helped lift him to victory. He did well among those who consider the economy the most important issue, according to exit polls, and among Catholics and more affluent voters.
Mr. Romney moved to quickly set the tone of the night, accepting victory and delivering a speech with broad themes of the general election, well before the size of his winning margin was known. It was an attempt to take control of the race before confronting his biggest test in the first Southern primary.
''Tonight, we are asking the good people of South Carolina to join the citizens of New Hampshire and make 2012 the year he runs out of time,'' Mr. Romney said, referring again and again to Mr. Obama, but not acknowledging any of his Republican opponents by name.
Mr. Romney intends to convey his muscle in the race on Wednesday by announcing his fund-raising figure from the final three months of last year, when he raised at least $23 million. He is set to roll out endorsements and advertisements during the 10-day spring toward the South Carolina primary, even as he begins his push for the Florida primary on Jan. 31.
The result of the New Hampshire primary left the rest of the field in such disarray -- particularly given the poor showings of Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Santorum -- that it was hard to see the day as anything short of a major victory for Mr. Romney. His aides have long made clear that they would welcome running against Mr. Paul, whose support is largely built around his libertarian views.
Mr. Paul, the only Republican candidate to rival Mr. Romney in the breadth of his organization across the country, congratulated Mr. Romney on his triumph and pledged to press forward with his campaign, declaring, ''We have had a victory for the cause of liberty tonight.''
Mr. Huntsman, who logged more miles in New Hampshire than any other candidate, vowed to stay in the race. His advisers conceded that his bank account was dry and his path to victory was unclear, but he vowed to continue to South Carolina.
''Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're in the hunt,'' Mr. Huntsman said, speaking to his supporters in Manchester. ''I'd say third place is a ticket to ride, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, South Carolina.''
Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich delivered speeches at the same time on Tuesday evening, not conceding defeat, but arguing that the race was only beginning. They thanked the voters of New Hampshire before dashing off to South Carolina, where they hoped the electorate would be more welcoming to their message.
''We have an opportunity to be the true conservative to do what's necessary,'' said Mr. Santorum, who had hoped his strong second-place finish in Iowa would keep his candidacy alive. He reassured his supporters, ''We can win this race.''
Mr. Gingrich, who came under withering criticism from influential Republicans, showed no signs of relenting in his attacks on Mr. Romney. A ''super PAC'' supporting his candidacy is airing television advertisements bolstering his argument against Mr. Romney in South Carolina.
''I believe we can reach out and create a majority that will shock the country and a majority that will continue to put us on the right track,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''It is doable. It is a daunting challenge, but consider the alternative.''
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who abandoned his effort in New Hampshire to try to salvage his candidacy in South Carolina, argued at a campaign stop on Tuesday that corporate takeover firms like Mr. Romney's Bain Capital were ''vultures'' that pick struggling companies clean and leave local communities to pick up the pieces.
''They're vultures that are sitting out there on the tree limb waiting for the company to get sick,'' Mr. Perry told a crowd in Fort Mill, S.C. ''And then they swoop in, they eat the carcass, they leave with that, and they leave the skeleton.''
The results of surveys of voters leaving the polls in New Hampshire found that nearly half of the primary voters on Tuesday identify themselves as independents and half consider themselves Republican. Just over half of the voters said they were conservative on most political matters, while more than one-third said they were moderate.
Mr. Romney, who owns a house in the state and spent four years as the governor of neighboring Massachusetts, was considered a favorite son here. His advantages were abundant, but there was one obstacle that loomed larger than any of his Republican rivals: the inclination of New Hampshire to knock a front-runner down to size.
Yet that did not happen.
Kevin Kobylinski, a manager at a medical company, said he voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 when he lived in California. But he decided to vote for Mr. Romney in the Republican primary here, declaring, ''I would like to see a competitive election.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney with his family, declaring victory in Manchester. ''Tonight we celebrate,'' he said. ''Tomorrow we go back to work.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., watching returns come in at his hotel with his wife, Mary Kaye, finished third in New Hampshire but pledged to stay in the race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); TAKEOVERS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JON HUNTSMAN (71%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



466 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: Before Handing Romney a Victory, Many Voters Spent Weeks Wavering

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Reporting was contributed by Jess Bidgood in Salem and Laconia, N.H.; Nicholas Confessore in Portsmouth, N.H.; and Will Storey in Bedford, N.H.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Some cast votes grudgingly, others with utmost confidence in their choice, and many in New Hampshire's famously late-breaking electorate voted in the Republican primary on Tuesday after making up their minds at the last minute. Their decisions were based on economic concerns and, in many cases, pragmatism, with the aim of defeating President Obama in November.
Then there were voters, like Nick Cenatiempo, who said electability was not so important as their personal affinity for a candidate. After weeks of indecision, he had finally decided -- ''just now, in there'' -- to support Newt Gingrich in the primary.
''My wife said to me, 'He's not going to win,' '' said Mr. Cenatiempo, who, like some 40 percent of this state's electorate, is not a member of either major party. ''That doesn't matter. What matters here is that I make the right decision that I can live with, you know what I mean?'' 
In the end, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, decisively won the state, though wavering voters like Mr. Cenatiempo played a large role in the results.
According to surveys of voters leaving polling places across the state, conducted by Edison Research, Mr. Romney did best among Roman Catholics, more affluent voters, Republicans, those who consider the economy the most important issue and those who consider themselves ''somewhat conservative.''
Representative Ron Paul of Texas got the support of almost half the voters under 25, and did well with voters who said they were very liberal on social issues. A quarter of the voters said the federal budget deficit was the most important issue, and a third of them backed Mr. Paul. About 4 in 10 of those who said conservatism was the chief quality they were looking for in a candidate voted for Mr. Paul.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor, did best with voters who oppose the Tea Party movement and with voters who have a positive opinion of the Obama administration. Three in 10 of Mr. Huntsman's voters decided on Primary Day, and 6 in 10 decided in the last few days.
Mr. Cenatiempo, 63, had done his homework on the candidates. He watched the debate last weekend closely and thought hard about voting for Mr. Huntsman. But in the end, Mr. Cenatiempo decided Mr. Huntsman would be too mild a president.
''Newt has guts and he has experience,'' Mr. Cenatiempo said. ''I think he's tough.''
Most of those who voted Tuesday were older than 45, according to the exit poll. About a third had total family incomes of more than $100,000, and more than half had a college degree.
A third of the voters said the ability to defeat President Obama was the most important factor in choosing a candidate, according to the exit poll. Four in 10 described themselves as ''angry'' at the Obama administration; another 4 in 10 said that while not angry, they were dissatisfied.
Chris LeBerge of Manchester, an independent voter, small-business owner and self-described moderate, said he had wavered between Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Romney, ultimately choosing Mr. Romney. ''In the end, he's the one I believe can win it,'' said Mr. LeBerge, 45. ''I don't think Huntsman has enough name recognition around the nation to help him win, and ultimately I think it's most important that we get a Republican president.''
At the Rye Elementary School outside Portsmouth, Rose Cotronea said she had been mulling over her choice for months.
''I kept looking at all these guys and thinking, all I know is someone's got to get rid of Obama,'' said Ms. Cotronea, 50, a psychotherapist.
When Monday dawned and she still had not come to a decision, Ms. Cotronea made a 45-minute drive to see Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, speak in Somersworth.
The experience made up her mind. ''Just meeting him, seeing him speak, was really important,'' said Ms. Cotronea. ''These guys are so hypocritical. I want someone who is a man of character and values.''
About 6 in 10 New Hampshire voters said the economy was the issue that mattered most, according to the Edison exit poll. More than 9 in 10 said they were worried about the direction of the nation's economy; at the same time, two-thirds said their own financial situation was holding steady. New Hampshire's unemployment rate, 5.2 percent, is one of the lowest in the country.
Although Mr. Romney had a large lead in most polls before the primary, some voters appear to have been left cold by his shifts over the years on some issues, particularly abortion. At the North Church Parish House in Portsmouth, June Rogers, 85, a registered nurse, said she had chosen between Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul.
''I leaned to Paul, but I decided to stay with Romney,'' said Ms. Rogers, who said that as a medical doctor, Mr. Paul, who opposes abortion, should support abortion rights. Informed that Mr. Romney now opposed abortion in most circumstances, Ms. Rogers did a double take.
''He does?'' she asked.
In Concord, the state capital, Emily Phelps, 64, an independent voter, said she had decided to back Mr. Huntsman after the weekend debate, when Mr. Romney criticized him for being President Obama's ambassador to China. ''When he said to Romney, 'Listen, I did my service for my country and you're being nasty to me,' '' Ms. Phelps, a nurse, said, ''I thought, it's about time somebody spoke up to that guy.''
Jeris Connor, who voted for Mr. Paul, said he had been an ardent Obama supporter in 2008 but had quickly become disillusioned. Mr. Connor, a 28-year-old independent, said he had changed his registration from Democrat this year because he liked Mr. Paul's ''message of peace, his wanting to bring the troops home, his strong stance on not flip-flopping and sticking to his guns.''
Mr. Connor will probably vote for Mr. Obama this fall if Mr. Paul is not the Republican nominee -- but he will do so grudgingly, he said.
In Bedford, an affluent suburb of Manchester, several voters supporting Mr. Romney cited his experience in the business, and particularly his tenure at the private equity firm Bain Capital.
''It further encouraged me to vote for him,'' said Jack McInerney, a Republican who also voted for Mr. Romney in the 2008 primary.
In Laconia, in the politically conservative Lakes Region, Niel Young, a columnist and conservative radio host, said he was still undecided at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, though he was leaning toward Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who barely campaigned here.
''I've been with a lot of them,'' Mr. Young, 66, said, wearily ticking off a string of Republican candidates as if they had been disappointing blind dates.
''I started out with Bachmann,'' he said, referring to Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who left the race after faring poorly in the Iowa caucuses. ''But she didn't spend enough time in New Hampshire. And then I thought, well, Newt's on fire, he'll be all right. And then it was Santorum. And then I was going to go with Perry if all else fails. And all else failed.''
He added, ''I'm tired of voting for the lesser of two evils.''
How the Poll Was Conducted: The New Hampshire exit poll was based on questionnaires completed by Republican primary voters on Tuesday as they left election locations throughout the state. The poll was conducted by Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., for the National Election Pool, which consists of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results are based on 2,760 Republican primary voters at 40 randomly selected polling places who were interviewed as they left. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus 3 percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who participated in the Republican primary in New Hampshire. Results based on smaller subgroups, like specific demographic groups or backers of a particular candidate, have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on an election day, like reluctance of some voters to take time to complete the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Prof. David R. Jones of Baruch College, City University of New York; Prof. Monika L. McDermott of Fordham University; and Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The New York Times in its polling analysis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Serena Varley cast her primary vote on Tuesday in Concord, N.H., accompanied by four of her six children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gingrich
Huntsman
Paul
Perry
Romney
Santorum CHARTS: How Different Groups Voted: Based on interviews with voters as they left voting places.
 Comparing Iowa and New Hampshire Voters: From polls conducted Tuesday in New Hampshire and Jan. 3 in Iowa. (Sources: Edison Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); LIBERALISM (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (79%); RON PAUL (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RICK PERRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



467 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Contest

 BODY:
Where the Iowa caucuses illuminated the dark essence of social conservatism, the New Hampshire primary was a journey into the dingy, cramped quarters of the right wing's economic policies.
The Republicans ritually denounced President Obama as hostile to capitalism, disdainful of individual enterprise and lacking in ideas for reviving the economy. All they had to offer were economic ideas that not only are inadequate for that purpose but were instrumental in creating the nation's current economic problems.
In a flailing effort to address the pain of the middle class, the Republicans repeated familiar charges that Mr. Obama advocates a redistribution of wealth. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas outright called him a socialist. Newt Gingrich tried to focus national anger about income inequality with a faux populist assault on Mitt Romney's participation in the frenzied world of leveraged buyouts. 
It was all exactly backward. Americans are angry about income redistribution -- from the middle class to the tiny sliver at the top, not from the top down. Leveraged buyouts were only one factor in the growth of the income gap. Also to blame was a host of benighted economic policies advocated by Republicans for the last 30 years.
This fight will continue in South Carolina on Jan. 21. Mr. Romney did not win the New Hampshire primary by enough to knock out his rivals because Representative Ron Paul and Rick Santorum were never expected to win and Jon Huntsman Jr. did surprisingly well.
The candidates' economic arguments were disturbingly disconnected from economic reality. They spoke of government spending as if it were the sole cause of the federal budget deficit and cutting it the sole solution. In reality, it was tax cuts for the wealthy, an assault on social programs and a deregulatory zeal that allowed a recklessness that led to near economic collapse.
The solution is policies that promote growth and help the middle class, not what the Republican hopefuls want. Mr. Obama said it well on Monday night: ''We can't go back to this brand of you're-on-your-own economics.'' You couldn't tell that by listening to Mr. Romney prattle about a merit-based economy and call for lowering taxes and cutting spending.
Like some others, Mr. Gingrich talked about income inequality, but it was a tactical move. A ''super PAC'' that supports him plans to run a documentary this weekend, with the help of a casino billionaire of all people, that paints Mr. Romney as a rapacious corporate raider for his leadership of the leveraged buyout firm Bain Capital. The message is that those buyouts were to blame for income inequality. Those buyouts were not the only cause of income inequality, and certainly not the Great Recession.
Economic growth and rising productivity are needed for broadly shared prosperity, but rising living standards require policies that ensure regular increases in the minimum wage, which peaked in 1968; greater investment in the social safety net; full employment as a government priority; progressive taxation; and effective financial regulation to avoid overgrowth followed by collapse.
These kinds of policies dominated from the late-1940s to the 1970s, a time of broadly shared prosperity and a strong middle class. Those policies were then systematically reversed, income inequality began to explode and productivity growth slowed. Tax cuts for the rich and assaults on programs for the poor and middle class worsened inequality during the years of George W. Bush.
The answer is not more of the same failed policies. The solution is to revive the successful ones, along with policies to stimulate the economy and stop foreclosures. Mr. Obama understands this. The Republican hopefuls are deluding themselves and trying to delude the voters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (88%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); DEREGULATION (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); TAX LAW (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); RICK PERRY (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



468 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: In Talks With the Chinese, Geithner Faces an Uphill Climb

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Mia Li contributed research. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, came to Beijing on Tuesday hoping to persuade Chinese leaders to toughen their stance toward Iran and to soften their opposition to a stronger renminbi, a move that could help the American economy.
By many accounts, including some from the Chinese, his odds of success on those issues are long. But on other topics, like the need to address Europe's debt problems, the two sides may find more agreement. 
Mr. Geithner, the point man for the Obama administration's economic dealings with the Chinese, arrived here as fiscal and trade relations showed signs of fraying. Last month, the Chinese applied stiff tariffs on imports of American automobiles, and in November, they opened an investigation into American subsidies to renewable-energy industries.
On the American side, President Obama left China out of a trade pact with East Asian countries, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, that he announced in November. Washington is investigating or formally pursuing trade complaints on a range of goods, including solar panels, broiler chickens and steel pipes.
Mr. Geithner's arrival coincided with a report that Mr. Obama was creating an interagency task force to search for unfair trade and business practices by the Chinese. That report, in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, said that Mr. Geithner would brief Chinese officials on the task force during his visit here.
American corporations in industries like telecommunications and financial services have increasingly complained that China continues to restrict their access to domestic markets, despite pledges of openness when China joined the World Trade Organization a decade ago.
Differences aside, the economic relationship between the two countries has become so broad that Mr. Geithner and his counterparts are expected to find common ground.
In meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday with Premier Wen Jiabao; Vice President Xi Jinping; and Wang Qishan and Li Keqiang, vice premiers, the two sides are expected to focus on ways to keep Europe's debt crisis from dragging the global economy back into recession.
At the first meeting Tuesday evening, Mr. Wang alluded to the global role facing the United States and China, saying the countries were ''having important cooperation in the multilateral and global arena in the areas of economy, finance, trade policies and also G-20 related affairs.''
The visit also offers a chance for a meeting with Mr. Xi, the presumed successor to President Hu Jintao, before Mr. Xi travels to the United States this year.
Yet Mr. Geithner seems unlikely to gain many concessions on the two top issues for this visit: the valuation of the renminbi and American efforts to impose new financial sanctions on Iran's nuclear program.
The United States has long complained that China keeps the renminbi artificially low to give its products a price advantage in foreign trade. China has allowed a slow appreciation of its currency against the dollar -- in unadjusted terms, a gain of nearly 4.8 percent against the dollar in the last year, according to the Bank of China.
But some American economists say the renminbi would appreciate another 10 to 20 percent if the market set its value. The Obama administration said in December that China's currency remained ''substantially undervalued,'' but it declined to call China a currency manipulator.
Mr. Geithner is sure to raise the issue of the renminbi this week. But he is unlikely to get a sympathetic hearing, said Li Xiangyang, the vice director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the state-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
''Other currencies are dropping against the U.S. dollar right now,'' he said in an interview. ''The United States has no right to ask China to appreciate its currency when the global trade is declining and China's economy itself is facing the risk of decline.''
Mr. Geithner faces an equally hard task on the Iranian issue. In the last week, President Obama signed legislation that would deny foreign financial companies that buy Iranian oil access to the American financial system. Those sanctions aim to increase pressure on Iran to curtail what many say is an effort to build nuclear weapons.
The European Union is moving toward a ban on buying Iranian oil, and Japan and South Korea, two of Iran's major customers, have indicated muted support for the Washington initiative. Mr. Geithner will seek to enlist China's help, too.
But on Monday, a senior Beijing diplomat seemed to suggest that that idea had no chance of succeeding. The diplomat, the vice foreign minister, Cui Tiankai, repeated China's argument that differences over Iran's nuclear intentions ''cannot be resolved by sanctions alone'' and require more negotiations.
Mr. Cui dismissed the notion that China should try to sway Tehran by reducing or ending its purchases of Iranian oil or natural gas. ''Regular economic and trade relations between China and Iran have nothing to do with the nuclear issue,'' he said. ''We should not mix issues with different natures.''
China bought more than 11 percent of its oil imports from Iran in the first 11 months of 2011, up from 9.6 percent in the same period in 2010, Chinese customs statistics show. The Chinese also have a thriving business in oil services in Iran, having committed $120 billion to oil and gas projects there as of 2009, according to published reports.
China has historically been reluctant to support economic sanctions not approved by the United Nations. But its increasing isolation on the Iranian nuclear issue could lead it to take some other measure to meet American requests, like a direct message to Tehran, said Francois Godement, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, left, at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing with Vice Premier Wang Qishan. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY WONG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); POULTRY (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (87%); XI JINPING (79%); HU JINTAO (58%); WEN JIABAO (52%); LI KEQIANG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



469 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Perfect Doll

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H.
As chief executive of Bain Capital, Mitt Romney was all about cold analysis and hot profits.
He took a rare personal interest in one of his investments: the Lifelike Company, which produced My Twinn dolls, fashioned to look like the little girls who owned them.
As Mark Maremont reported in The Wall Street Journal on Monday, Romney invested $2.1 million in 1996 for a stake in the company; the idea was brought to him by a Lifelike partner who was a friend from Brigham Young University and Harvard Business School. 
Romney, who accuses President Obama of ''crony capitalism'' on the Solyndra deal, introduced his brother-in-law to Lifelike officials, who dutifully hired the relative and promoted him to vice president with an annual salary of $100,000.
Romney's Bain colleagues, according to The Journal, were dubious from the start and, indeed, the brother-in-law was fired and the company failed, despite a personal loan from Romney.
But I'm beginning to suspect that before the factory shut down, Mitt requested his own customized doll.
He has clearly brought a My Twinn on the trail -- a plastic replica of a candidate who's often described as a plastic replica: white teeth, gelled hair, windowpane shirt, Tommy Bahama jeans.
(''I won't vote for a Ken doll,'' a Bradford, N.H., resident, Jason Reid, adamantly told me at the Bradford Market the other night.)
Romney may have been a pampered prince of Detroit and a leveraged buyout king of Boston, the elite of the elite in the Mormon Church, in the financial world and in the political world.
But Mitt's My Twinn has a hardscrabble background, struggling from the bottom up, fearing pink slips, sweating losing jobs and somehow, late in life, letting himself get talked into a presidential run.
Romney may have been a Wall Street predator, looter and vulture gnawing at the carcasses of companies and plotting a White House bid in diapers to finish what his dad started, as his Republican rivals have portrayed him. ''Make a profit,'' a younger Romney laughingly says in the attack film financed by supporters of Newt Gingrich. ''That's what it's all about, right?''
But Mitt's My Twinn is Just Like You.
Romney may be a shape-shifting opportunist full of ''pious baloney,'' as Gingrich, a crazed Chuckie doll, asserts.
But Mitt's My Twinn is humble, sincere and salt of the earth.
With many worried that America is in decline, a prospective race between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney is being caricatured here as ''Saul Alinsky versus Gordon Gekko,'' as Don Baer, a former senior Clinton White House adviser, put it.
And the ones painting Romney as a ruthless Gekko, complete with a 1980s-era slicked-back mane, are Republicans.
Romney had planned to campaign against Obama in the fall by defending free enterprise. But now he finds himself having to do it in the Republican nominating contests.
His G.O.P. rivals are not only trashing President Obama as a socialist, they've become socialists themselves in a last desperate -- and vain -- attempt to bring down the front-runner, whose less-than-scintillating persona inspired one Democrat to note about Republican voters: ''The dog won't eat the dog food.'' Romney's competitors have been running around New Hampshire and South Carolina trashing Romney for doing what Republicans do: throwing people out of work and making money.
To the giddy delight of Democrats, Romney's rivals here have softened him up for Obama by making the case that Bain is the symbol of the central problem with the American economy: corporate profits are sky-high while companies aren't hiring much.
Michael Kranish and Scott Helman, the authors of a new biography, ''The Real Romney,'' tell this story: During the 1968 Republican primary, after George Romney made his notorious remark about getting ''the greatest brainwashing that anybody can get'' on Vietnam, The Detroit News, ordinarily a supporter, blasted his ''blurt and retreat habits'' and urged him to get out of the race.
Although Mitt has studied his dad's mistakes in that race carefully, he seems to be inexorably repeating some of them.
He won Tuesday night, denouncing his rivals' ''bitter politics of envy,'' but he had a ''blurt and retreat'' week in New Hampshire that didn't augur well for the fall.
Though he was referring to getting rid of insurance companies that were not providing adequate care, his ''I like to be able to fire people who provide services to me'' crack was a chuckleheaded move that played into the hands of foes.
And his inept attempts to paint himself as an Average Joe who somehow backed into the presidential arena earned him relentless mocking.
But, as the authors of ''The Real Romney'' report, Mitt once told a church friend that Romneys were built to swim upstream. He was never a great natural tennis player, the authors wrote, but he compensated with strategic thinking and gamesmanship. As a friend of Mitt's put it: ''His strategy is simply to hit the ball back one more time than you do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (70%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); RELIGION (63%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); SOLYNDRA INC (57%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



470 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Judges Press Premier to Defy President

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and ISMAIL KHAN; Salman Masood reported from Islamabad, and Ismail Khan from Peshawar, Pakistan.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- The political and legal crisis in Pakistan took a new turn on Tuesday when the Supreme Court threatened to dismiss Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani for failing to comply with court orders to reopen corruption cases against his political boss: President Asif Ali Zardari.
The latest pressure from the court compounds the problems of the governing Pakistan Peoples Party, already facing a political crisis over a controversial memo that sought United States support in thwarting a feared military coup. 
Adding to the government's troubles is a steep increase in terrorist attacks. Another attack occurred early Tuesday, a truck bombing that the authorities said killed more than 25 people, including women and children, in northwestern Pakistan. A senior government official said the bombing appeared to be in retaliation for the recent killing of a militant leader.
Since December 2009, when the Supreme Court struck down an amnesty that nullified corruption charges against thousands of politicians, the court has insisted that the government reopen corruption cases against Mr. Zardari.
But the government has resisted court orders, and Mr. Zardari said last week that, ''come what may,'' officials from his party would not reopen the graft cases filed against him and his wife, Benazir Bhutto, in Switzerland. Ms. Bhutto was assassinated in 2007.
On Tuesday, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Asif Saeed Khosa, ruled that the government was guilty of ''willful disobedience'' and said that Mr. Gilani was ''dishonest'' for failing to carry out the earlier court orders.
The judges laid out six options -- including initiating contempt of court charges, dismissing the prime minister, forming a judicial commission and taking action against the president for violating his constitutional oath -- and ordered the attorney general to explain the government's position in court on Monday.
A three-member judicial commission that is investigating the controversial memo is scheduled to resume its hearing the same day. Apart from having an acrimonious relationship with the judiciary, the government has an uneasy relationship with the country's top generals.
Mr. Zardari, who spent 11 years in prison on unproved corruption charges, says the corruption cases against him and Ms. Bhutto that date to the 1990s were politically motivated.
In an interview last week with GEO TV, a news network, Mr. Zardari said reopening those cases would be tantamount to ''a trial of the grave'' of his wife.
Mr. Zardari also claims immunity as president, but the judiciary, led by Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, has resisted that claim and has aggressively pursued cases against Mr. Zardari's party, leading many government officials to speculate that the judiciary was being used by the country's powerful military to dismiss the government before the March elections for the Senate, in which the Pakistan Peoples Party is expected to win a majority.
Political analysts said the fate of Mr. Gilani, the prime minister, was in peril.
Mr. Zardari called a meeting of his party officials and coalition partners on Tuesday evening to chart strategy, and he was expected to get a statement of support from his allies.
''The situation is fast moving towards a head-on confrontation,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a political and military analyst based in Lahore. ''It depends on what options are exercised by the Supreme Court.''
According to the Pakistani Constitution, a prime minister can be removed only by the Parliament, and the Supreme Court can disqualify the prime minister only indirectly, Mr. Rizvi said.
''If the court disqualifies the prime minister and the prime minister continues to enjoy the support of the Parliament, then the stage is set for a very dangerous confrontation,'' he said.
The legal standoff is forcing the government to defer issues of greater importance, like rescuing a failing economy and fighting Taliban insurgents, as it focuses on its political survival, Mr. Rizvi said.
''The court, the military and the executive are trying to assert themselves,'' he said. ''It has become a free-for-all.''
There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the bombing on Tuesday, but it appeared to have been carried out by Tehrik-i-Taliban, an umbrella organization of Pakistani militant groups, against the Zakhakhel tribe, which has formed a militia in support of the government, said Mutahir Zeb, administrator for the Khyber tribal region.
Mr. Zeb said the Tehrik-i-Taliban sought to avenge the killing of Qari Kamran, a local Taliban commander, by security forces last week in an area occupied by the Zakhakhel.
Mr. Zeb said a pickup truck exploded in the middle of a bus terminal used by the Zakhakhel in the town of Jamrud.
The bomb destroyed several vehicles, damaged a nearby gasoline pump and shattered windows in the area. In addition to those killed, 27 people were reported wounded in the bombing and were taken to hospitals in Peshawar.
''I was on duty at the nearby checkpoint when I heard a big bang,'' said Mir Gul, a security guard. ''I rushed toward the spot and saw bodies lying around while the injured cried for help. It was devastating. There was blood everywhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A wounded man put on his shoe before being taken to a hospital after a bombing on Tuesday that killed dozens near Peshawar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QAZI RAUF/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUPS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TERRORISM (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (79%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (78%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



471 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Advisers Work to Put Positive Spin on Romney's Career in Corporate Buyouts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and ASHLEY PARKER; Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting from Manchester, and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Columbia, S.C.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Campaign advisers to former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, stung by unexpectedly fierce attacks from Republican rivals on his career as a corporate buyout specialist, are scrambling to avoid a prolonged and nasty battle over his business record before it does lasting damage to the front-runner.
Although the advisers had always expected that Democrats would malign Mr. Romney's work of buying and selling companies, they were largely unprepared for an assault that came so early in the campaign and from within the ranks of their own party, those involved in the campaign discussions said.
Even as Mr. Romney coasted to victory in New Hampshire, they worry that the critique could prove more potent as the race shifts to South Carolina, where shuttered mills dot the landscape, unemployment is higher and suspicion of financial elites is not limited to left-leaning voters. 
Some advisers to Romney argue that the most forceful way to rebut the mounting criticism is to prominently tell the stories of winners as well as the losers in the world of private equity: municipal pension funds that invested in his firm, Bain Capital, and rank-and-file workers hired by the companies that Mr. Romney helped turn around.
The campaign intends to cast Mr. Romney, a founder and a former chief executive of Bain Capital, as a defender of market capitalism, a bedrock principle of Republicanism, and to suggest that those who assail his business background are outside the party's mainstream.
In his victory speech Tuesday night, Mr. Romney lamented that ''desperate Republicans'' were attacking the free enterprise system and the very notion of success.
''This is such a mistake for our party and for our nation,'' he said. ''The country already has a leader who divides us with the bitter politics of envy.''
That message was echoed by Mr. Romney's surrogates and embraced by a number of influential conservatives on Tuesday, from Rush Limbaugh to Michelle Malkin and the Club for Growth.
''It's oddly uniting conservatives around him,'' said Jim Dyke, a Republican strategist based in Charleston.
Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina joined the growing chorus of Republicans who expressed discomfort with the Republican attacks on the buyout practices exercised by Bain when Mr. Romney was there.
Speaking on the Mark Levin radio show immediately after Mr. Romney gave his acceptance speech, Mr. DeMint, who endorsed Mr. Romney in 2008 but has not endorsed anybody this year, said, ''He's hitting a lot of the hot buttons for me about balancing the budget, and frankly, I'm a little concerned about the few Republicans who have criticized some of what I consider the free-market principles here.''
The attacks on Mr. Romney are especially unsettling to his campaign manager, Matt Rhoades, who worries that a narrative depicting Romney as a heartless corporate raider will drag down his favorability rating and be sustained by the Obama campaign, said two people told of the internal discussions. (Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior strategist for Mr. Romney, played down such concerns. ''I wouldn't read too much into the rumors,'' he said.)
While his campaign advisers generally agree that Mr. Romney must explain his work at Bain, they are wary of engaging in an exhaustive public examination of the nearly 100 deals he was involved in, anxious that it could bog him down in the inevitably messy details of fixing troubled companies, whether they are job cuts or big financial payouts.
His rivals, however, are eager to delve deeply into the particulars of what they view as Mr. Romney's biggest political vulnerability.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is zeroing in on two companies that, under Bain's supervision, together laid off hundreds of workers in South Carolina. On Tuesday, in Fort Mill, S.C., Mr. Perry compared buyout firms like Bain to predatory animals.
''They're just vultures,'' Mr. Perry said. ''They're vultures that are sitting out there on the tree limb waiting for the company to get sick, and then they swoop in, they eat the carcass, they leave with that and they leave the skeleton.''
But by far the most aggressive assault on Mr. Romney's time at Bain will come from allies of Newt Gingrich, who plan to saturate South Carolina's airwaves with excerpts from a scathing 30-minute movie about how Bain Capital disrupted the lives of everyday workers.
In response on Monday, Restore Our Future, the leading ''super PAC'' backing Mr. Romney, reserved $2.3 million worth of television advertising time in South Carolina, hoping to match the $3.4 million campaign of negative television and radio ads from a super PAC promoting Mr. Gingrich, Winning Our Future.
The group supporting Mr. Romney pulled a positive advertisement in South Carolina featuring Mr. Romney, substituting one that is critical of the former speaker.
Republican operatives, while expressing dismay at the critique of Bain Capital, nevertheless acknowledged that it could prove powerful in coloring voters' perceptions of Mr. Romney as he enters South Carolina, a state where he has struggled in the past.
Steve Schmidt, a Republican strategist who is not aligned with a candidate this year, said that Mr. Romney's work in private equity -- an industry that uses large amounts of debt to buy companies and then seeks to sell them at a profit -- is ''easily caricatured.''
''This will be a major liability that Mitt Romney brings into the race,'' he said.
The broadsides against his time at Bain may be particularly resonant because they reinforce a longstanding perception of Mr. Romney, a multimillionaire with three homes, as someone far removed from the concerns of everyday voters.
Mr. Romney seemed to call attention inadvertently to that image in New Hampshire in a remark that he had feared receiving a ''pink slip'' during his professional life, an assertion that seemed tin-eared coming from the son of a wealthy auto executive and governor of Michigan.
''They are not dissimilar,'' said Mr. Schmidt, ''to a category of comments that John Kerry made that are a combination of strange and aloof and make the task of connecting with ordinary voters all the more difficult.''
Aides to Mr. Romney are discussing a wide range of ways to push back, including highlighting the experiences of ordinary employees who benefited from Mr. Romney's investments at companies like Staples, the Sports Authority and Dominos, which thrived after Bain bought or invested in them.
''What should not be forgotten,'' said Tom Stemberg, a founder of Staples and a Romney friend, ''is that while C.E.O.'s benefited from Mitt's help, it's thousands of rank-and-file associates at the company Mitt helped who really benefited in the long run.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to Fort Mill, S.C., as Fort Mills.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Southern New Hampshire University in Manchester, supporters celebrated Mitt Romney's victory Tuesday night. Republican rivals have attacked his career as a corporate buyout specialist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); BUDGETS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); PENSION FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JIM DEMINT (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (71%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



472 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Longer Perspective on Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Analysis of differing approaches to unemployment insurance and its duration in the United States and Europe has not yet found an optimal length, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
While Americans discuss the duration of unemployment benefits in terms of weeks, Europeans discuss them in terms of months and, sometimes, years. A few countries even pay unemployment benefits indefinitely, in some circumstances.
Unemployment insurance offers funds, for a limited eligibility period (in the United States, now up to 99 weeks) to "covered" people who lost their jobs and have not yet been unable to find and start a new job. In last week's post, I showed that the United States, for at least 50 years, has never offered unemployment benefits for so long as it does now.
For the 50 years prior to December 2008, the maximum unemployment benefit period was 72 weeks during the 1992 recession. In the severe 1981-82 recession, the benefit period was much less, 55 weeks. This historical perspective may indicate that 99 weeks is long enough, or maybe even too long.

However, international comparisons tell the opposite story. The chart from 2009 Congressional testimony by Gary Burtless below compares the maximum duration of unemployment insurance benefits in 21 nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, as of 2005, measured in months. The United States had the shortest duration of the 21 countries, six months. By 2009, when Mr. Burtless testified, the United States had increased its benefit period and would increase it still after that; he did not have 2009 data on the other countries.
Even in 2005, before the world financial crisis, many countries had unemployment benefits that lasted 18 months or more. Three countries offered benefits indefinitely, in some situations. By European standards, our 99 weeks appears too short.
Part of the reason that countries can disagree so much on the benefit period is that long periods have both costs and benefits. A longer benefit period makes it more difficult to get people back to work, because they are getting paid for not working. But for the relatively small fraction of people who cannot find a job even after looking for several years, the government benefits help cushion lives that can be very difficult.
Moreover, the aggregate consequences of a long benefit period may not be all that large, because a only small fraction of people are unemployed long enough for it to matter whether the benefit period is 99 weeks or 199 weeks. At the end of 2010, for example, when unemployment in the United States was quite high, only about 2 percent of the unemployed had been unemployed more than 25 months, let alone 50 months.
For the same reason, it makes a lot bigger difference if benefits last 12 months rather than six, because about half of the unemployed have been unemployed more than six months. 
We know that long-lasting unemployment benefits have the cost of less employment and the benefit of more safety. But we still don't know the optimal mix of the two.

        
With Unemployment Insurance, Is 99 Weeks the Magic Number?
        
Who Gets Unemployment Benefits
        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous
        
The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits
        
Unemployment Compensation Over Time

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); TESTIMONY (67%) Casey B. Mulligan; long-term unemployed; O.E.C.D.; Savings; Unemployment; unemployment duration; Unemployment Insurance; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Europe; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



473 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Offstage, Simulators Take Up Their Positions at Detroit Auto Show

BYLINE: SAM SCHEMBARI


HIGHLIGHT: Video-game simulators have become important features of automakers' show displays. 

 BODY:
DETROIT -- With so many new vehicles vying for attention during press previews at the auto show, it's no longer sufficient to roll a car onstage through a fog bank. Automakers are turning to side exhibits that incorporate some aspect of virtual reality, usually involving driving simulators, to keep people interested in its products long after the fog machine is switched off.
Mazda, which surrendered some performance credibility by discontinuing the RX-8 late last year, had a cockpit-based arcade game at its stand that resembled the arcade classic Cruis'n USA -- but here, you weren't the one driving. Instead, you took your seat in front of a screen for a virtual ride on Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca. The seat bucked in sync with the video, approximating the feeling of being on the track.
Ford's simulator was designed to behave like the new Focus ST, but unlike at the Mazda stand, you were in control. There were three racing seats mounted atop hydraulics, which would move in concert with the driver's inputs. A turn of the wheel provoked a turn of the entire rig. Though there was no manual shifting on the virtual track course, it was an engaging driver and I'm sure many show attendees this week will fantasize about clearing space in the living room for such a set-up.
Cadillac envisioned a minimalist's simulator -- an off-the-shelf iRacing set-up that put drivers behind the wheel of an 800-horsepower Cadillac LMP racecar. The consumer-grade simulation wasn't quite as thrilling as Ford's, but it was still very entertaining.
Honda's simulator, called the Eco Assist Challenge, was not a white-knuckle affair, nor was it trying to be. The idea was to educate attendees on the automaker's Eco Assist passive fuel-economy feedback system. The driver cruises through a city, on a highway or through the country, with the goal of returning the best gas mileage. 
Kia had a similar green-minded simulator, but it competed with a video set-up that encouraged passers-by to dance around with the brand's spokes-hamsters. I didn't try it.

        
Porsche 918 RSR and Audi A6 Deliver Design Awards Sweep to VW Group
        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
Acura ILX Concept: Honda Enlists Civic for Entry-Level Luxury Duty
        
Cadillac Spells Its BMW 3 Series Fighter ATS
        
Christopher Chapman, Designer of BMW X5, to Head Hyundai Studios in California

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); VIRTUAL REALITY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); GAMING (57%) american le mans series; Cadillac; Detroit Auto Show; Ford Focus ST; honda; Hyundai; iRacing; Kia; Laguna Seca; mazda; video games; virtual gaming; Automobiles; North American International Auto Show; Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Hyundai Motor Co; Kia Motors Corp; Mazda Motor Corp; Detroit (Mich); Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Mazda Motor Corp|MZDAF|other-OTC; Auto Shows; entertainment

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Hyundai Motor Co; iRacing; Kia Motors Corp; Mazda Motor Corp

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; Mazda Motor Corp; MZDAF; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



474 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 2285 words

HEADLINE: Part 3: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid

BYLINE: MARK KANTROWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Mark Kantrowitz, an expert on paying for college and the founder of FinAid.org, is answering questions from readers of The Choice about financial aid applications. 

 BODY:
10:28 a.m. | Updated .
Mark Kantrowitz, a financial aid expert and founder of the Web sites FinAid.org and FastWeb.com, is taking questions this week on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa. Mr. Kantrowitz is the author of "Secrets to Winning a Scholarship," published last February.
In this third round of responses, Mr. Kantrowitz addresses questions on unemployment, the accuracy of net price calculators and putting twins through college.
Mr. Kantrowitz is still accepting questions. To submit one, use the comment box on the original post or start a new thread below. Answers will continue each day this week. (Questions may have been edited.) --
Q.
I was on unemployment for all of 2011. How will this affect my Fafsa application? - 
A.
The Fafsa bases total income on the sum of adjusted gross income and untaxed income. Unemployment benefits and severance pay will count as part of this. However, the United States Department of Education has issued guidance that allows colleges to treat the unemployment benefits received by an independent student as zero income since "the maximum unemployment benefits available would not have a material impact on the Expected Family Contribution of an independent student." The guidance issued by the United States Department of Education is ambiguous, and the logic used to justify the guidance is flawed. (For example, the unemployment benefits received by an independent student would have a material impact on the student's expected family contribution, or E.F.C., if the student's spouse isn't also unemployed.) In any event, unemployment usually leads to a lower E.F.C. and a greater eligibility for need-based financial aid.
Q.
 Is it still worthwhile to ask financial aid offices for an "early read," or will they just say to use the net price calculator?
Will there be any mechanism to inform potential students of the accuracy rate of each school's net price calculator after the first year? It seems like they should have some ratings similar to the on-time records of airlines, e.g., number whose actual net price was less than the net price estimated by this calculator. - 
A.
The net price calculator should be a first step in the conversation with the college. An important benefit of net price calculators is that they get the college affordability conversation started sooner.
The accuracy of net price calculators can vary significantly from one college to the next. Some calculators will use current data as the basis for their estimates, while others will use data that is one or two years old. There's also a trade-off between simplicity and accuracy, with some calculators asking less than a dozen questions while others ask more than four dozen questions. So the net price calculators should be used with caution. They are not yet a reliable way of comparing college costs.
Net price calculators are in their infancy. Colleges were required to provide net price calculators for the first time by Oct. 29, 2011. The federal government will be evaluating the effectiveness of the calculators over the next year or two. Congress may decide to modify the requirements for net price calculators based on the outcomes of such an evaluation.
Q.
 I am the parent of twin girls who will be starting college in the fall of 2013. We are just getting into the college selection process. We have savings and 529 plans for the girls, but still believe that we will need financial aid to pay for both of them to attend four-year colleges. Do students who are "multiples" often qualify for aid? I don't want to limit my children's choices of school, but how do I best figure out whether we can afford a private college for one or both of them? - 
Q.
What is the best way to call out the fact that we have twins both entering college next year? - 
A.
When a family has twins enrolling in college, the number in college data element on the Fafsa will be 2 instead of 1.
If both twins are applying to the same colleges, it is generally a good idea to write a letter to the colleges to tell them about this. Otherwise, the college might get confused and think that the Fafsa applications are duplicates for the same student. This letter can also ask the college about the availability of special scholarships or "buy one, get one free" discounts.
Families with two children in college at the same time will qualify for more financial aid than families with children who do not overlap in college. So even without special scholarships for multiples, twins and triplets have a financial advantage.
FinAid's list of unusual scholarships includes a short list of colleges that offer special scholarships or discounts for twins and triplets. These scholarships require both students to enroll at the college.
 The Twins Days Festival is held in Twinsburg, Ohio, (where else?) on the first full weekend in August each year. It can be a good source of information about scholarships for twins. The festival also offers its own scholarship for twins.
Q.
Working with my daughter on the Fafsa, and we're confused about the process of importing I.R.S. data (like income from my W-2) into the form. Schools have told us we must do this, and there are lots of caveats about the timing, but it's all very confusing, so far.
Also, for those of us in fixed-benefit state pension plans, it's very unclear how to quantify the value of pensions that don't have a current cash value, and will be calculated based on a formula (salary and years of service which will only be known in a few decades). Any advice about how to represent this fairly?
- 
A.
The I.R.S. data retrieval process is voluntary. Some colleges may be encouraging families to use the I.R.S. data retrieval process because it reduces the likelihood of the student's application being selected for verification.
The timing is tight, especially if you live in a state that has a very early deadline for state grants. Taxpayers sometimes don't receive W-2 and 1099 statements until the end of February. It may not be practical for a family to file their federal income tax returns early enough to use the I.R.S. data retrieval process by the deadlines for state grants.
The I.R.S. data retrieval tool should be available to families about two weeks after they file their federal income tax returns, if they file their income tax returns electronically.
As to your second question, pensions, like qualified retirement plans, are not reported as an asset on the Fafsa. The current year's contribution is reported as untaxed income on the Fafsa, but only if the amount of the contribution is discretionary. Mandatory contributions are not reported as untaxed income on the Fafsa.
Q.
My child checked the box that said he would be applying for need-based aid, but I'm sure we won't be eligible. Do we need to fill out the Fafsa anyhow in order to qualify for a National Merit Scholarship? - 
A.
Filing the Fafsa is not a prerequisite for the National Merit Scholarship program. Selection as a semifinalist is based on PSAT scores. The selection of finalists is based on a scholarship application form as well as test scores. However, some of the colleges that participate in the National Merit Scholarship program require students to file the Fafsa to receive a college-sponsored scholarship. Some students who win merit-based scholarships might also qualify for need-based financial aid, which might reduce the cost to the college for the scholarship.
Only about half of students selected as National Merit Finalists win scholarships.
It is best to file the Fafsa even if you think you won't qualify for need-based aid. Parents often underestimate eligibility for need-based aid and overestimate eligibility for merit-based scholarships. Filing the Fafsa is also a prerequisite for the federal Stafford and Parent PLUS loans.
Q.
I am getting ready to complete the Fafsa for two children. One is starting medical school in fall 2012, one is starting college.
Neither one will know the final school of choice, and its cost, until long after the Fafsa's are filed.
The sibling's tuition will be important to keeping our E.F.C. (expected family contribution) as low as possible for each child. But what do I list as the value of the sibling's tuition? The cost for the most expensive school they might attend? - 
A.
Sibling tuition is not reported on the Fafsa. Tuition at an elementary or secondary school is listed in the Higher Education Act of 1965 as an example of a special circumstance that might merit a professional judgment adjustment. College tuition is not normally considered as grounds for an adjustment, except in very unusual circumstances (e.g., the college might adjust for the extra costs associated with a special needs child). 
Q.
My parents' total income is $200,000. My brother is a second-year student at the University of Chicago with no financial aid. If I choose a private school again, do I have a chance to receive any aid? - 
A.
Having two children in college at the same time will significantly reduce the expected family contribution (E.F.C.) of both children. If the students do not have much income or assets of their own, the E.F.C. with both in college will be about half of the E.F.C. when just one child was enrolled in college. $200,000 is a lot of income, but with two students in college, the family might qualify for some financial aid if the students are enrolled at higher-cost colleges.
Q.
I own my own small business and file a Schedule C. What is the best way to minimize my adjusted growth income, or A.G.I., for purposes of Fafsa? Currently, my A.G.I. reflects all business profit, even what I hold in reserve for future business growth. So the A.G.I. does not accurately reflect the amount I draw for income. (I do not currently take a salary or wage, but rather draw income on a monthly basis based on that month's revenue.)
- 
A.
The income of a sole proprietorship may be offset by business expenses. Any remaining net revenue will count as income to the owner, even if the money is retained by the business.
One approach to avoid having this income count on the Fafsa would involve spending it on business expenses before the end of the year.
Another approach would involve restructuring the business as a non-pass-through entity, like a C corporation. The retained income would be ignored on the Fafsa because of the small business exclusion. But the higher income tax on the corporation's profits may offset all or part of the increased eligibility for need-based financial aid.
Q.
After we completed the Fafsa and the C.S.S. Profile we decided to secure a home equity line of credit to consolidate some consumer debt. Do we need to make revisions to these forms? Will having the H.E.L.O.C. work against us for financial aid? - 
A.
A home equity loan yields a cash balance in a bank account that counts as an asset on the Fafsa. A home equity line of credit (H.E.L.O.C.) does not yield a cash balance until the borrower draws upon the line of credit.
In neither case is the cash balance offset by the amount of debt. The net worth of any asset is calculated by subtracting the amount of debt secured by the asset from the current market value of the asset. A home equity loan or H.E.L.O.C. is secured by the home, not the cash. Since the family home is not a reportable asset on the Fafsa, the Fafsa does not consider any mortgage debt secured by the home.
If the family has used the home equity loan or H.E.L.O.C. to pay down other consumer debt, leaving no leftover cash, it will not affect the expected family contribution (E.F.C.). The remaining credit limit on the H.E.L.O.C. will likewise not affect the E.F.C., just as the credit limit on a credit card is not considered by the Fafsa.
Q.
My husband and I are divorced and live on opposite sides of the United States. My daughter will be graduating from a high school in my state, taking a gap year, and then wants to attend a college in her father's state. Is there any way for her to establish residency with her father in such a way to satisfy Fafsa that his income should be used and satisfy the college that she is an in-state student? It is likely he will seek to have her emancipated the moment she turns 18. - 
A.
The rules concerning state residency for in-state tuition vary from state to state. Generally, a dependent student must have at least one parent who has been a state resident for at least one year prior to enrollment, sometimes two years. Some states require the parent to be the custodial parent when the parents are divorced.
When a student's parents are divorced, only one parent is responsible for completing the Fafsa. This parent is the one with whom the student lived the most during the 12 months ending on the Fafsa application date. (If the child lived equally with both parents, it is based on whichever parent provided more support to the student.) College financial aid administrators may question the arrangement if the student graduated from a high school in a different state from the parent. So it will be important to maintain documentation that demonstrates that the student lived with her father for more than half time during the year before she files the Fafsa.
Emancipation for child support purposes is not the same as an emancipated minor for federal or state student aid purposes. This should not affect eligibility for in-state tuition.

        
Part 4: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
        
Part 2: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
        
Part 1: Answers on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
        
Seeking Your Questions on the Fafsa, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid
        
Last of 7 Parts: Answers to Your Questions on Student Loans and Scholarships

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); WRITERS (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (68%) FAFSA; kantrowitzfafsa2012; Mark Kantrowitz; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Guidance Office

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



475 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Getting a Degree: Less Rigor, More Value

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: There are reasons to believe that college has become easier over the last few decades. And yet in that time, the market value of a college degree has been rising. How can this disconnect be explained? 

 BODY:
There are reasons to believe that college has become easier over the last few decades. And yet during the same time period, the market value of a college degree has risen. Why?
I've been puzzling over this question for the last few weeks, particularly since so many readers have felt cheated by their increasingly expensive college educations. And indeed, by many measures, the typical college education does not seem nearly as demanding as it was a generation ago.
Students spend less time studying and don't need to work as hard or learn as much toget an A. In the past, college was also less accessible to students who went to bad high schools, were poor, had learning disabilities or were otherwise underprepared for higher education. Today more of these less advantaged students are being funneled into college, even though many colleges are still unprepared to get them up to speed. The result, some professors lament, is that young people get to toss up their mortarboards without ever having learned basic writing skills.
For all these reasons, it would seem that having a college degree has become less special or elite in the job market.
And yet the return on investment on a college degree has risen sharply -- even beyond the job gains demonstrated by latest Labor Department report. Here's a chartshowing the ratio of wages for college grads compared to those whose highest education is a high school diploma:
As you can see, for both sexes the wage gap between college-educated workers and noncollege-educated workers has been growing.
During this last weekend's American Economic Association conference, I asked a lot of economists how to explain this divergence.
A number of them said that technological progress at least partly explained why having more education had brought increasingly higher returns. Changes in technology have amplified the productivity of the most highly educated workers, who are more likely to have been trained in that technology. For example, college grads are more likely to know how to write software.
This probably explains at least part of the earnings gain, although if many college alumni have not actually learned those higher-tech skills -- because of underpreparation in high school, poor college classes, less time studying, whatever -- the effect would be limited.
A related theory is that technology has improved the efficiency of the college education itself. Word processing and the Internet have made it easier to learn more things more quickly and to spend less time poking around the library or retyping papers. That means it's unfair to look at declining study times and conclude that students are learning less than their counterparts a generation ago. Perhaps they're even learning more!
The problem with this theory, says Philip Babcock at the University of California, Santa Barbara, is that the steepest declines in the number of study hours occurred from 1961 to 1981, which is well before the widespread adoption of personal computers and the Internet. And the teaching of some subjects, like calculus, probably has not benefited much from the Internet age.
Professor Babcock says another theory is that less-skilled workers have become more dispensable, thereby making college grads look more valuable by comparison.
Many less-educated workers have been employed in routine tasks that are now becoming largely automated and, in many cases, sent abroad. Additionally, some public policies that helped support the earnings of lower-skilled workers have become less generous over time. The minimum wage, for example, has not kept pace with inflation.
David Autor, a labor economist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposes another explanation: colleges are getting credit for the increasingly valuable schooling their alumni receive graduation.
"A lot of the rise in the college premium is due to the rise in the postcollege premium," he said.
He's right, too. The chart below shows how much inflation-adjusted median weekly earnings have changed for workers whose highest education level is a bachelor's, master's, professional (like J.D. or M.B.A.) or doctoral degree. The earliest numbers I could find, courtesy of Steve Hipple at the Labor Department, were from 1994:
As you can see, weekly wages for workers who graduated from college but did not receive further schooling rose about 5.3 percent between 1994 and 2010. Workers whose highest degree was a master's received about the same raise during this period.
For workers with a doctorate, on the other hand, weekly paychecks grew 7.2 percent after adjusting for inflation. The biggest gains went to those with professional degrees, who earned 10.8 percent more in 2010 than they did in 1994.
These trends perhaps explain the disconnect between new college graduates' assessments of their own marketability and the growing employment and wages of all college-educated workers. Even so, though, the bachelor's is still becoming more valuable on its own; a 5.3 percent raise is nothing to sneeze at.
Readers: Do you have other theories about why bachelor's degrees have become more valuable over time?

        
Do College Grads Earn Less Now Than 40 Years Ago?
        
College-Educated Workers Gaining Jobs, High School Grads Losing Them
        
Want a Job? Go to College, and Don't Major in Architecture
        
College Is Worth It
        
It's Not Just the Degree, but What You Study

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (88%); EQUAL PAY (86%); GENDER EQUALITY (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (66%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Colleges and Universities; continuing education; employment; higher education; is college worth it; skilled workers; wage gap; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



476 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Eight Campuses in Georgia University System to Combine

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: A university system seeks to phase out the names (and administrators) of some campuses, as a way to save money and make it easier for students to seek out additional professors and services. 

 BODY:
The board of regents of the University System of Georgia has approved a plan by the chancellor, Henry Huckaby, to consolidate 8 of the system's 35 colleges and universities.
The effort will combine four pairs of institutions serving some of the nearly 318,000 students in the Georgia system: Gainesville State College andNorth Georgia College & State University(Dahlonega); Middle Georgia College (Cochran) and Macon State College; Waycross Collegeand South Georgia College(Douglas); and Augusta State University and Georgia Health Sciences University.
While the physical campuses will remain, the names of the fused institutions may change.
The plan to consolidate, reported last week on the news Web site Inside Higher Education, was announced Jan. 6, and met with consternation from some students and campus officials. The mergers were approved on Tuesday and officials hope to complete integration by the fall of 2013.
John Millsaps, a spokesman for the university system of Georgia board of regents, said in a telephone interview Wednesday that it was too soon to know what the combining of the schools would mean for applicants. But he said that the consolidations were largely a result of economic woes. He said the system had faced $1 billion cuts in state funding while adding some 48,000 students in recent years.
He emphasized that the plan was devised with students in mind, as the group deliberating the idea sought to deliver "access to more programs, degree programs, and resources" than are available under the current system.
Mr. Millsaps also thought the new arrangement would lead to greater opportunities for each institution. He said that Waycross College, with a student body of 964, did not have a physics professor. Once the college merges with South Georgia College, a college of 2,270 students some 30 miles away, students at Waycross would have access to a visiting professor or electronically delivered classes (he said it was too soon to say if students might commute).
Only administrative positions, like redundant college presidents and chief financial officers, would be cut. The resulting funds could be funneled back to the schools' teaching efforts.
Mr. Millsaps thought the added academic options could spur admissions for the consolidated schools. He said he was not yet aware of the response on individual campuses, but that students were welcome to comment on the Board of Regents' Web site.
"We're not using the word merger because that means typically one is consumed into another," Mr. Millsaps said. "We're using the word consolidation because you create a new entity that does not currently exist."
Mr. Millsaps said incoming students had not yet been informed directly, but "obviously we're putting the news out about this."
We invite Choice readers from Georgia, and elsewhere, to comment on these developments. Please use the box below. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%) University System of Georgia

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



477 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Hostess, Maker of Twinkies, Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Hostess Brands, the baking company known for sweet treats like Twinkies and Ding Dongs, filed for bankruptcy on Wednesday, just three years after emerging from an earlier restructuring process. 

 BODY:
8:22 p.m. | Updated 
Hostess Brands, known for sweet treats like Twinkies and Ding Dongs, is back in Chapter 11. 
The company went from cream filling to bankruptcy filing on Wednesday, just three years after emerging from an earlier restructuring.
The company has been struggling under the weight of an $860 million debt load and soaring expenses tied to its labor force. Hostess has up to 100,000 creditors, chief among them labor unions and pension funds that represent the company's employees, according to the Chapter 11 petition filed in United States Bankruptcy Court in New York.
"We remain hopeful that we can reach an agreement that will allow us to amend our labor contracts so that we can emerge from Chapter 11 as a highly competitive company that provides secure jobs for our employees," the company's president and chief executive, Brian J. Driscoll, said in a statement. If the company is unable to reach a new labor deal, Hostess said it would ask the bankruptcy court to halt the existing agreement.
But those with sweet-tooths across the country need not fret. Hostess said its return to bankruptcy would not disrupt the company's sale of baked goods. And executives are optimistic that, as it did last time around, Hostess will climb out of bankruptcy.
"With generations of loyal consumers, numerous iconic products and a talented and experienced work force, Hostess Brands has tremendous inherent strengths to build upon," Mr. Driscoll said.
Hostess, a privately held company based in Irving, Tex., has built an expansive list of products over the decades, perhaps none more craved than Twinkies. In addition, the company makes Wonder and Nature's Pride bread, Drake's snack cakes and other well-known brands.
Twinkies, the cream-filled sponge cakes, have been a guilty pleasure for decades. Jimmy Dewar, the creator of the tasty treat, once remarked: "Twinkies was the best darn-tootin' idea I ever had."
But over the last several years, concerns grew that the baked goods might outlive the 82-year old company itself. In 2004, confronted with escalating labor costs and fluctuating prices of flour and other ingredients, the company filed for Chapter 11. Hostess, then known as the Interstate Bakeries Corporation, completed the restructuring process in February 2009, when Ripplewood Holdings, a New York private equity firm, seized control.
The company faces similar troubles today.
While it recorded net revenue of about $2.5 billion in the fiscal year ended May 28, 2011, it posted a $341 million net loss. Burdensome debt and labor costs, compounded by the lingering economic downturn, ultimately prompted the bankruptcy, according to court documents.
About 80 percent of the company's 19,000 employees belong to a dozen separate unions, most notably the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Mr. Driscoll explained in an affidavit attached to the bankruptcy filing.
In particular, Hostess said pension and medical benefits, as well as "restrictive work rules," were cutting into profit. The company paid about $52 million in workers' compensation claims in the fiscal year ended May 28, 2011, the affidavit said.
Management sought cuts, but never sealed a deal with the unions. Competitors, Mr. Driscoll said, have lighter labor restrictions. For Hostess to achieve long-term viability, he said, it must "achieve dramatic change to their labor agreements."
The unions have moved to blunt some of the contentions, calling on Hostess executives to make their own compensation concessions.
"Our members have already given at the well, and this time it will take sacrifices among all parties - management, lenders, equity holders and employees - to restructure Hostess into a viable enterprise that is well positioned for future growth," Dennis Raymond, director of the Teamsters Bakery and Laundry Conference, said in the statement.
Hostess acknowledged that its business model was in need of a shake-up. Mr. Driscoll outlined plans to overhaul the company, with an eye toward ultimately breaking free of the bankruptcy process. The company, he said, aims to reduce its heavy debt load, obtain new capital investments to update its production and withdraw completely from multi-employer pension plans to "achieve relief from the crippling costs of these plans."
"With these changes, we can access capital to reinvest in our company again and begin to level the playing field with our competitors," Mr. Driscoll said in the company statement.
Perella Weinberg Partners is serving as a financial adviser to Hostess, while Jones Day is its law firm, according to the Chapter 11 filing.
In 2010, the company hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to explore a possible sale to Hershey, Pepperidge Farm and private equity companies, including Blackstone. But the potential suitors balked.
For now, Hostess has secured bankruptcy financing of up to $75 million from a group of lenders led by Silver Point Finance, according to the filing. That will allow the company to continue operating its bakeries and 570 bakery outlet stores - extending the already long shelf life of Twinkies.
Hostess Brands, the baking company known for sweet treats like Twinkies and Ding Dongs, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, just three years after emerging from an earlier restructuring process.
The company, which has assets of roughly $1 billion, has been struggling under the weight of a debt load of about $860 million and soaring expenses tied to its labor force. Hostess has up to 100,000 creditors, and its chief unsecured creditors are labor unions and pension funds that represent the company's employees, according to the Chapter 11 petition filed in United States Bankruptcy Court in New York.
"We remain hopeful that we can reach an agreement that will allow us to amend our labor contracts so that we can emerge from Chapter 11 as a highly competitive company that provides secure jobs for our employees," the company's president and chief executive, Brian J. Driscoll, said in a statement. The statement added that Hostess did not anticipate disruptions to its normal sale of baked goods.
"With generations of loyal consumers, numerous iconic products and a talented and experienced workforce, Hostess Brands has tremendous inherent strengths to build upon," Mr. Driscoll said.
Hostess, a privately held company based in Irving, Tex., has built an expansive list of products over the decades. In addition to selling items like Twinkies, the company makes Wonder Bread and other ubiquitous brands.
But in 2004, confronted with escalating labor costs and fluctuating prices of flour and other ingredients, the company filed for Chapter 11. Hostess, then known as the Interstate Bakeries Corporation, completed the restructuring process in February 2009, when Ripplewood Holdings, a New York private equity firm, seized control.
Founded in 1930, the company faces similar troubles today. While it recorded net revenue of about $2.5 billion in the fiscal year ended May 28, it posted a $341 million net loss. Burdensome debt and labor costs prompted the company's decline, according to bankruptcy court documents.
About 80 percent of the company's 19,000 employees belong to a dozen separate unions, most notably the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Mr. Driscoll explained in an affidavit attached to the bankruptcy filing.
In particular, the company said pension and medical benefits costs as well as "restrictive work rules" were eating into profit. The company paid about $52 million in workers' compensation claims in the fiscal year ended May 28, the affidavit said.
The Teamsters union issued its own statement, defending employees and calling on the company's executives to make their own compensation concessions. 
"Our members have already given at the well, and this time it will take sacrifices among all parties -- management, lenders, equity holders and employees -- to restructure Hostess into a viable enterprise that is well-positioned for future growth," Dennis Raymond, director of the Teamsters Bakery and Laundry Conference, said in the statement. 
But Mr. Driscoll said competitors had fewer labor restrictions, and thus the upper hand. For Hostess to achieve long-term viability, he said, it must "achieve dramatic change to their labor agreements."
He outlined plans to overhaul the company, with an eye toward ultimately breaking free of the bankruptcy process. The company, Mr. Driscoll said, aims to reduce its heavy debt load, obtain new capital investments to update its production and withdraw completely from multiemployer pension plans to "achieve relief from the crippling costs of these plans."
"With these changes, we can access capital to reinvest in our company again and begin to level the playing field with our competitors," he said in the company statement.
For now, Hostess has secured bankruptcy financing of up to $75 million from a group of lenders led by Silver Point Finance, according to the filing. That will allow the company to continue operating its bakeries and 570 bakery outlet stores.
Perella Weinberg is serving as a financial adviser to Hostess, while Jones Day is its law firm, according to the Chapter 11 filing.

        
Kodak Hires Legal Adviser Amid Talk of Bankruptcy
        
Nationwide Pays Huge Premium for Harleysville

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (91%); BAKERIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PETITIONS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%) Hostess; Jones Day; Ripplewood Holdings; Twinkies; Bakeries and Baked Products; Bankruptcies; Hostess Brands; Food & Beverage; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy

COMPANY: HOSTESS BRANDS INC (85%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Hostess Brands; Ripplewood Holdings

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (85%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (85%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



478 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Financial Planning Calculators for Those with Special Needs

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Special needs calculators from Merrill Lynch and others can help families start planning for complex financial situations. 

 BODY:
Families with children who have special needs or disabilities face even bigger hurdles than most people when it comes to planning for their financial futures. Merrill Lynch Wealth Management has introduced a free online special needs calculator to help parents and guardians get started in evaluating their situation.
People with special needs and disabilities are living longer due to better medical care. That has left many families unprepared for the long-term costs of caring for these children while also planning for their own health care and retirement needs, said Scott MacDonald, a Merrill Lynch certified special needs adviser in Modesto, Calif. Roughly 21 million families in the United States are caring for a member with special needs, according to statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The Merrill calculator analyzes information about the individual's income, expenses and and life expectancy, and comes up with an estimate of a lump sum needed to continue the child's care after a parent or guardian retires. The results also show how much extra money must be saved monthly to meet the goal. The calculator, accessible via computer, tablet or smartphone, is part of Merrill Lynch's special needs financial services program, established in 1999.
The tool factors in variables like the projected income, including any federal or state benefits, and expenses, like housing, transportation, special education and health care. The calculator also provides the option to modify assumptions, including the rate of inflation. Inflation is a crucial variable for people with disabilities or special needs because they often have higher health care costs, and medical inflation is typically much higher than the overall inflation rate, said Mike Duckworth, a Merrill Lynch adviser in Pittsburgh.
Mary Anne Ehlert, founder and president of Protected Tomorrows Inc., which helps families plan for the care of members with disabilities, took a look at the calculator at my request. "It's a basic tool that would give a financially astute person a starting point for personal finance planning," she said in an e-mail. (Protected Tomorrows offers an online planning tool for an initial cost of about $130).
The Merrill tool appears similar to other free online calculators, Ms. Ehlert said, like one provided by the insurer MetLife. MetLife's tool asks for more detailed expenses at the start, like any amounts needed for respite care. The Merrill Lynch tool first requests annual expenses as a lump sum in broad categories to help get families started, then allows users the option of adding more detail if they wish; additional help is available in a free workbook, also on the site.
Financial planning is especially important for people with special needs because it's possible to protect funds -- like money willed by a grandparent -- for the individual using a special needs trust, Mr. Duckworth said. Without such a carefully structured trust, the inherited funds could interfere with the individual's eligibility for government benefits like Medicaid. The calculator, he said, can give families a starting point for considering the planning process.
Do you have a family member with special needs? Does the calculator seem helpful to you?

        
Some Tips for Unemployed Older Americans
        
More Advice for Pre-Retirees Coming to 401(k)'s
        
BrightScope's Top-Rated 401(k) Plans for 2011
        
More From the Financial Pro Who Lost His Home
        
Pose Retirement Questions to a Financial Planner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); GRANDPARENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (69%); TABLET COMPUTERS (66%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) Financial Planners; Retirement; Calculators; Disabilities; Families and Family Life; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Longevity; Merrill Lynch & Co; MetLife Inc; MetLife Inc|MET|NYSE

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%) Merrill Lynch & Co; MetLife Inc

TICKER: MetLife Inc; MET; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



479 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: A Deadline for Fracking Comments

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: New York State wraps up the public comment period on regulations it has proposed for policing a controversial gas extraction method. 

 BODY:
As if the recent series of hearings and the invitation for written comments from the public were not enough, contingents from both sides of the fracking issue in New York State organized rallies and press conferences this week in anticipation of the close of the comment period on the state's proposed gas drilling regulations on Wednesday.
On Tuesday, gas industry representatives and supporters of the extraction process known as horizontal hydraulic fracturing hand-delivered thousands of letters to state officials in Albany arguing for the economic benefits of horizontal hydraulic fracturing. The drilling method involves injecting chemically treated water into shale formations underground under high pressure to release natural gas.
"Capitalizing on the tremendous opportunity offered by Marcellus Shale development will help reduce our dependence on foreign oil, produce private-sector jobs and attract investment", said Heather Briccetti, the president of the Business Council of New York State, which is part of a pro-fracking coalition that calls itself Clean Growth Now.

Not to be outdone, environmental and grass-roots groups hand-delivered more than 12,000 comments, nearly 500 letters and a petition with more than 20,000 signatures to the state Department of Environmental Conservation and Gov. Andrew Cuomo's office. The gist of the feedback was that the state proposal is still deficient after revisions and needs significant further work.
 "The comment period on New York's flawed fracking proposals is almost over, but our fight to protect our waters and communities goes on," said Katherine Nadeau, water and natural resources program director for Environmental Advocates of New York. 
The Department of Environmental Conservation is accepting comment at its Web site or by mail received or postmarked by Wednesday (Jan. 11): dSGEIS Comments, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, 625 Broadway, Albany, N.Y., 12233-6510.

        
To the Battlements, Mark Ruffalo
        
State Fracking Hearings Drew 6,000, N.Y. Says
        
Fracking Forum Moves to New York City
        
The Fracking Divide: Who Will Prevail in N.Y.?
        
N.Y. Advisory Panel Delays Report on Fracking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (94%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PETITIONS (66%) Department of Environmental Conservation; fracking; horizontal hydraulic fracturing; New York State; Cuomo, Andrew M; Hydraulic Fracturing; Shale; Business Council of New York; Marcellus Shale; Conventional Energy; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (56%) Business Council of New York; Department of Environmental Conservation

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (88%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Marcellus Shale; New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



480 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: No Holiday Cheer for PC Makers - Except Apple

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Personal computer sales to consumers were weak in the fourth quarter, according to research reports. So the major PC makers that rely most on the consumer market, Hewlett-Packard and Acer, suffered. The exception to the general weakness was Apple, whose sales surged again. 

 BODY:
 The year-end holiday sales season typically produces a bounce in personal computer sales, but not this time.
PC shipments worldwide slipped a bit in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to reports Wednesday from the International Data Corporation and Gartner.
The numbers from the two research firms vary by percentage points here and there, but both paint the same picture. In looking at the performance of individual PC makers, the major companies that rely most on the consumer market got hurt -- Hewlett-Packard and Acer.
Apple, not surprisingly, is the exception. It does not rank in the top five PC makers by volume of machines sold worldwide, but in the United States, Apple is No. 3. IDC estimated Apple's growth at 18 percent compared with the year-earlier quarter, while Gartner put the rate at 21 percent. Apple holds 11 percent of the American market.
H.P. remains the largest PC company in the world, with a 16 percent market share, according to both Gartner and IDC. But H.P.'s global shipments fell 16 percent in the fourth quarter. The company depends on the consumer market more than rivals like Lenovo and Dell, which sell mostly to businesses.
But H.P., analysts say, was also hurt by a self-inflicted wound. It was not until the end of October, they note, that it shelved earlier plans to consider spinning off or selling its PC business. "The uncertainty about the future of H.P.'s PC business depressed sales, especially with corporate customers," Mikako Kitagawa, a Gartner analyst, said in an interview.
The No. 2 supplier, Lenovo, turned in a strong fourth quarter, posting a 37 percent surge in shipments, according to IDC. The No. 3 vendor, Dell, increased shipments more than 7 percent, while No. 4 Acer slipped by 8 percent, IDC estimated.
Besides a soft economy in the United States and a struggling one in Europe, consumer PC sales in those markets were also depressed by tablet computers and smartphones, which can do much of the computing tasks of desktop and notebook PCs.
Floods in Thailand, a large producer of disk drives, appeared to have a limited impact on sales by the major PC companies in the fourth quarter.
.

        
Dell Still Struggles; H.P. and Acer Grow
        
Bipartisan Agreement on PC Sales
        
PC Sales Up, but . . .
        
Economy Hits U.S. PC Sales, but Notebook Growth Remains Strong
        
Tablets Continue to Dent PC Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (99%); COMPUTER MAKERS (94%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MARKET SHARE (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SMARTPHONES (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%) Acer; Apple; Dell; Gartner; Hewlett-Packard; IDC; Computers and the Internet; Desktop Computers; Acer Inc; Apple Incorporated; Hewlett-Packard Company; Lenovo Group; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ; Hewlett-Packard Company|HPQ|NYSE; Lenovo Group|LNVGY|NQB; Personal Computing

COMPANY: APPLE INC (86%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (72%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Acer Inc; Apple Incorporated; Hewlett-Packard Company; Lenovo Group

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%) Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; Lenovo Group; LNVGY; NQB

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



481 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: New Rules on Swaps Will Protect Big Traders

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators agreed to require brokerage firms to segregate the accounts of swaps customers from company money. But the rule would not have prevented MF Global's loss of customer money. 

 BODY:
8:16 p.m. | Updated 
Wall Street investors will receive significant new protections under a plan adopted by federal regulators on Wednesday, an overhaul that comes in the wake of the collapse of MF Global.
When MF Global filed for bankruptcy last year, some $1.2 billion in customer money vanished from the brokerage firm. The firm's futures customers, farmers and hedge funds alike, are still without nearly a third of their money.
But the new rules would not prevent a brokerage firm from repeating MF Global's mistake of misusing customer money, nor would they apply to any futures industry clients like those of MF Global.
Instead, the changes affect only customers who trade swaps, complex derivative contracts that allow companies to hedge exposure to interest rates and other financial products. These investors are usually Wall Street banks, hedge funds and large companies.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 4 to 1 on Wednesday to adopt the overhaul.
The rules seek to protect swaps customer accounts by segregating them from a brokerage firm's money. And when a swaps customer defaults at a bankrupt brokerage firm, the new rule will keep other customers' cash off limits.
"Today's segregation rule is an important step forward in protecting customers and reducing the risk of swaps trading," Gary Gensler, the agency's chairman, said at a meeting in Washington on Wednesday.
"Segregation of customer funds is the core foundation of customer protection in the commodity futures and swaps markets."
The commission has spent more than a year writing some 50 rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory crackdown passed in response to the financial crisis.
On Wednesday, the agency also took up final rules that detailed standards for swaps traders and outlined how such firms should register with regulators. Commissioners voted 4 to 1 to adopt those rules.
Separately, the agency voted on an initial plan known as the Volcker Rule to bar banks from using their own money to place trades. Named for Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, the agency's proposal comes three months after several other regulators first voted on the rule.
The C.F.T.C. approved the plan on a vote of 3 to 2.
Even amid this wave of arcane rules, the agency's new customer segregation policy stands out as one of its most complex.
Though the rule requires brokerage firms to keep their house accounts separate from customer cash, customer money can be pooled together as long as the firm is not in bankruptcy. Under the rule, brokerage firms must turn over, at least once a day, data indicating that their customer accounts are safe.
Such protections mirror longtime rules for the futures industry; the swaps industry had been largely unregulated for decades. Unlike in the futures industry, however, when a brokerage firm fails in the swaps industry because one of its customers defaults, cash from customers in good standing cannot be raided.
Jill Sommers, a Republican commissioner who voted against the rule, said she was wary of affording special treatment to swaps customers.
"I'm very concerned," she said, of adopting "protections that do not apply" to futures customers. "I do not accept this piecemeal approach to customer protection as a step in the right direction."
Alluding to the MF Global debacle, Ms. Sommers added that "due to the recent events we need to rethink this approach so we can provide adequate protections in a comprehensive and coherent way."
Mr. Gensler indicated he was open to extending the rules to the futures industry. But first, he said, his staff must analyze such changes and hold public meetings to ponder the overhaul.
And the changes, some commissioners said, are not a cure-all even for swaps.
Some giant money managers like Fidelity Investments have pushed the agency to go even further to protect swaps customers, saying customer money should not be pooled at all. The MF Global case has highlighted that unless each customer account is held separately, it is difficult to detect a misuse of client cash.
Scott O'Malia, a Republican commissioner who said he reluctantly supported the rule, said that it would not prevent a repeat of MF Global.
"This rule-making does not address MF Global," he said. "By its own admission, this rule making only protects against fellow-customer risk."
But the agency's Democratic commissioners defended the rule as an initial step toward safer customers and better markets.
"We shouldn't let the perfect be the enemy of the good," said Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner.

        
Corzine Defends His Actions at MF Global
        
MF Global's Collapse Spurs Curbs on Brokers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Bart Chilton; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Gary Gensler; Jill Sommers; MF Global; Scott O'Malia; Chilton, Bart; Gensler, Gary; Sommers, Jill E; Futures and Options Trading; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; MF Global Ltd; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; MF Global Ltd

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

PERSON: Chilton, Bart; Gensler, Gary; Sommers, Jill E

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



482 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Highlights of New Hampshire's Vote

BYLINE: MONIKA L. MCDERMOTT


HIGHLIGHT: A breakdown of support for the Republican candidates among the state's voters. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney's win was fueled by a strong showing across the board. 
According to surveys of voters leaving the polls on Tuesday, Mr. Romney not only managed to hang onto the conservative voter profile he won in 2008, he also branched out to win among ideological moderates, and lost only narrowly to Ron Paul among independents. He won a plurality of voters who expressed worry about the nation's economic future, and those citing the economy as their primary concern, as well as those who are financially steady.
He also won both fiscal and social conservatives. As a further sign that Mr. Romney was able to be most things to most people, he won voters who said they preferred politicians who stand by their principles "no matter what," as well as those who prefer politicians who are willing to compromise to get things done.
Mitt Romney emerged not only as the winner but also as the preferred nominee among Republican primary voters, according to a survey of voters exiting the New Hampshire polls.
A majority of voters - roughly 6 of 10 - said they would be satisfied with a Romney nomination. Roughly 4 in 10 voters expressed the same sentiment about Mr. Paul, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum. 
His strength stems from his perceived electability, with more than half saying he is the most likely candidate to defeat President Obama in November, and that was the most important candidate quality to voters (over moral character, experience and conservatism).
Ron Paul 
Young voters helped lift Mr. Paul to a strong showing in New Hampshire, as in Iowa. Around half of his supporters in New Hampshire were under the age of 45. Similarly 54 percent of his Iowa supporters were under 45.
Turnout, however, was again the key - Mr. Paul could have done better if he had gotten young voters to the polls in greater numbers. In fact, fewer showed up this year than in 2008. Only 31 percent of all voters were under 45 in this contest; in 2008, 40 percent of voters in the Republican New Hampshire primary were under 45. While Mr. Paul did win nearly two-fifths of first-time Republican primary voters, they made up just over 10 percent of the overall electorate.
Rick Santorum
Mr. Santorum's strong second-place finish in Iowa was not enough to propel him into contention in New Hampshire mainly because of stark differences between the two states' Republican voters or caucusgoers. 
But Mr. Romney also was able to hold his own among key conservative constituencies, beating Mr. Santorum among white evangelicals by around 7 points, and self-described very conservative voters by the same margin. Perhaps most telling, Mr. Romney even won the vote of those who described themselves specifically as social conservatives - Mr. Santorum's strength - by 15 points (5 points among the very socially conservative).
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. 
Mr. Huntsman was blessed with a late surge of support, but cursed by his similarities to his former boss, President Obama. Six in 10 Huntsman voters said they decided whom to support over the course of the few days leading up to the election - showing late-game strength.
But it was not strong enough - Mr. Huntsman handily won groups of voters satisfied with the Obama administration and opposed to the Tea Party. These groups, however, were vastly outnumbered. Similarly, he won self-described Democrats by a nearly 20-point margin over Ron Paul - but they were only about 5 percent of the vote. While he did relatively well among independent voters, he still trailed both Mr. Paul and Mr. Romney.
Newt Gingrich 
Mr. Gingrich finished out the New Hampshire primary with voters expressing electability concerns. Nearly two-thirds said they would be dissatisfied if he were to win the nomination. When asked which candidate would be most likely to beat Mr. Obama, fewer than 10 percent choose Mr. Gingrich, who trails not only Mr. Romney, but also Mr. Hunstman and Mr. Paul. His strongest showing, however, was among the most conservative voters, which could bode better for him as the contest turns to the South. 
Granite State Voters
Half of the Republican primary voters were Tea Party supporters, but this ended up benefiting Mr. Romney. Despite Mr. Gingrich's best attempts to woo these voters, Mr. Romney won 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters - more than three times Mr. Gingrich's support from this group.
In the end, more than 40 percent of Tea Party supporters chose beating Mr. Obama as the most important candidate quality to them, and among that group Mr. Romney got a solid majority. In surprising contrast, only 19 percent of Tea Party supporters said they were looking for a "true conservative."
Economically, the state's voters are doing all right. Two-thirds of primary voters said they are holding steady financially, and fewer than 1 in 5 feel they are falling behind. This does not stop them from worrying about the national economy, however. Two-thirds are very worried about the direction of the national economy over the next few years, and another quarter are somewhat worried. The economy was far and away voters' biggest concern coming to the polls, and nearly half of these voters went for Mr. Romney.
New Hampshire's traditionally famous retail politics left a lot of voters out in the cold this time. Just under half of primary voters reported having never been contacted by the campaigns of the candidate they supported. Mr. Huntsman's focused efforts in New Hampshire do not appeared to have paid off in terms of contact with voters. Only 4 in 10 Huntsman supporters were contacted by his campaign, compared to majorities of Paul and Romney voters. 
The New Hampshire primary poll was based on 2,760 questionnaires completed by voters on Tuesday evening as they left voting places throughout the state. The poll was conducted by Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News.
The results are based on interviews with voters entering randomly selected precinct sites and are subject to a potential sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Primary Day, like the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

        
More Polls Cement Romney's Lead in New Hampshire
        
Romney Keeps Steady Lead in New Hampshire
        
Gingrich Holds Strong Lead in South Carolina Poll
        
For Romney's Rivals, New Hampshire Is Crucial
        
Just Where Are Those Voters?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (50%) Edison Research; exit polls; New Hampshire; primary; Polls and Public Opinion; Republican Party; Polling

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RON PAUL (89%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); JON HUNTSMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



483 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The campaign now moves to three states - South Carolina, Florida and Nevada - hit hard by the recession, which could prove a challenge for Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
Now comes the economic-bust phase of the Republican primaries.
Iowa and New Hampshire, the first two states to hold nominating contests, are both among six states with the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. Their economic strength benefited Mitt Romney, who has performed much better with affluent, white-collar voters than with those who are struggling, according to exit polls.
Starting Wednesday, the campaign moves to three states - South Carolina, Florida and Nevada - that have among the country's 10 highest unemployment rates. Nevada and Florida have been centers of the housing bust. South Carolina's coastal areas also suffered from the housing bust, and its inland areas hemorrhaged manufacturing jobs from 2000 to 2009.
http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2012/01/11/blogs/caucus-economies-web-graphic/caucus-economies-web-graphic-blog480.jpg
Mr. Romney, who has won two consecutive victories and has more money and endorsements than his rivals, remains a strong front-runner for the Republican nomination. But his relative weakness among the voters who will dominate the coming primaries will make the next few days intriguing.
If all of his rivals remain in the race and outside conservative leaders - like those gathering at a major evangelical meeting this weekend- fail to agree on their best alternative, Mr. Romney will have a better chance of winning South Carolina with much less than 50 percent of the vote. In that case, he could wrap up the nomination very quickly. 
If one or more rivals drop out or a single obvious alternative begins to emerge, the blue collar vote could coalesce, which would make Mr. Romney's task trickier and could at least extend the nomination race.
The dynamic was similar in Iowa and New Hampshire - though considerably friendlier to Mr. Romney. According to exit polls, Mr. Romney won 47 percent of New Hampshire voters who live in households with at least $100,000 in income, more than twice the share of any other candidate. He won 31 percent of those in households with less than $50,000 in income, tied with Ron Paul. 
In New Hampshire - which had the nation's highest median household income in 2010, thanks partly to a well-educated population and a large health care sector - those $100,000-and-up households made up more than one third of the electorate. In South Carolina, which had the eighth-lowest household income, they will make up a considerably smaller share.

        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Does McCain's Endorsement Really Help Romney?
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments
        
What if Perry Skips the Debates?
        
Perry Fades Into Background in Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); HEALTH CARE (50%); RELIGION (50%) 2012; economy; mitt romney; primaries; Unemployment; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



484 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: 2 Securities Heads Are Latest to Leave Goldman

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The retirements of Edward K. Eisler and David B. Heller are the latest high-level departures from Goldman Sachs, which is going through a post-financial crisis transition. 

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. | Updated 
Goldman Sachs, which is going through a post-financial crisis transition that has crimped its earnings power, is losing two more high-level executives.
The longtime partners Edward K. Eisler and David B. Heller, who both lead Goldman's influential securities division, are leaving the bank, according to an internal memo sent to staff members on Wednesday.
The departures turned heads on Wall Street because it was unusual for two divisional heads to retire on the same day. And they are leaving just weeks after another senior executive, Edward C. Forst, a head of asset management and member of Goldman's management committee, left the firm. Since October, more than 30 partners have left Goldman.
The firm itself is at something of a crossroads. Goldman made it through the financial crisis and returned to profitability faster than many banks. In 2009, it logged a record annual profit of $13.39 billion.
Since then, however, its earnings power has been eroded by a hesitant recovery in the United States, debt worries in Europe and new regulations that have eaten into profits.
In the third quarter of 2011, Goldman lost $428 million, only the second quarterly loss for Goldman since it went public in 1999. Over the last year or so it laid off employees and cut back bonuses and noncompensation expenses.
Goldman is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 18, and analysts have low expectations for the results. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial are predicting a profit of just $1.33 a share, compared with $3.79 a share in the quarter a year ago.
The recent wave of executive departures is also notable because it is coming toward the end, not the beginning, of the tenure of the firm's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein.
As chief executive and chairman since 2006, Mr. Blankfein has seen the firm through some of its best and darkest days. In 2007, the firm made $11.6 billion and Mr. Blankfein took home about $67 million for his efforts. It was a record payday for a Wall Street chief executive.
But by then the credit crisis was at his door and since then the company's fortunes, in both profit and public relations, have sagged.
In 2010, Goldman was accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of duping clients by selling mortgage securities that were secretly structured by a hedge fund firm to cash in on the housing market's collapse. The day the agency's lawsuit was filed, Mr. Blankfein has said, was "one of the worst days in my professional life." The firm paid $550 million to settle the accusations. It did not admit or deny wrongdoing.
In the years since the credit crisis, Goldman has become a symbol of excess and has been criticized by politicians and protesters alike. The spotlight has dragged down morale inside Goldman and has weighed on a number of the partners who have recently left, according to people who have spoken to them but are not authorized to speak on the record.
Goldman has about 450 partners. It can take years to make it into this inner circle, and all the firm's senior executives are partners, as are most of the bank's senior producers.
Being a partner at Goldman has long been considered the pinnacle of success on Wall Street, but in recent years, because of the difficult market environment, partner compensation has fallen and many partners are weary of all the negative press attention. Goldman's partners own 12.79 percent of the firm, according to Footnoted.com, a division of Morningstar that scrutinizes public filings.
Some partners wanted to leave Goldman during the financial crisis but felt uncomfortable doing so, resulting in a rush of willing retirements now.
Both Mr. Heller and Mr. Eisler are old hands at Goldman. Mr. Heller was a partner at the firm when it went public in 1999 and Mr. Eisler was made a partner in 2000. Both already have plans beyond Goldman, and are interested in another job in finance, be it investing their own money or starting a hedge fund, according to a person briefed on their plans but not authorized to speak on the record.
The securities division they ran will now have three heads. Pablo Salame and Harvey Schwartz, who were co-heads with the departing partners, will continue in their current jobs. Isabelle Ealet, based in London, will become the third head.
Ms. Ealet is often named as a woman in finance to watch. Gary Cohn, the firm's president, said in a memo to staff members on Wednesday that Ms. Ealet joined Goldman Sachs in 1991 as an oil trader and was named managing director in 1997 and partner in 2000. Mr. Cohn said she would continue to be based in London.
Here are the Goldman Sachs memos on the changes:
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Edward K. Eisler to Retire From Goldman Sachs
After 18 years of distinguished service, Edward K. Eisler, global co-head of the Securities Division, has decided to retire from the firm. We are pleased that Edward will become a senior director. Edward joined the firm in 1994 as an interest rate derivatives trader and was named managing director in 1999 and partner in 2000. Prior to his current role, Edward was head of the firm's Global Macro Trading businesses, which include Interest Rate Products, Foreign Exchange and Commodities. He was also co-head of Global Emerging Markets and co-head of European Equities and Fixed Income. Edward is a member of the Management Committee and Firmwide Risk Committee and serves as co-chair of both the Securities Division Executive Committee and the Firmwide Growth Markets Operating Committee. Edward has played a leading role in developing and implementing many important aspects of the firm's global strategy. He contributed to the success of some of our most important and innovative transactions. In addition to his commercial contributions, Edward has hired, developed and mentored many of the firm's senior leaders and has demonstrated an outstanding commitment to the people of Goldman Sachs.Please join us in thanking Edward for his service to the firm and wishing him every success in the future. We look forward to continuing to benefit from his advice and judgment. Lloyd C. Blankfein
Gary D. Cohn
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
David B. Heller to Retire From Goldman Sachs
After more than 22 years of outstanding service, David B. Heller, global co-head of the Securities Division, has decided to retire from the firm. We are pleased that David will become a senior director. David joined Goldman Sachs in 1989 as a trader in Equity Derivatives. In 1993, he transferred to Tokyo to become head of Volatility Trading. He later became co-head of Equities in Japan before transferring to London in 1999 as head of Global Trading for Equity Derivatives. David returned to New York in 2002 as co-head of Equity Derivatives. He assumed the role of global head of Equities Trading in 2006 and was named global co-head of the Securities Division in 2008.During his career, David has played leadership roles on many of the firm's most important committees and initiatives. He serves on the Management Committee, the Client and Business Standards Committee, Firmwide Risk Committee, Finance Committee, Firmwide Diversity Committee, Public Policy Committee and the Steering Committee on Regulatory Reform. David was also chair of the Americas Diversity Committee.David was deeply involved in the restructuring of our equities business in 2003 and 2004, which laid the groundwork for its sustained outperformance in recent years. In addition, David has strong relationships with many of our significant clients and has mentored several colleagues who have developed into important leaders for the firm. Outside of Goldman Sachs, David serves on the boards of Acumen Fund, The New Museum of Contemporary Art, Project Morry and Third Way, a public policy institute.Please join us in thanking David for his commitment to our business and our people, and we look forward to relying on his advice and counsel in his new role.
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Gary D. Cohn
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Isabelle Ealet Named Co-Head of the Securities Division
We are pleased to announce that Isabelle Ealet has been named co-head of the Securities Division. Isabelle, together with Pablo Salame and Harvey Schwartz, will continue to build our client franchise across our global fixed income, commodities, currencies and equities businesses.Isabelle most recently served as global head of Commodities and previously was co-chief operating officer of Commodities with responsibility for Europe and Asia. She will continue to be based in London. Isabelle joined Goldman Sachs in 1991 as an oil trader and was named managing director in 1997 and partner in 2000. Isabelle has been an effective voice on a number of important firmwide, regional and divisional committees. She is a member of the Management Committee, Client and Business Standards Committee, Securities Division Executive Committee and the Firmwide Risk Committee.Outside of the firm, Isabelle is a member of a number of prominent cultural and diplomatic institutions in London. She is a trustee of the Trust of the Friends of the French Institute in London and an advisor (Conseiller au Commerce Exterieur) for the French Embassy in the UK.Please join us in congratulating Isabelle and wishing her success in her new role.
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Gary D. Cohn
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Eric S. Lane, Stephen M. Scherr and Ashok Varadhan Named to Management Committee
We are pleased to announce that Eric S. Lane, Stephen M. Scherr and Ashok Varadhan have been named to the Management Committee. Eric was named co-head of the Investment Management Division in December 2011. Working with Tim O'Neill, Eric is leading our efforts to grow our combined asset management and private wealth platform. Eric is co-chair of the Firmwide Suitability Committee. He previously served as chief operating officer of IMD, a role that included oversight for the Private Wealth Management, Alternative Investments, Capital Markets and Goldman Sachs Asset Management businesses. Eric was named managing director in 2001 and partner in 2002.Stephen, who serves as global head of the Financing Group in the Investment Banking Division, was named head of Latin America in November 2011. He is a member of the Firmwide Capital Committee, the Investment Banking Division's Operating Committee and Client and Business Standards Committee, and the Securities Division Executive Committee. Stephen previously has served as the chief operating officer of the Telecom, Media and Technology Group, chief operating officer for IBD and head of the Americas Financing Group. Stephen was named managing director in 2001 and partner in 2002.Ashok is global head of Currencies and Emerging Markets and a member of the Securities Division Executive Committee. He also serves on the Partnership Committee and the Firmwide Risk Committee. Ashok has been a leader in many of the firm's macro trading businesses for several years. After heading USD Derivative Trading in 2000, Ashok ran North American Interest Rate Products. In 2007, he became global head of Currencies and, in 2008, he was named global head of Emerging Markets. Ashok was named managing director in 2000 and partner in 2002.Please join us in congratulating Eric, Stephen and Ashok.
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Gary D. Cohn

        
A Once-Tight Flock at Goldman, Now Scattered
        
One of Goldman Sachs's 10,000 Small Businesses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); LITIGATION (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) David B. Heller; Edward K. Eisler; Goldman Sachs; Isabelle Ealet; Appointments and Executive Changes; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



485 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Ron Paul's Victory Speech

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: The second-place winner in New Hampshire is not really a member of the Republican party, and neither are many of his supporters. 

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. - The numbers say Ron Paul came in second in the New Hampshire Republican primary on Tuesday, but the Republican party is just a convenience for Mr. Paul, through which he spreads his other-worldly message. He is not really a member of the party in its current form, and more importantly, neither are many of his supporters.
His raucous victory party here was jammed with young people radiating an energy absent for any other candidate in the race. Their deafening chants of "end these wars!" and "end the Fed!" can be heard nowhere else, and convey a fury that is not transferable to any other politician.
No one interviewed here would even consider voting for Mitt Romney or Barack Obama in November. "No way," said Brandon Fielding, 26, an unemployed accountant who drove up from Nashua, N.H. "They're both exactly the same. They won't change a thing."

The crowd shared Mr. Paul's contempt for most Republicans and Democrats as tinkerers, lacking in vision, unappreciative of individual liberty, unwilling to destroy government in order to save the country. Instead of voting for someone like that in the general, they swore they would stay home and simmer, waiting for a new champion. Perhaps one of his relatives.
For now they have the 76-year-old man they called "President Paul," and he did not disappoint them. After ascending the stage of a Best Western meeting room to the thump of "I Won't Back Down," by Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers, he gave a "victory" speech unlike that of any other politician.
"In studying monetary history from the beginning of our country and even throughout all of history, monetary policy on periodic occasions will become the dominant issue," he said, to roars. (Yes, he really said that at a political rally, not in a lecture hall.) 
"And we have emphasized that and it's become an important issue. Just think, this is the first presidential campaign that the subject has even come up, since the Federal Reserve was started!" The crowd erupted in more chants of "End the Fed!" and Mr. Paul egged them on.
In the actual Republican primary, the candidates were discussing whether Mitt Romney had made too much money depriving workers of jobs. But that's not the kind of issue that engages Mr. Paul, who lives in a more theoretical world. He has read so much obscure economics, and absorbed so many forgotten thinkers, that he is overflowing with ideas that must be squeezed into his brief moment in the spotlight. As he speaks, he shuffles quickly through the pamphlets of his mind, moving so quickly from monetary to fiscal to foreign policy that he sometimes drops words and seems to lose his place.
"People who really hold the wealth, it's mal-distribution because it shifts over due to the regulations that control the government," he said. Whatever that means, the crowd didn't seem to care, hanging on his every word. Some may actually imagine a shining path to the White House for Mr. Paul, but he seems to have something far more subversive in mind - an "intellectual revolution" to tear down decrepit political institutions.
"I sort of have to chuckle when they describe you and me as being dangerous," he said, in what may have been his most thrilling moment for the crowd. "That's one thing where they are telling the truth. Because we are dangerous - to the status quo!"
But for now, at least, he and his flock pose no danger to the leading candidate in his putative party. They do not dwell in his world.

        
The Faux Insurgent Versus the Faux Conservative
        
View of the World From New Hampshire and Iowa
        
Romney's Big Government Critique Runs Into a New Hampshire Roadblock
        
Ronald Reagan Versus Saul Alinsky
        
New Jersey Reconsiders Same-Sex Marriage; Santorum Worries About Polygamy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) New Hampshire; Ron Paul; Paul, Ron; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: RON PAUL (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Paul, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%); NASHUA, NH, USA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



486 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Choice Romney Lines, Packaged for Opponents

BYLINE: NICK CORASANITI


HIGHLIGHT: The Gingrich campaign imagines what line of attack the Obama campaign can use on Mitt Romney, and then uses it. 

 BODY:
Newt Gingrich's positive-message campaign seems but a distant memory.
The Gingrich campaign has released another negative ad, this time a web video attacking Mitt Romney.
The video features some of Mr. Romney's more headline-grabbing comments (what opponents might call "blunders" and "gaffes.") The highlights include Mr. Romney's $10,000 bet during a debate, his "corporations are people" statement in August, and his recent "I like to fire people" comment at a campaign stop in New Hampshire.
At the end, it says, "Imagine what Obama would do with a candidate like that," followed by "Only Newt Gingrich can win the debates against Obama," an echo of a common element of Mr. Gingrich's stump speech, where he promises to challenge President Obama to seven three-hour Lincoln-Douglas style debates.
The message of the ad is to portray Mr. Romney as unelectable in a general election, a possible response to New Hampshire exit polls that showed a majority of voters viewing Mr. Romney as the most electable of the Republican candidates.
The ad release comes on the same day that Mr. Gingrich continued his attack on Mr. Romney's wealth. At a campaign stop in South Carolina, Mr. Gingrich linked the kind of corporate takeover deals Mr. Romney specialized in to the 2008 financial crisis that brought misery to people on Main Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Ad Watch; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



487 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Brings Bain Criticism to South Carolina

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: New Gingrich draws a parallel between the actions of Bain Capital and those that caused the 2008 financial crisis. 

 BODY:
ROCK HILL, S.C. -- Broadening his controversial assault on the source of Mitt Romney's personal fortune, Newt Gingrich on Wednesday linked the kind of corporate takeover deals Mr. Romney specialized in to the 2008 financial crisis that brought misery to people on Main Street.
"We have a right to know what happened at Goldman Sachs, what happened with trillions of dollars in New York,'' Mr. Gingrich said on Wednesday morning. "We have a right to know what happened when companies go bankrupt,'' a reference to deals in which Mr. Romney's private equity firm, Bain Capital, cut workers and extracted profits from factories and retailers that later failed. 
Mr. Gingrich's attack on Mr. Romney's wealth, which a "super PAC" is prepared to echo in $3.4 million of ads in South Carolina before the Jan. 21 primary, have roiled many leaders and commentators in his own party. 
Mr. Gingrich was denounced by Rush Limbaugh, who said he "sounds like Elizabeth Warren,'' the Democratic senatorial candidate from Massachusetts. Mr. Romney, in his acceptance speech Tuesday night after his decisive victory in New Hampshire, implicitly linked Mr. Gingrich to President Obama as someone who "divides us with the bitter politics of envy.'' 
Mr. Gingrich's criticism, which he sees in the tradition of great Southern populists like Huey P. Long and even Andrew Jackson, carries great political risk. Although anger at government "bailouts'' of big banks and calls to audit the Federal Reserve are a staple of the Tea Party, when that anger is focused on individual financiers and their deals, as Mr. Gingrich is doing, Republican leaders have denounced the attacks as "class warfare" and a specialty of the left. 
But Mr. Gingrich presented himself here as a voice for middle-class Americans who want "someone prepared to stand up to Washington and New York.'' 
"This is not anticapitalism,'' he insisted. "That is the smokescreen of those who are afraid to be accountable.''
"I am for entrepreneurship,'' he added, "but I am also for the American people's right to understand how the games are being played: Are they fair to the American people, or are the deals being cut on behalf of Wall Street institutions and very rich people?'' 
A spokesman for Mr. Romney, Andrea Saul, responded, "Speaker Gingrich seems to think that running against the private sector is the way to revive his floundering campaign.''
Mr. Gingrich made his remarks to reporters after addressing some 300 supporters who repeatedly jumped to their feet to applaud his speech at the perhaps ironic locale of a country club here.
"It is good to be home in the South,'' Mr. Gingrich said, basking in the warm receptions after arriving on a red-eye charter flight from New Hampshire. 
In a very Gingrichian flourish, the kind easily parodied but which he seemed to mean sincerely, he said, "I believe the next 10 days are as important as any 10 days we've seen in modern American politics.''
This Southern state could very well be the last stand for the Gingrich campaign, where the candidate will try to derail the inevitability of Mr. Romney by uniting conservatives behind him, although he has several other rivals attempting the same feat. 
In a nod to the many evangelical and conservative Christians in the state, Mr. Gingrich denounced "anti-Christian" persecution from the Middle East to Texas, citing a judge's order there this year forbidding prayer at a high school graduation.
Mr. Gingrich is seeking to brand himself as an insurrectionist capable of shaking up the establishment of both parties, in New York and Boston no less than Washington.
"I believe that South Carolinians are either going to center in to pick one conservative, or by default we're going to send a moderate on to the nomination,'' he said, warning that would be a losing hand to play against Mr. Obama. 
"We've nominated moderates,'' he said, an apparent allusion to the winner of the 2008 South Carolina Republican primary, Senator John McCain. "They can't debate, they can't explain, they stand there trying to figure out, 'What is it I believe now?''' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RELIGION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%) Gingrich, Newt; Long, Huey Pierce; McCain, John; Romney, Mitt; Warren, Elizabeth; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Private Equity; Tea Party Movement; Bain Capital; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Middle East; New Hampshire; South Carolina; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; The Caucus

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (51%) Gingrich, Newt; Long, Huey Pierce; McCain, John; Romney, Mitt; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Middle East; New Hampshire; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



488 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1959 words

HEADLINE: Melinda Gates Answers Questions, Part II

BYLINE: THE EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: Melinda Gates, just back from a trip to Bangladesh, along with Nicholas Kristof, answer readers' questions about the developing world. 

 BODY:
Q.
COSIMA BARLETT: My comments do not in any way detract from the profound admiration I have for you and your Foundation but a simple question: why do you not concentrate more of your efforts on American children who are so lacking in so many important areas as statistics now show?
A.
MELINDA: When Bill and I started the foundation we decided to tackle the largest sources of inequity, both at home and abroad. Globally, the greatest disparity we saw was in health. Children in poor countries were dying of diseases like measles that were either preventable or that nobody was working to address. We felt like our resources could make a huge difference in the lives of poor families. 
In the United States, although there are certainly healthcare challenges, we've gotten to a point where we usually aren't talking about health in terms of child mortality. Instead, the greatest inequity we see America is in education. Roughly 25 percent of the foundation's resources are focused here and most of that goes towards improving our schools.
Education is supposed to be the great equalizer, but the system is failing most of our students, especially low-income and minority youth. Only one-third of students graduate high school with the skills they need to succeed in college. But getting some sort of degree after high school is critical for success in today's economy. What we have learned over the years is that the key to improving our education system is ensuring that there is effective teaching in every classroom in America.
A.
NICK: That's an interesting question, Cosima, and it's one I wonder about in relation to my own reporting: Do I spend so much time writing about crises abroad that I neglect problems festering at home?
I'm not sure, but there are two reasons why I understand a focus abroad. First, poverty in the world's poorest countries really is different than poverty in America. On my first win-a-trip journey, I brought a student with me who was skeptical of all my Africa reporting. Casey Parks had grown up in Georgia and Louisiana in a poor family, without insurance, and she didn't see that there was any need to go to Cameroon to write about global poverty. But then in Cameroon, Casey and I watched a woman named Prudence dying in childbirth, completely needlessly. And Casey told me that she realized that yes, there really is a difference - and that in the world's poorest countries a $10 investment in a bed net really can save a life, in a way that is not true in the U.S.
The second point I would make is to push back at the idea that we should solve our own problems first, before we try to solve Congo's or Bangladesh's. At some point we are all humans, connected by a web of humanity, and that's true whether we are New Yorkers and Californians - or whether we are Alabamans and Bangladeshis. It doesn't feel right to me to ignore people's needs and lives because they didn't win the lottery of birth and end up with American citizenship. What matters most is their humanity, not their passport.
That said, I sometimes worry that American university students think that it's cool and glamorous to spend a summer fighting poverty in Africa, but have much less interest in mentoring disadvantaged kids across the tracks in their own cities. That troubles me, too. And as a matter of fact, I hope to do more writing this year about America's own challenges - including education.
Q.
WASSIM RAGAB: How do you overcome the corruption in Bangladesh and still run successful projects?
A.
MELINDA: It's unfortunate and true that Bangladesh is perceived to be one of the world's most corrupt countries. The Bangladeshis I have met have told me that they feel this in small ways on a fairly regular basis. Because the problem is systemic, it's hard for them to go against the tide. One doctor I met with yesterday told me that nobody pays attention to traffic lights since you can buy your way out of a ticket for a small fee and because if you don't run the red light, "everyone else will and you'll never get to your destination." Obviously, these unnecessary surcharges on everyday life and other forms of corruption are a major impediment to faster economic growth and it's something the government and others must address. 
The global health community has gotten quite good at figuring out ways to ensure that dollars are going toward intended purposes. Organizations like the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations (GAVI Alliance), which is the world's largest funder of vaccines in poor countries, regularly assesses recipient countries' finances and conducts independent audits. Our foundation also insists upon tight financial controls in our own grantmaking. Donors do more than just provide funding. By exacting high standards and requiring audits and transparency, we can also help to change the norms about what is acceptable.
It's also important to recognize that Bangladesh, a democratic country that has held a number of free and fair elections, is uniquely fueled by a powerful civil society. Bangladeshi NGOs have massive reach: the largest one, BRAC, reaches 110 million people! Many of the foundation's projects are carried out in partnership with these NGOs. And the NGO's emphasis on community-led development-BRAC pioneered the community health worker model, for example-means that more people are empowered and don't wait around for the powers that be to solve their problems.
A.
NICK: Bangladesh has a problem with corruption, and its prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, has also gone on a vengeful warpath against Grameen Bank and its founder, Muhammad Yunus. It's really sad to see a woman become a prime minister and then use her power to attack a man like Yunus who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his wonderful work on behalf of the world's women. 
But corruption and abuse of power are a part of life in much of the world. Business executives learn to navigate around it, and so do aid workers. Sure, some gets siphoned off, but there are ways to ensure that the great majority is properly used. There are also some innovations that increase transparency and reduce corruption, such as publishing accounts so that everybody knows how much money is going to a particular rural school. And if that school never actually was built, because the money was stolen, then local people will know enough to protest. Likewise, national ID cards (as are being introduced in India) reduce corruption. So does direct deposit of sums into recipient savings accounts rather than allowing money to be funneled through middlemen. Corruption is still a problem, but we're getting better at dealing with it, I think.
Q.
SARAH KACEVICH: What is access to birth control like in Bangladesh? In that country's context, how do you feel about the idea that improved access to birth control can reduce poverty via smaller family sizes & "older" mothers?
A.
MELINDA: Bangladesh has made huge improvements in getting women access to contraceptives since its independence 40 years ago. The program has consistently maintained strong support from the highest levels of government and society, and has had great success tapping into the tremendous amount of latent demand for contraceptives. Nearly half of Bangladeshi women use modern contraceptives today, up from just five percent in 1975. The average number of births per woman has dropped correspondingly, from 6.3 to 2.3 over the same period. 
We often talk about all the benefits that stem from getting women access to family planning tools, but Bangladesh went to great lengths to prove this hypothesis. In 1977, they set up a study in a religiously conservative area called Matlab, where they selected villages as similar as possible and then introduced modern family planning services in some but not in others. They tracked these 149 villages and 180,000 people for about 20 years. The results were astounding : women in the villages with access to modern contraceptives had, on average, 1.5 fewer children. They had lower risk of pregnancy-related death and disability. They weighed more, were better educated, earned significantly more money, and lived in nicer houses. Not to mention their children, who also weighed more and went to school longer.
The next challenge for Bangladesh will be better meeting the needs of those families who indicate they do not want to have any more children. Currently, their options are mostly limited to short-acting contraceptives, like pills and condoms, which require more effort and persistence to use than longer-acting methods like implants and injectables.
At several points this week, I asked women how many children they had at home. I didn't hear many say that they had large families. In fact, the most I heard any woman say was that she had three children. Perhaps even more surprising, nearly all the women had waited three years in between children before having another. Bangladesh is unique when it comes to birth spacing-80 percent of non-first births happen at least twenty-four months after the preceding child is born. Bangladeshi women don't just have access to family planning, they have consistent access. All of this is opening up real opportunities for these women and their families. Every single woman I talked to mentioned that her husband had a job and a good percentage of those women had jobs too, mostly embroidering or tailoring. It reinforced to me that access to family planning can have a revolutionary impact not only on a woman's potential but also on that of her family. This kind of access could pull entire societies out of poverty.
A.
NICK: Contraception has been neglected for a generation. Partly that's because the population control effort was tarnished by overzealous and coercive campaigns in China and India, and partly because the whole field of reproductive health was made radioactive by the abortion debates. But access to family planning for women who want it is critical to moving forward in development. And it mystifies me that conservatives are often wary of it, because the best way to reduce abortions in the developing world is to promote family planning.
That said, I think Americans sometimes have a naive view about how easy it is. Family planning, like everything in development, is harder than it looks. I once interviewed a 30 year-old woman in Haiti who was intelligent, lived around the corner from a clinic that provided family planning, only wanted two children - and yet was pregnant with her 10th child. Family planning requires health care providers and counseling, it requires steady supplies (no point in having the Pill in stock only every other month), and it requires consensus in the community. From Mauritania to Congo Republic, I've visited clinics that would only give a woman contraceptives if her husband accompanied her to signify his agreement. 
There's also some evidence that the most effective form of family planning isn't IUD's or the Pill, but girls' education: when girls are educated, they end up having significantly fewer children. So we need an approach that includes educating girls, teaching communities (men included) about contraception, providing steady supplies in a comprehensive program that includes counseling, and research on new methods that don't require health workers. The Population Council, for example, is developing a vaginal ring that does not require a doctor and that seems highly reliable and cheap. Bangladesh is a good example of the progress that is possible when a family planning policy is done right.

        
Melinda Gates Answers Your Questions
        
Melinda Gates Answers Questions, Part III
        
Send in Questions for Melinda Gates
        
Three Proven Steps to Advance the World's Women, on International Women's Day
        
Does Religion Oppress Women?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); MEASLES (75%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (75%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%) Bangladesh; development; education; Melinda Gates; Melinda Gates Q & A; reproductive health; women; Educating Girls; foreign aid; health care; How to Help

PERSON: MELINDA GATES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CAMEROON (92%); BANGLADESH (90%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



489 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Grows, Jobs Are Still Scarce, Fed Says

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Economic expansion improved last month across most of the country while hiring was limited and housing remained stagnant, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday.
The economy ''expanded at a modest to moderate pace'' from late November through the end of December on increased holiday retail sales, demand for services and oil-and-gas extraction, the Fed said in its beige book business survey. At the same time, most industries saw ''limited permanent hiring,'' and the housing market remained ''sluggish.''
The report may reinforce the views of a majority of Fed officials, who see an economy that is expanding without being strong enough to reduce joblessness as quickly as they would prefer. The unemployment rate dropped to 8.5 percent in December from 9.4 percent a year earlier. Fed officials are urging lawmakers to try more housing-aid programs. 
''The reports on balance suggest ongoing improvement in economic conditions in recent months,'' the Fed said in the report, which comes out two weeks before each meeting on monetary policy. ''The combination of limited permanent hiring in most sectors and numerous active job seekers has continued to keep a lid on general wage increases.''
The beige book report reflects a ''slightly better tone, slightly better data,'' said Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. Even so, ''the financial market has taken recent Fed commentary as generally dovish and as a signal that the Fed is perhaps exploring more easing measures.''
The last beige book, released Nov. 30, said the economy expanded at a ''slow to moderate'' pace in 11 of 12 districts, led by gains in manufacturing and consumer spending. St. Louis was the only region to report a decline in economic activity.
The Federal Open Market Committee will meet Jan. 24-25 in Washington as officials debate whether to try new actions to lower borrowing costs. Fed policy makers will for the first time publish projections for the benchmark federal funds rate and will also update their forecasts for economic growth, unemployment and inflation.
The beige book said that ''upward wage pressures were modest over all'' for workers across the country. The Labor Department said Jan. 6 that 200,000 jobs were added to payrolls in December, the most since September. The jobless rate declined for a fourth consecutive month to the lowest since February 2009.
Even so, the New York Fed president, William C. Dudley, said last week that the ''outlook for unemployment is unacceptably high'' and that it was appropriate for the Fed to consider steps to ease monetary policy.
The residential real estate market ''largely held steady at very low levels'' except for increasing construction of multifamily homes, the beige book said. The rental market tightened in some areas, the report said.
The Fed said in the report that inflation and pressures to raise prices were limited at the end of last year. Several district banks reported that ''upward price pressures from rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,'' the Fed said.
Lending edged up on higher demand from businesses, with the New York and Cleveland regions reporting increased loans in commercial mortgages, the Fed said.
Consumer lending ''was largely flat compared with the prior reporting period,'' the central bank said.
A separate Fed report Jan. 9 showed that consumer borrowing in the United States rose in November by the most in 10 years. Credit increased by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since November 2001, to $2.48 trillion.
Most regions said that holiday retail sales ''were up noticeably over last year's season,'' and that consumer spending and confidence had improved, the Fed said.
Commercial and industrial loans from banks have increased to $1.34 trillion as of Dec. 28, the highest since October 2009, from $1.21 trillion a year earlier. They peaked at $1.62 trillion in October 2008.

GRAPHIC: MAPS
 CHART: Economic Growth Across the Country: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before Dec. 30. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



490 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: State Gets 20,000 Comments on Its Gas Drilling Rules by Deadline

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
After taking over 20,000 public comments, more than on any issue they have ever faced, New York environmental officials are getting ready for the final phase of work on their proposal to allow hydrofracking of natural gas in the state.
Wednesday was the deadline for people to make their opinions heard on a draft of the state's environmental impact statement and proposed regulations governing the hydraulic gas drilling process. The first task facing state environmental officials is to cull any new information from those comments after three years of debate and two rounds of hearings. 
They have not said when they expect to be done fine-tuning the environmental document and rules, beyond saying that the work will be completed this year.
Across the state, a sharp divide was evident this week on whether state officials need to do further study and perhaps hold another round of public review, with environmental groups arguing yes and the gas industry pressing for a quick resolution.
Gas industry representatives want changes in the state's proposed rules, criticizing them as overly restrictive and based on unrealistic worst-case situations. The Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York, which represents more than 400 individuals and businesses in the industry, argues that the restrictions need to be eased so as not to limit development of gas wells and the economic benefits it says will result.
Nonetheless, the association says it wants the state to speed its decision so that new drilling permits can be issued this year.
Major environmental groups that hired their own technical experts to review the state proposal argue that the state is far from done. Looming large, they say, is the lack of a detailed plan to dispose of the millions of gallons of wastewater per well that the new drilling will produce.
The drilling, known as horizontal hydraulic fracturing, involves injecting chemically treated water underground to break up shale formations and release natural gas.
Also missing, those groups say, is an assessment of potential health risks from fracking operations, and of the cumulative effects of multiple drilling sites on both humans and the environment.
''There are still real gaps,'' said Kate Sinding, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council.
These views, and many more -- including the argument that fracking should be banned -- run through the comments submitted to the State Department of Environmental Conservation. State officials said the level of public participation was unprecedented.
''It's a huge public exchange,'' said Val Washington, a former deputy commissioner at the department who oversaw the first draft of the state's environmental impact statement on hydrofracking. ''More and more people see it as a vote for or against, and not as a fact-finding process.''
Joseph Martens, the state environmental commissioner, issued a statement on Wednesday promising that ''if high-volume hydraulic fracturing moves forward in New York, it will move forward with the strictest standards in the nation to ensure New York's drinking water and other natural resources are thoroughly protected.''
But the Independent Oil and Gas Association argues that the state's proposed regulations take an alarmist view. For example, in considering the impact on air quality, it says, state regulators assumed that diesel trucks at drilling sites would idle constantly. But state law already prohibits idling for more than five consecutive minutes, it says.
Nonetheless, the industry is in a hurry to get started, as are many landowners who envision royalties on gas sales from the production on the properties.
''We have received notice of pending foreclosure and our property taxes increase with local budgets and remain unpaid,'' Susan Dorsey, whose family owns 33 acres in Chenango County, wrote in one public comment. ''Talk about sustainability! I would like to be able to sustain! I wish first and foremost to be allowed to harvest the wealth that I am sitting on, in order to preserve our household intact.''
New York City officials, who scored a big victory when the state decided to ban drilling in and near the watersheds upstate that supply drinking water to the city, said they were worried about one outstanding issue.
In their submitted comments, they asked for buffer zones of up to seven miles between drilling sites and underground aqueducts and tunnels -- mainly out of worry that seismic activity resulting from hydrofracking could damage the infrastructure that carries water to the city. The state is proposing a 1,000-foot buffer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



491 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Rest in Luxury

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
FRANK CARFARO is a 41-year-old bachelor of such varied and impressive accomplishments that merely hearing about them wears one out, and he enjoys a long soak in a hot bath now and then. But when he renovated his small Greenwich Village apartment, he ripped out the tub because it didn't evoke the right mood.
The mood he wanted, he explains, was that of a super-luxe hotel, a place that would work for him in the short term -- a stopover, until he starts a family. He replaced the tub with a steam shower of such intensity that someone once mistook the steam pouring out the windows for smoke and called the fire department. 
The bathroom walls are, of course, marble. The closet, between the living space and the bedroom, is open, allowing for fast access. Floors and ceilings have been insulated, so Mr. Carfaro's music will not annoy the neighbors. And the furniture, which has traces of midcentury modern, comes mostly from his SoHo furniture company, Desiron.
Call it Man-on-the-Move Moderne -- although, as Mr. Carfaro races motorcycles, skis on glaciers and is often up at 5:30 a.m. to train for an Iron Man competition, perhaps it should be the more masculine Man-on-the-Move Modern.
That Mr. Carfaro is a man on the move, no one could doubt. He has been featured in ads for American Express and Levi's.
His company, which he founded 14 years ago, grossed about $10 million in 2011, he says. He has a three-bedroom house on Block Island, R.I., and another, which he bought with a friend, in Vail, Colo.
When the talk turns to fishing, another of his happy pursuits, he opens the fridge and pulls out a salmon fillet, dating to the summer before last when he went to Iceland and brought back 40 pounds of salmon. (No worries, it's frozen.)
Mr. Carfaro's apartment, which seems to have all the accouterments a man on the move could want, is just 550 square feet. He designed it himself, in a gut renovation that cost about $150,000.
Was he on a budget? Mr. Carfaro, who has a range of charming grins, smiles a little smile. Not really, he says.
If that creates an impression of a man who grew up rich and entitled, it is incorrect. Mr. Carfaro grew up in Long Valley, N.J., where his father and grandfather did decorative ironwork and his mother was a delivery room nurse.
After the death of his parents' fourth child, they took in foster children -- 23, by Mr. Carfaro's count. The family finances were up and down. One year, Mr. Carfaro recalls, his father bought a half-dozen snowmobiles as Christmas presents; another year there was nothing.
But Mr. Carfaro, the oldest child, was ambitious even as a boy. The Overdo-It Kid, he calls himself. If someone asked him to paint the trim on a house, he'd do the rest of it as well. He learned ironwork from his family, but as a designer, he is largely self-taught.
The one year he studied design and architecture at the University of Grenoble, before getting his degree in French and economics at Rutgers College, he was more interested in skiing the Alps than learning to design.
Two years ago, Mr. Carfaro bought what was a one-bedroom apartment in a nondescript apartment house for $585,000. It was not in bad shape, but Mr. Carfaro wanted to create a place that was entirely his own. He removed walls, ceilings and floors, finding an extra 25 square feet of space.
The galley kitchen was replaced with an open kitchen. The wall between the bedroom and living room was replaced with a handsome storage unit that has an ethanol EcoSmart fireplace in the base. (Mr. Carfaro's firm is a distributor for EcoSmart.) The bedroom now has a platform bed he designed, with storage units covered in shagreen surrounding the leather headboard and glass shelves at the foot for shoes.
One of the home's most appealing features is a plaster-and-decoupage wall in the living room that incorporates images of things that hold meaning for Mr. Carfaro: a map from the Underground in London, where he lived for a time (it involved, like so many of Mr. Carfaro's adventures, a woman), old fishing lures and a flapper wearing a half-dozen bowler hats (she just looked like an interesting person, Mr. Carfaro says).
The wall, created by Jodi Cohan, a designer who does faux finishing, was inspired by the peeling wallpaper in the home of the speech therapist in ''The King's Speech.'' ''You could see the history of that building in that wall,'' Mr. Carfaro says.
And that long-horned steer skull hanging on the wall?
''I got it in a shop in Colorado,'' he says. ''I love that adventure stuff. I imagine how this cow lived and who drove him. It took me back to a time I would have liked to live in.''
What about the long paddle beside it? ''I do a lot of paddle boarding,'' Mr. Carfaro says. ''It's a relatively new sport: you stand up on what looks like a surfboard and you paddle. I just did a 24-mile race around Manhattan.''
How did he do? ''I did well,'' he says. ''I was 12th in my class.''
That doesn't sound very impressive.
''It was out of 100-something people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Frank Carfaro, the president of the SoHo furniture company Desiron, paid $585,000 for a 525- square-foot walk-up in Greenwich Village, and spent about $150,000 on a gut renovation to make it feel like a luxury hotel.
2. Tearing down walls increased the apartment's floor space by 25 square feet. Mr. Carfaro uses every inch. A shelving and storage unit with an ethanol fireplace in its base separates the living room from the bedroom.
3. The open kitchen has custom cabinetry made by Desiron. Inside, the cabinets are lined with antique mirroring to maximize the light.
4. A wall of peeling paint in the film ''The King's Speech'' inspired one wall in the living room. Mr. Carfaro bought the cattle skull in Colorado. ''I love that adventure stuff,'' he says. The paddle is for paddle boarding, his new favorite sport.
5. Since the bedroom is small, Mr. Carfaro designed a platform bed with shagreen-covered storage units around the leather headboard. Glass shelves at the foot of the bed hold shoes.
6. The marble-lined shower and the radiant heat Mr. Carfaro installed after gutting the original bathroom were among the most expensive elements in the renovation. He estimates the radiant heat cost $30,000 and the marble in the bathroom and kitchen $25,000.
 7. Most of the furnishings are from Desiron, including the Driscoll side chair, here in mohair. It sells for about $3,800. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR TONDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SKIING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (66%); SURFING (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); CHRISTMAS (60%); CHILDREN (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ICELAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



492 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Survey Finds Rising Strain Between Rich And the Poor

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
Conflict between rich and poor now eclipses racial strain and friction between immigrants and the native-born as the greatest source of tension in American society, according to a survey released Wednesday.
About two-thirds of Americans now believe there are ''strong conflicts'' between rich and poor in the United States, a survey by the Pew Research Center found, a sign that the message of income inequality brandished by the Occupy Wall Street movement and pressed by Democrats may be seeping into the national consciousness.
The share was the largest since 1992, and represented about a 50 percent increase from the 2009 survey, when immigration was seen as the greatest source of tension. In that survey, 47 percent of those polled said there were strong conflicts between classes. 
''Income inequality is no longer just for economists,'' said Richard Morin, a senior editor at Pew Social & Demographic Trends, which conducted the latest survey. ''It has moved off the business pages into the front page.''
The survey, which polled 2,048 adults from Dec. 6 to 19, found that perception of class conflict surged the most among white people, middle-income earners and independent voters. But it also increased substantially among Republicans, to 55 percent of those polled, up from 38 percent in 2009, even as the party leadership has railed against the concept of class divisions.
The change in perception is the result of a confluence of factors, Mr. Morin said, probably including the Occupy Wall Street movement, which put the issue of undeserved wealth and fairness in American society at the top of the news throughout most of the fall.
Traditionally, class has been less a part of the American political debate than it has been in Europe. Still, the concept has long existed for ordinary Americans.
''Americans have always acknowledged that there are Rockefellers and the lunch-bucket guy,'' said Tom W. Smith, director of the General Social Survey at the National Opinion Research Center, based at the University of Chicago. ''But they believe it is not a permanent caste, but a transitory condition. The real game-changer would be if they give up on that.''
Going by the survey's results, they have not. Forty-three percent of those surveyed said the rich became wealthy ''mainly because of their own hard work, ambition or education,'' a number unchanged since 2008.
The survey's main question -- ''In America, how much conflict is there between poor people and rich people?'' -- was based on language used by Mr. Smith's center at the University of Chicago, Mr. Morin said.
Mr. Smith said the question was often understood to mean, ''Do the rich and the poor get along?'' and ''Do they have the same objectives?''
The issue has also become a prominent part of the political debate. President Obama has pressed the case that income inequality is rising as election season has gotten under way.
It has even crept into the Republican presidential primary race. At a debate in New Hampshire last Saturday, Rick Santorum criticized Mitt Romney for using the phrase ''middle class,'' dismissing the words as Democratic weapons to divide society. And conservatives have been wringing their hands over Newt Gingrich's recent attacks on Mr. Romney's past in private equity, saying they are a misguided assault on free-market capitalism.
Independents, whose votes will be fought over by both parties, showed the single largest increase in perceptions of conflicts between rich and poor, up 23 percentage points, to 68 percent, compared with an 18-point rise among Democrats and a 17-point rise for Republicans. Sixty-eight percent of independents believe there are strong class conflicts, just below the 73 percent of Democrats who do. (The survey's margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for results based on the total sample.)
''The story for me was the consistency of the change,'' Mr. Morin said. ''Everyone sees more conflict.''
The demographics were surprising, experts said. While blacks were still more likely than whites to see serious conflicts between rich and poor, the share of whites who held that view increased by 22 percentage points, more than triple the increase among blacks. The share of blacks and Hispanics who held the view grew by single digits.
What is more, people at the upper middle of the income ladder were most likely to see conflict. Seventy-one percent of those who earned from $40,000 to $75,000 said there were strong conflicts between rich and poor, up from 47 percent in 2009. The lowest income bracket, less than $20,000, changed the least.
The grinding economic downturn may be contributing to the heightened perception of conflict between rich and poor, said Christopher Jencks, a professor of social policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
''Rich and poor aren't terribly distinct from secure and unemployed,'' he said.
The survey attributed the change, in part, to ''underlying shifts in the distribution of wealth in American society,'' citing a finding by the Census Bureau that the share of wealth held by the top 10 percent of the population increased to 56 percent in 2009, from 49 percent in 2005.
''There are facts behind it,'' Mr. Smith said of the findings. ''It's not just rhetoric.''
Robert Rector, a fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, took issue with that, arguing that government data routinely undercounted aid to the poor and taxes taken from everyone else.
To him, the findings did not mean much, ''other than that the topic has been in the press for the last two years.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Tensions Between the Rich and Poor: More Americans say that the gap between the rich and poor is a greater source of tension than differences between other groups, according to a recent poll by the Pew Research Center. African-Americans, younger adults and Democrats were most likely to say there are ''strong conflicts'' between the rich and poor. (Source: Pew Research Center) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); TRENDS (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); POLITICS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



493 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: German Economy Shows Signs of a Slowdown

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The German economy expanded faster than any other Group of 7 nation last year, official data showed Wednesday, but the stress of the euro crisis and a slowing global economy appear to be already weighing on output.
Germany expanded by 3 percent last year from 2010, the Federal Statistical Office said in Wiesbaden. It noted, however, that the growth came mostly in the first half of 2011, and estimated that the economy actually contracted by about 0.25 percent in the fourth quarter from the prior three months.
Some economists now predict another contraction for Germany in the first three months of 2012, which would meet the usual definition of a recession as two consecutive quarterly declines in output. 
Still, the 2011 figure was above the next-fastest growing G-7 economy, Canada, at ''a little over 2 percent,'' and the United States, with 2011 growth of ''1.7 percent or a little more,'' according to Ralph Solveen, an economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
And investors fleeing the euro crisis continue to seek refuge in German assets, which are considered the safest in the euro zone. On Wednesday, the German Finance Agency said it had allotted 3.2 billion, or $4.1 billion, of five-year bonds priced to yield 0.9 percent -- the first time it has ever sold securities of that maturity for less than 1 percent.
The agency received orders for nearly 9 billion worth of bonds, for a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.8.
The strong demand came despite the signs of an economic slowdown.
Christian Schulz, an economist with Berenburg Bank in London, noted in a research note that 2012 will be ''very different'' for the German economy as the sovereign debt crisis drags on.
''For the rest of the year, uncertainty is unusually high,'' he added. ''If the euro crisis does not get worse or is finally brought under control after another wave in early 2012, the German economy can rebound nicely from the summer onwards.''
The most likely scenario is that the economy will limp along with 0.4 percent annual growth in 2012, he said. But in the event of a full-blow euro crisis, ''Germany would enter a major recession.''
Mr. Solveen said German exporters faced weaker demand as the world economy cools and austerity measures in Europe to address the euro crisis led to reduced orders from neighboring countries. Fears of a euro break-up will weigh on German confidence, he added.
The statistics agency noted that ''the catching-up process of the German economy continued during the second year after the economic crisis,'' with G.D.P. finally exceeding its pre-crisis level. The German economy contracted by 5.1 percent in 2009, its worst showing in the post-World War II era. It grew 3.7 percent in 2010.
Household spending grew last year by 1.5 percent over 2010, while investment rose sharply, with spending on machinery and equipment adding 8.3 percent and construction adding 5.4 percent.
Exports rose by 8.2 percent over 2010, while imports rose by 7.2 percent.
Employment rose in 2011 to an all-time record, with an average of 41.1 million people at work -- up 541,000 from a year earlier. The country's jobless rate fell to 6.8 percent in December from 6.9 percent in November, the Federal Labor Office said earlier this month.
Mr. Solveen noted that Germany's fiscal position showed a surprisingly big improvement, with the deficit at 1 percent of G.D.P. That, the agency said, was ''far below the 3 percent reference value set by the Maastricht Treaty.''
The continuing strength in Germany contrasts with Europe's so-called ''peripheral'' members, which are desperately cutting government spending and raising taxes in an effort to bring down deficits and debt levels. Economic weakness and higher interest rates are complicating their task.
In Spain, for example, where the unemployment rate is over 20 percent, the National Statistics Institute said Wednesday that industrial production plunged 7 percent in November from a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bathroom fixtures at a factory in Germany. The euro crisis appears to be weighing on the nation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); EXPORT TRADE (60%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (55%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (55%); CBK (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



494 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Markets Remain Near a 5-Month High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stock indexes held firm near recent five-month highs on Wednesday as investors awaited crucial bond market tests for Europe in the next two days that could determine the direction of the euro zone crisis. 
Equities in the United States have been performing better in the face of turmoil from Europe's sovereign debt problems. This is a major change from four months ago and comes as investors have taken improving economic data in the United States to heart and an optimistic view about corporate earnings.
Wall Street recovered from early losses on Wednesday brought on by a warning from Fitch Ratings of severe repercussions, including a possible collapse of the euro, without more support from the European Central Bank.
The Fitch news sent the euro to its lowest level in 16 months against the dollar, which would normally have spelled steeper losses for stocks.
''The U.S. is being looked at clearly as the safe-haven trade, not only on the fixed-income side but now even from equity investors,'' said Ken Polcari, managing director at ICAP Equities in New York.
''We keep talking about the same stuff, but it's been that way for eight, nine months,'' Mr. Polcari said. ''I hate to say it, but it's almost like people are immune to it now.''
The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index recovered to close with little change to continue the recent decoupling of American stocks and the movement of the embattled euro.
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 13.02 points, or 0.10 percent, to 12,449.45. The S.& P. 500 gained 0.40 point, or 0.03 percent, to 1,292.48. The Nasdaq composite index gained 8.26 points, or 0.31 percent, to 2,710.76.
Materials shares moved higher, helped by a rise in United States Steel. The stock rose 4.7 percent, to $28.56, after Credit Suisse upgraded another metals company, AK Steel. The S.& P. materials sector gained 1 percent.
Chevron slipped 2.3 percent, to $105.35 in extended trading after the oil company gave its fourth-quarter outlook.
Shares of Supervalu, the supermarket chain, dropped 12.5 percent, to $7.34 after quarterly sales missed estimates.
The clothing retailer Urban Outfitters, which is grappling with inventory and declining margins, said its chief executive had resigned unexpectedly, sending the company's shares tumbling 18.6 percent, to $23.93.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 16/32, to 100 27/32. The yield fell to 1.91 percent, from 1.96 percent late Tuesday.
Bond auctions this week from Italy and Spain, two countries at the center of the euro zone crisis, could hurt sentiment if they go poorly. The stark reminder of Europe's debt troubles drove down oil prices, while investors piled into safer assets, including gold and bonds. The euro was down in overseas trading and was at $1.2707 in New York.
''There is a lot of event risk, and that has investors wary of holding euros, keeping it biased lower,'' said Omer Esiner, chief market analyst at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange in Washington.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
 10-Year Treasury Notes: High yield in monthly refunding auction. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT NOTES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); AUCTIONS (67%); RETAILERS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (52%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); AKS (NYSE) (52%); URBN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (52%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



495 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: The Next Immigration Challenge

BYLINE: By DOWELL MYERS. 
Dowell Myers, a professor in the Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California, is the author of ''Immigrants and Boomers.''

 BODY:
Los Angeles
THE immigration crisis that has roiled American politics for decades has faded into history. Illegal immigration is shrinking to a trickle, if that, and will likely never return to the peak levels of 2000. Just as important, immigrants who arrived in the 1990s and settled here are assimilating in remarkable and unexpected ways.
Taken together, these developments, and the demographic future they foreshadow, require bold changes in our approach to both legal and illegal immigration. Put simply, we must shift from an immigration policy, with its emphasis on keeping newcomers out, to an immigrant policy, with an emphasis on encouraging migrants and their children to integrate into our social fabric. ''Show me your papers'' should be replaced with ''Welcome to English class.'' 
Restrictionists, including those driving much of the debate on the Republican primary trail, still talk as if nothing has changed. But the numbers are stark: the total number of immigrants, legal and illegal, arriving in the 2000s grew at half the rate of the 1990s, according to the Census Bureau.
The most startling evidence of the falloff is the effective disappearance of illegal border crossers from Mexico, with some experts estimating the net number of new Mexicans settling in the United States at zero. The size of the illegal-immigrant population peaked in 2007, with about 58 percent of it of Mexican origin, according to the Pew Hispanic Center; since 2008, that population has shrunk by roughly 200,000 a year. Illegal immigrants from Asia and other parts of the globe have similarly dwindled in numbers.
This new equilibrium is here to stay, in large part because Mexico's birthrate is plunging. In 1970 a Mexican woman, on average, gave birth to 6.8 babies, and when they entered their 20s, millions journeyed north for work. Today the country's birthrate -- at 2.1 -- is approaching that of the United States. That portends a shrinking pool of young adults to meet Mexico's future labor needs, and less competition for jobs at home.
If the number of immigrants is declining, what about that other nativist bugbear, assimilation? There's little doubt that immigrants' potential as economic contributors turns on their ability to assimilate. Fortunately, recent studies by John Pitkin, Julie Park and me show that immigrant parents and children, especially Latinos, are making extraordinary strides in assimilating.
Today, barely a third of adult immigrants have a high-school diploma. But the children of Latino immigrants have always outperformed their parents in educational achievement. By 2030 we expect 80 percent of their children who arrived in the 1990s before age 10 to have completed high school and 18 percent to have a bachelor's degree.
But it is immigrants' success in becoming homeowners -- often overlooked in immigration debates -- that is the truest mark of their desire to adopt America as home. Consider Latinos. Among those in the wave of 1990s immigrants, just 20 percent owned a home in 2000. We expect that percentage to rise to 69 percent -- and 74 percent for all immigrants -- by 2030, well above the historical average for all Americans.
Who will be selling these homes to these immigrants? The 78 million native-born baby boomers looking to downsize as their children grow up and leave home. Fortunately for them, both immigrants and their children will be there to buy their homes, putting money into baby-boomer pockets and helping to shore up future housing prices.
Indeed, with millions of people retiring every year, America's immigrants and their children are crucial to future economic growth: economists forecast labor-force growth to drop below 1 percent later this decade because of retiring baby boomers.
Immigrants' extraordinary progress in assimilating would be faster if federal and state policies encouraged it. Unfortunately, they don't. This year, the Department of Homeland Security plans to spend a measly $18 million -- far less than a tenth of 1 percent of its budget -- on helping immigrants assimilate. Meanwhile, states with large immigrant populations are cutting the budgets of community and state colleges, precisely where immigrant students predominantly enroll.
How do we change course and begin treating immigrants as a vast, untapped human resource? The answer goes to the heart of shifting from an immigration policy to an immigrant policy.
For starters, the billions of dollars spent on border enforcement should be gradually redirected to replenishing and boosting the education budget, particularly the Pell grant program for low-income students. Some money could be channeled to nonprofits like ImmigrationWorks and Welcoming America, which are at the forefront of helping migrants assimilate.
Second, the Departments of Labor, Commerce and Education need to play a greater role in immigration policy. Yes, as long as there remains a terrorist threat from abroad, the Department of Homeland Security should have an immigration component. But immigration policy is all about cultivating needed workers. That means helping immigrants and their children graduate from high school and college. It means that no migrant should have to stand in line for an English class. It means assistance in developing migrants' job skills to better compete in an increasingly information- and knowledge-based economy.
Thanks to our huge foreign-born population (12 percent of the total), America can remain the world's richest and most powerful nation for decades. Shaping an immigrant policy that focuses on developing the talents of our migrants and their children is the surest way to realize this goal.
Correction: January 20, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this Op-Ed described the wave of retirement in the United States incorrectly. Millions of Americans are retiring each year, not every week.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CENSUS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012



496 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Economic Troubles Cited As the Top Risks in 2012

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
Severe income disparity and chronic fiscal imbalances are the top two risks facing business leaders and policy makers this year and over the next decade, the World Economic Forum said in a report Wednesday.
If these problems are not addressed, a result could be a ''dystopian future for much of humanity,'' according to the report, which was published in preparation for the group's annual meeting of business leaders, policy makers and academics in Davos, Switzerland, Jan. 25 to 29.
Signs of discontent with growing income gaps and economic problems stemming from the global debt crisis were already on the rise in 2011, as evidenced by the Occupy movement that began on Wall Street and quickly spread to other cities in the United States and around the world. Yet that might be only the beginning.
John Drzik, chief executive of the management consulting firm Oliver Wyman, said that deeper problems could be brewing in much of the developed world, where overextended governments face political, economic and demographic pressures to reduce social protections, pensions and other commitments. 
''When it becomes clear that promises can't be met, you could have social unrest increasing widely,'' said Mr. Drzik, who contributed to the report. ''People aren't happy when they think they have something and they're told that it's not there anymore.''
Other risks highlighted by the forum include the potential problems stemming from greenhouse gas emissions, computer attacks and water supply disruptions.
The emphasis on economic and social risks is a big shift from the focus of a year ago, when the group's annual report on potential disruptions highlighted natural disasters, a threat that materialized when a devastating earthquake struck Japan last March.
The earthquake quickly became a human, environmental and economic disaster, spawning a tsunami that killed thousands of people in Japan and setting in motion events that resulted in a meltdown in several reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
The economic ripple effects from the tremor spread throughout the world when manufacturing plants in Japan were shut down, causing widespread supply disruptions. It became a political event when, in the aftermath of the nuclear accident, Germany announced that it planned to shut down its nuclear plants within a decade.
''It was the world's first trillion-dollar disaster,'' said Erwann O. Michel-Kerjan, managing director of the Risk Management and Decision Processes Center at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, who contributed to the forum's report. ''It's one of the flip sides of globalization. A local event can become a global event much more quickly.''
As a result, a number of risk analysts -- not just those at the forum -- are looking less at the specific nature of individual disasters and more at potential connections between them. These have become increasingly evident in a variety of shocks in the last decade or so, including the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the global financial crisis that began in 2007 and the eruption of a volcano in Iceland in 2010, which produced a huge ash cloud that disrupted air travel across Europe for about a week.
''It seems like we are facing a lot more disasters,'' said Bernice Lee, research director for energy, environment and resource governance at the British research organization Chatham House. ''But it may just be that we are feeling their impacts more because they are more globalized.''
In a separate report for Chatham House, Ms. Lee argues that the world has grown more vulnerable to such events in recent years because of various factors, including the rise of the Internet and the popularity of the so-called just-in-time model of supply-chain management in business.
Under this system, many companies stock only enough parts to keep assembly lines running for a few days. In normal times, this cuts costs and makes manufacturers more flexible. When disaster strikes, however, businesses may be more vulnerable than in the days when warehouses stocked months of supplies.
The Internet, meanwhile, can magnify and spread the effects of a disaster in other ways. Rumors, even if incorrect, spread quickly on social networking sites -- sometimes more rapidly than emergency services can communicate accurate information. As word of disasters like the terror attacks of Sept. 11 or the earthquake in Japan spreads globally, consumers hunker down in front of their computer screens or televisions, rather than going about their daily lives. This increases the economic effects of a crisis, even in areas far removed from the source.
Howard Kunreuther, professor of decision sciences and business and public policy at Wharton, said that after the earthquake in Japan, researchers noticed an increase in sales of earthquake insurance, even in places at little or no risk of earthquakes.
''Before an event, nobody thinks something will happen to them,'' he said. ''After an event, people sometimes act equally irrationally.''
While scientists can predict the probability -- if not the exact timing or scale -- of certain natural disasters, the ability to read a crystal ball may be more helpful than complex calculations in determining risks stemming from human events.
Leading many forecasters' worries is an escalation of tensions between the United States and Iran. In addition to political turmoil, military action between the United States -- or Israel -- and Iran could cause a sharp increase in oil prices, especially if the Strait of Hormuz were blocked.
Ed Yardeni, an independent economist in New York, lists this as one of his ''four horsemen of the apocalypse'' for 2012. The others, cited in a note to clients, are: a severe global credit squeeze stemming from the crisis in the euro zone; social upheaval in China and India; and a severe global recession emanating from Europe.
Graham Hutchings, director of analysis at Oxford Analytica, adds to these the uncertainty caused by elections in a number of countries, including France, Russia and the United States, as well as a leadership transition in China.
Leadership changes can also come as a surprise, as they did to several heads of state in the Arab world last year, with a speed and suddenness that startled the experts. How the Arab Spring evolves, and how far the protests spread in the Arab world and beyond -- as old assumptions about geopolitical alignments are being cast aside -- are among the big uncertainties of 2012.
''This is an uncharted world, one that we're not familiar with, one that is not populated by two or three big powers and the other countries aligning themselves with one or another of those,'' Mr. Hutchings said. ''It is one that is marked by a dissolving of certainties, one that is more dependent on culture and context.''
And, in what might turn out to be the most accurate prediction of 2012, he added, ''Attempts to predict the affairs of humankind are marked by a kind of arrogance and are bound to fail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Occupy Wall Street protest in New York last year reflected anger over the growing income gap and the global debt crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); POWER PLANTS (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (86%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EMISSIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TSUNAMIS (68%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (68%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (67%); POLITICS (67%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (77%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



497 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: A Credit Nightmare, but Coming Out Better in the End

BYLINE: By REBECCA WHITE

 BODY:
Sitting on her living room sofa, her knees together, her hands clasped tidily on her lap, Maria Ortiz was the picture of professionalism. Wearing a black suit, her hair pulled back, she was smiling confidently. It was the end of another long day, one that started at 6 in the morning, before the rest of her family had even hit the snooze button.
But Ms. Ortiz, 48, a single mother of two and the sole caretaker of her elderly mother, does not mind waking early to get her son ready for school or preparing dinner for her family every night. And she does not mind the hourlong commute from Astoria, Queens, to her job in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. After spending nearly three years untangling a knot of financial bad luck, she is grateful for normal routines.
In August 2008, Ms. Ortiz was laid off from her job as a manager at a laundromat in Astoria. 
''I started folding,'' she said in a quiet, humble voice that barely hinted at the hardships she has experienced. ''Then they trained me on the computer, and then I became a manager.''
Ms. Ortiz had earned almost $500 a week as a manager on a full-time schedule. When she lost her job, her income was cut in half: she had to support her son, Luis Pellot, then 13, her daughter, Princess Pellot, then 16, and her mother, who has Alzheimer's disease, on $252 in weekly unemployment benefits. She says she gets no financial support from her children's father. Her monthly rent was $611, and with utilities, food and credit card bills, she feared that her family would not make ends meet.
In February 2010, after nearly two years of looking for work, Ms. Ortiz was desperate. She had never been unemployed for that long. She sought assistance from the East River Development Alliance's work-force development program. A caseworker helped Ms. Ortiz with her resume and career-planning strategies.
''They started sending me out on interviews,'' Ms. Ortiz said. ''Some of them, I thought I had experience in what they were asking for, but they would call me and tell me no.''
Ms. Ortiz was baffled by the repeated rejections until her caseworker checked her credit report. Everything made sense then: it showed that damaging, faulty information had been added to her report.
''It said I owe over $75,000 and that I have two cars,'' Ms. Ortiz squealed. ''I don't drive! It said I have a mortgage. I don't have a house!''
Quickly realizing that she needed to correct the false information, Ms. Ortiz and her caseworker sent letters to more than 20 companies and the credit bureaus to set straight which debts were veritably hers.
''I did have a lot of credit cards, but I always paid them on time,'' she said. ''I only had $500 of credit card debt, maybe less, and they weren't outstanding.''
Her credit reputation has since been restored, and she has achieved a nearly perfect TransUnion score, 798, but the blemish on her record took several months to reverse and was not without consequences.
In the summer of 2010, Ms. Ortiz went to a second interview for a position as a bank teller on Long Island.
''I thought I was going to get the job, but they ran my report and told me no,'' she said. Despite the letters Ms. Ortiz had sent out, her report still reflected incorrect information.
With money and time running out -- her unemployment benefits were to end in September -- Ms. Ortiz took a different course. She went on public assistance and began receiving $500 a month in food stamps and an additional $110 biweekly, but this was not enough to buoy her family of four.
On the advice of her career counselor at the East River Development Alliance, Ms. Ortiz applied to the Grace Institute, which helps women prepare for the job market, to enhance her professional skills.
''A lot of jobs were asking for computer skills I didn't have,'' she said.
Ms. Ortiz was accepted into the institute in July 2010, but did not have the money to pay for books and materials. She approached the development alliance and was referred to a partner organization, the Community Service Society of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She received $225 for materials and books and began classes that September.
A newly confident Ms. Ortiz graduated from the Grace Institute in spring 2011 and re-entered the world of resumes and interviews to great success. In August 2011, she was hired as an intake coordinator at the Paul J. Cooper Center for Human Services in Brooklyn, which provides residential services and treatment for chemical dependency and mental health issues, earning $10 an hour. She is currently up for a raise, she said.
As circuitous as it was, the rocky road she traveled may have been worthwhile, Ms. Ortiz admitted.
''My new job's a lot better,'' she said, her eyes gleaming with pride. ''In the laundry, I had to be standing the whole time, sometimes 10 hours a day.
''Now, I have my own office.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com/ neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13- 6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Ortiz, with her daughter, Princess, was puzzled by job rejections until her credit report revealed faulty information. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $5,544,083 Recorded Monday 433,960 Total $5,978,043 Last year to date $5,563,717 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); DISMISSALS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



498 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: New Study Ranks Countries on Security of Materials That Fuel Nuclear Arms

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The 32 nations with materials that can fuel atom bombs are typically mum on security, which looks to the public like a closed world of barbed wire and armed guards. Behind the scenes, atomic insiders have long told horror stories of risky practices and security flaws that might let the crucial ingredients for nuclear weapons fall into the wrong hands.
Now, for the first time publicly, experts have surveyed the precautions each country has in place and ranked the nations from best to worst. The study is full of surprises and potential embarrassments: for instance, Australia takes first place in nuclear security and Japan comes in at No. 23, behind nations like Kazakhstan and South Africa. 
The United States? It ties for 13th place with Belgium. Last place goes to North Korea, a police state that the report finds to be seriously deficient on issues of atomic security, and next-to-last to Pakistan.
The edgy ranking is a joint endeavor of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a private advocacy group in Washington, and the Economist Intelligence Unit, a company in London that does risk analyses. Their goals are to stir debate on how to promote security and to encourage governments to strengthen protections against atomic terrorism.
''We'll never get this job done if we continue to operate behind closed doors,'' Deepti Choubey, senior director for nuclear security at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, said Tuesday in an interview. The analysis was unveiled Wednesday morning and posted online at www.ntiindex.org.
In interviews, the nuclear analysts said they worked from public information that was often poorly known -- for instance, general procedures for training guards and protecting sensitive sites.
''There was no spying,'' said Leo Abruzzese, director of global forecasting at the Economist Intelligence Unit. ''It was pieced together'' from a wealth of obscure data.
Sam Nunn, the former Democratic senator from Georgia and a founder of the threat initiative, said the study ''is not about congratulating some and chastising others.'' Rather, Mr. Nunn said, its analyses and recommendations are meant to offer ''a resource for improvement.''
Those financing the threat initiative and the study include the MacArthur Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation of New York.
The global assessment is an outgrowth of President Obama's effort to get nations to take more responsibility in locking up bomb materials that are vulnerable to theft and covert sale. In 2010, he held a security summit meeting in Washington that drew attention to the danger. Experts warned that terrorists could buy or steal the makings for nuclear arms from the world's secretive maze of atomic storage and production sites, which are said to number in the thousands. A second summit meeting is scheduled for March in Seoul, South Korea.
The new analysis centers on security precautions for the two main fuels of nuclear arms -- plutonium and highly enriched uranium. It did not try to assess protections for highly radioactive materials that a terrorist might try to scatter with conventional explosives in a so-called dirty bomb.
For each country, the study looked at 18 factors, including known quantities of nuclear materials, physical protections, accounting methods and transportation security as well as larger societal factors like political stability and corruption.
Australia came out on top, the report says, because it has reduced its holdings of weapon-usable materials to ''a small amount'' and did well on the overall indicators. It received 94 out of 100 possible points.
Among the nine countries known to possess nuclear arms, Britain came out on top with a score of 79. The report credits its high status to concrete security measures as well as ''its commitment to and follow-through on international obligations.''
The United States scored 78 -- a fairly good ranking, the evaluators said, considering its possession of a sprawling nuclear complex that dates from the earliest days of the atomic era.
Japan received a score of 68 because of its vast stores of plutonium, relatively poor measures with security personnel and lack of an independent regulatory agency.
A surprise nation on the list is Iran. It claims no ambitions for making bomb fuel even while global leaders worry that its growing atomic program seeks just that capability. The study team said that Iran was included in the analysis because of its possession of highly enriched uranium for a research reactor in Tehran.
Iran received an overall score of 46, its standing undercut by what the report judged to be corruption, political instability and poor procedures for nuclear control and accounting. Of 32 nations, it ranked 30th.
Pakistan, with a security score of 41 and a nuclear complex that is undergoing rapid growth, was faulted for poor transportation security, political instability and the presence of terrorist groups eager to get their hands on the nuclear materials.
North Korea came in last with a score of 37. The report cited 10 indicators that came in below the global average, including site and transportation security as well as political stability.
The report said nearly a quarter of the nations with materials that can fuel atom bombs scored poorly on social factors because of ''very high levels of corruption.'' And it warned that several of those ''also scored poorly on the prospect of political instability over the next two years.''
That bleak combination, the study concluded, ''significantly increases the risk that nuclear materials might be stolen, with help from corrupt insiders or in the midst of government distraction or political chaos.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Nuclear Fuel Protections: A new report ranks the 32 countries that have nuclear materials suitable for a weapon, from strongest to weakest security precautions. (Source: Nuclear Threat Initiative) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); RANKINGS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ESPIONAGE (87%); INTERVIEWS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (76%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



499 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Charter School Finds That 'C' Means Closing

BYLINE: By ANNA M. PHILLIPS

 BODY:
For the first time, New York City is closing a charter school for the offense of simply being mediocre.
The announcement this week that the city planned to shut Peninsula Preparatory Charter School, a seven-year-old elementary school in Far Rockaway, Queens, was unusual by any definition. Since 2004, the city has closed only a few of its 142 charters that have opened -- schools that are publicly financed but privately managed, and are a source of competition for traditional schools.
But as more of the city's charter schools have matured, reaching the five-year renewal mark, the Education Department has become increasingly impatient with weak-performing ones. With the closing of Peninsula Prep, which had received a grade of C on each of its last four progress reports, Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott seemed to be signaling that the city's 136 charters will now be held to a higher standard.
And increasing scrutiny of New York charter schools could have widespread implications, prompting a wider conversation across the country about what the bar for closing should be, and how much charter schools should be expected to outperform public schools. 
Under Joel I. Klein, the former schools chancellor, the perception had grown among charter school leaders and those on the outside that as long as their test scores were middling at worst and their schools were functional, the city would not interfere.
''I think that there was a large number of people, including the chancellor, who were just very predisposed to be charter supporters, so it was hard for them to take off that hat,'' said Michael Duffy, a former director of the city's charter school office, who remembered having to lobby his superiors in 2010 to close a charter school in East New York, Brooklyn, that was forcing out special education students.
Marc Sternberg, a deputy chancellor who oversees the charter school office, said the city had not changed its approach to monitoring charter schools.
''Our focus has always been on opening new, excellent district and charter schools that provide students with a high-quality education,'' he said in a statement. ''In 2009, Peninsula Prep received a short-term renewal and were told that if they failed to meet the standards in their charter they would not be given another. They failed to do so, and we have to hold them accountable for that.''
But charter school advocates and leaders believe that by closing Peninsula Prep, the city is issuing a warning to schools that it is no longer sufficient to be as good as or slightly better than traditional public schools; they have to be exemplars.
Until now, the city's rate of closing for charters -- about 4 percent since the first charters were granted in 1999 -- was below the national average: 15 percent of charters across the country have been closed since 1992, according to a report by the Center for Education Reform, published last December.
By the city's standards, Peninsula was not the worst charter school, nor was it the best. Last year, 46 percent of Peninsula's students passed the state English exam, a better performance than 47 other city charters. On the math exam, 60 percent of its students scored as proficient. For the last four years, it received C's on its annual progress reports. It was, by definition, in the middle of the herd. But not on Far Rockaway, where those scores were high enough for Peninsula Prep to outperform 9 of the 10 elementary schools its students are zoned for.
Ericka Wala, Peninsula's principal since July 2009, said the school had been improving, though slowly.
''We were a struggling school in 2009 when everybody was A's and B's,'' Ms. Wala said, ''and when they raised the standard, we were able to maintain a C. The scores had to have gone up in order to do that. I do feel the school is being used as a warning.''
New York City has closed charter schools for poor performance in the past, but their test scores were dismal. In other cases, schools were closed after they had already been damaged by poor fiscal or management decisions. Last year, the city succeeded in closing the Ross Global Academy, a charter school led by Courtney Sale Ross, the multimillionaire widow of Steve Ross, the Time Warner chief executive. When the city announced plans to close the school, only 26 percent of its students had passed the state English test and 33 percent passed math.
James Merriman, chief executive of the New York City Charter School Center, said a confluence of factors might have led the city to raise the bar for renewing charter schools. In 2010, state education officials toughened the math and English exams administered annually to students in third through eighth grades, after years of complaints about test score inflation. Across the city, scores dropped precipitously, and suddenly schools that once appeared to be holding their own were actually found to be in distress.
Another factor is that as more charter schools reach their five-year renewal points, the city is judging them by their progress report grades, which were not given to schools opened and renewed before the reports began in 2008. The additional measurement affected Peninsula Prep, which failed to meet five of nine standards it had promised to reach, according to the city's renewal report. One of the standards was receiving at least a B on its progress report.
Charter school advocates said the Education Department had also become responsive to criticism that it treated charter schools differently from district schools. Since 2002, the city has closed 117 district schools, a vast majority of them for poor performance.
''School closure is built into the charter idea -- and needs to happen regardless,'' Mr. Merriman wrote in an e-mail. ''But certainly if a district is closing traditional schools for poor performance, not closing charter schools becomes doubly indefensible.''
On the other hand, he said charter school critics and the teachers' union had been too quick to urge the city to close charter schools, while defending failing district schools.
Mr. Duffy, who is now a managing director at Victory Education Partners, said that in the early years of the Bloomberg administration, the city was focused on opening many charters to give parents new choices. But in 2010, a change in legislation that lifted the cap on the number of charter schools also diminished the city's authority to open new charters, giving more power to the state Board of Regents. While the city is still focused on opening new charter schools -- Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has promised to open 25 each year -- charter advocates say the city's charter school office has more staff members and resources to scrutinize schools it already opened.
''I definitely think in 2012, what was good enough even five years ago is no longer good enough,'' Mr. Duffy said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (95%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



500 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: An Architect Who Is Building His Diversification

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
Pedro Gadanho, a 43-year-old Portuguese architect, may represent the future of the profession, in that he doesn't do much actual building. Instead, he has fashioned a gadfly-like career as a curator, writer, blogger and teacher, while finding time to squeeze in an architecture project or two each year, like Baltasar House, a boldly colored residence he designed in 2007 in Porto, Portugal, and the Torres Vedras house, which he designed in 2010 outside Lisbon.
Last month, Mr. Gadanho was hired by the Museum of Modern Art as a curator in its department of architecture and design. His duties will include organizing exhibitions and overseeing the Young Architects Program, an annual competition, organized by MoMA with its affiliate, MoMA PS1 in Queens, in which emerging architects build projects for MoMA PS1's courtyard. 
Mr. Gadanho predicts that his new MoMA post will end what he calls ''juggling in between different works,'' and will direct his focus on curating. ''I was allowed to play around with these possibilities for a long time,'' he said recently, speaking on the phone from Lisbon. ''But now, with this full-time job, which requires a lot of dedication, is the moment when I choose.'' Mr. Gadanho, who began working at MoMA this week, spoke about his role at the museum and the challenges facing architects today.
What are you most looking forward to in your new job?
Working with a collection -- both proposing an acquisition and working with what is already there historically -- is for me a new thing. I'm quite pleased with the challenge of presenting my first perspective of the collection in September. It's not a new thematic exhibition, but I think I can have a view that will make a stance: mainly, connecting artworks that are in the collection with work by architects.
You'll also be working with young architects, a group that is having difficulty finding jobs. Do you have any advice for them?
In Portugal, it's the same situation. The profession is at this crossroads in which the traditional practice has to be questioned. Possibly a section of the profession has to get closer to the attitude that artists have had for so many decades: doing unsolicited work, advancing their own ideas before someone asks them. Maybe architects have to get out of that high place in academia or in the corporate office and go back in the streets and find work there.
What do you mean by 'go back in the streets'?
I can give you a clear example. There are collectives of architects in Spain, where you also see a huge level of youth unemployment. They saw plots of land in the city that were vacant, so they had this subversive action in the streets, helping people self-build. In Berlin, architects started doing work for festivals, for temporary events and, in a sense, went against the notion of architecture as eternal.
This is what I've been calling ''performance architecture.'' These situations are, of course, marginal, but I think they are growing in importance, in terms of showing one of the directions in which the profession is moving.
I noticed that your own work is very colorful.
I wanted to keep my architecture activity a hobby, where I could explore certain things. The color comes from the fact that there was an over-dominance of the white and the gray and the black in recent years in minimalist architecture. I wanted to use objects that, just by their color, have a certain impact that disturbs your psychological impression of a space.
Like the red-and-white pill toilet I did in the Torres Vedras house. It's a playful object and, at the same time, it's functional. Of course, there is a lot of cultural reference there because of the works of Claes Oldenburg and Damien Hirst. It winks at these art references.
Pictures of the Torres Vedras house appeared on design and architecture blogs around the world. Yet you wrote on your blog that the exposure didn't lead to commissions.
It's quite an interesting moment in that respect: Architecture is more recognized than ever, by many more layers of the population, but that doesn't lead necessarily to architects being employed. People are just consuming images of your work, not really the possibility of you building it.
But as an optimist, I still believe such exposure is a positive asset to architects. They are communicating their ideas and transmitting what they do in a better way.
Will your new job leave you time to practice architecture?
That would be difficult. I'm committed to MoMA and to the work that I'm doing there now. This was a strange moment for me to choose curating, because this was the moment at which my architecture was becoming more recognized. But it's a conscious decision.
What is your favorite work of architecture in your new hometown?
I can't avoid the by-now-obvious answer of the High Line. I thought that was quite a stance, as opposed to the traditional construction in Manhattan. I also enjoy the New Museum.
But I prefer the city as a total impression, rather than an individual building. I love walking in New York because, as a city, it's quite overwhelming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO JUGGLING: Pedro Gadanho trades his gadfly-like career for a MoMA post.
 IN HIS COLLECTION: Baltasar House, a dwelling in Porto, Portugal, that Mr. Gadanho designed in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FERNANDO GUERRA/FG+SG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); WRITERS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PORTUGAL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



501 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Hostess Brands, Twinkies Maker, Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:22 p.m. Updated
Hostess Brands, known for sweet treats like Twinkies and Ding Dongs, is back in Chapter 11.
The company went from cream filling to bankruptcy filing on Wednesday, just three years after emerging from an earlier restructuring.
The company has been struggling under the weight of an $860 million debt load and soaring expenses tied to its labor force. Hostess has up to 100,000 creditors, chief among them labor unions and pension funds that represent the company's employees, according to the Chapter 11 petition filed in United States Bankruptcy Court in New York. 
''We remain hopeful that we can reach an agreement that will allow us to amend our labor contracts so that we can emerge from Chapter 11 as a highly competitive company that provides secure jobs for our employees,'' the company's president and chief executive, Brian J. Driscoll, said in a statement. If the company is unable to reach a new labor deal, Hostess said it would ask the bankruptcy court to halt the existing agreement.
But those with sweet-tooths across the country need not fret. Hostess said its return to bankruptcy would not disrupt the company's sale of baked goods. And executives are optimistic that, as it did last time around, Hostess will climb out of bankruptcy.
''With generations of loyal consumers, numerous iconic products and a talented and experienced work force, Hostess Brands has tremendous inherent strengths to build upon,'' Mr. Driscoll said.
Hostess, a privately held company based in Irving, Tex., has built an expansive list of products over the decades, perhaps none more craved than Twinkies. In addition, the company makes Wonder and Nature's Pride bread, Drake's snack cakes and other well-known brands.
Twinkies, the cream-filled sponge cakes, have been a guilty pleasure for decades. Jimmy Dewar, the creator of the tasty treat, once remarked: ''Twinkies was the best darn-tootin' idea I ever had.''
But over the last several years, concerns grew that the baked goods might outlive the 82-year old company itself. In 2004, confronted with escalating labor costs and fluctuating prices of flour and other ingredients, the company filed for Chapter 11. Hostess, then known as the Interstate Bakeries Corporation, completed the restructuring process in February 2009, when Ripplewood Holdings, a New York private equity firm, seized control.
The company faces similar troubles today.
While it recorded net revenue of about $2.5 billion in the fiscal year ended May 28, 2011, it posted a $341 million net loss. Burdensome debt and labor costs, compounded by the lingering economic downturn, ultimately prompted the bankruptcy, according to court documents.
About 80 percent of the company's 19,000 employees belong to a dozen separate unions, most notably the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, Mr. Driscoll explained in an affidavit attached to the bankruptcy filing.
In particular, Hostess said pension and medical benefits, as well as ''restrictive work rules,'' were cutting into profit. The company paid about $52 million in workers' compensation claims in the fiscal year ended May 28, 2011, the affidavit said.
Management sought cuts, but never sealed a deal with the unions. Competitors, Mr. Driscoll said, have lighter labor restrictions. For Hostess to achieve long-term viability, he said, it must ''achieve dramatic change to their labor agreements.''
The unions have moved to blunt some of the contentions, calling on Hostess executives to make their own compensation concessions.
''Our members have already given at the well, and this time it will take sacrifices among all parties - management, lenders, equity holders and employees - to restructure Hostess into a viable enterprise that is well positioned for future growth,'' Dennis Raymond, director of the Teamsters Bakery and Laundry Conference, said in the statement.
Hostess acknowledged that its business model was in need of a shake-up. Mr. Driscoll outlined plans to overhaul the company, with an eye toward ultimately breaking free of the bankruptcy process. The company, he said, aims to reduce its heavy debt load, obtain new capital investments to update its production and withdraw completely from multi-employer pension plans to ''achieve relief from the crippling costs of these plans.''
''With these changes, we can access capital to reinvest in our company again and begin to level the playing field with our competitors,'' Mr. Driscoll said in the company statement.
Perella Weinberg Partners is serving as a financial adviser to Hostess, while Jones Day is its law firm, according to the Chapter 11 filing.
In 2010, the company hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to explore a possible sale to Hershey, Pepperidge Farm and private equity companies, including Blackstone. But the potential suitors balked.
For now, Hostess has secured bankruptcy financing of up to $75 million from a group of lenders led by Silver Point Finance, according to the filing. That will allow the company to continue operating its bakeries and 570 bakery outlet stores - extending the already long shelf life of Twinkies.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hostess, the maker of breads and snacks, filed for bankruptcy citing debt of $860 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); BAKED GOODS (89%); BAKERIES (87%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); PETITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: HOSTESS BRANDS INC (92%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (92%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



502 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Value Of Teachers

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Suppose your child is about to enter the fourth grade and has been assigned to an excellent teacher. Then the teacher decides to quit. What should you do?
The correct answer? Panic!
Well, not exactly. But a landmark new research paper underscores that the difference between a strong teacher and a weak teacher lasts a lifetime. Having a good fourth-grade teacher makes a student 1.25 percent more likely to go to college, the research suggests, and 1.25 percent less likely to get pregnant as a teenager. Each of the students will go on as an adult to earn, on average, $25,000 more over a lifetime -- or about $700,000 in gains for an average size class -- all attributable to that ace teacher back in the fourth grade. That's right: A great teacher is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars to each year's students, just in the extra income they will earn.
The study, by economists at Harvard and Columbia universities, finds that if a great teacher is leaving, parents should hold bake sales or pass the hat around in hopes of collectively offering the teacher as much as a $100,000 bonus to stay for an extra year. Sure, that's implausible -- but their children would gain a benefit that far exceeds even that sum. 
Conversely, a very poor teacher has the same effect as a pupil missing 40 percent of the school year. We don't allow that kind of truancy, so it's not clear why we should put up with such poor teaching. In fact, the study shows that parents should pay a bad teacher $100,000 to retire (assuming the replacement is of average quality) because a weak teacher holds children back so much.
Our faltering education system may be the most important long-term threat to America's economy and national well-being, so it's frustrating that the presidential campaign is mostly ignoring the issue. Candidates are bloviating about all kinds of imaginary or exaggerated threats, while ignoring the most crucial one.
Mitt Romney, who after his victory in New Hampshire on Tuesday seems increasingly likely to be the Republican nominee, refers to education only in passing on his Web site. The topic receives no substantive discussion in his 160-page ''Believe in America'' economic plan.
This latest study should elevate the issue on the national agenda, because it not only underscores the importance of education but also illuminates how we might improve schools.
An essential answer: more good teachers. Or, to put it another way, fewer bad teachers. The obvious policy solution is more pay for good teachers, more dismissals for weak teachers.
One of the paradoxes of the school reform debate is that teachers' unions have resisted a focus on teacher quality; instead, they emphasize that the home is the foremost influence and that teachers can only do so much.
That's all true, and (as I've often written) we need an array of other antipoverty measures as well, especially early childhood programs. But the evidence is now overwhelming that even in a grim high-poverty school, some teachers have far more impact on their students than those in the classroom next door. Three consecutive years of data from student tests -- the ''value added'' between student scores at the beginning and end of each year -- reveal a great deal about whether a teacher is working out, the researchers found.
This study, by Raj Chetty and John N. Friedman of Harvard University and Jonah E. Rockoff of Columbia University, was influential because it involved a huge database of one million students followed from fourth grade to adulthood.
The blog of the Albert Shanker Institute, endowed by the American Federation of Teachers, praised the study as ''one of the most dense, important and interesting analyses on this topic in a very long time'' -- although it cautioned against policy conclusions (of the kind that I'm reaching).
What shone through the study was the variation among teachers. Great teachers not only raised test scores significantly -- an effect that mostly faded within a few years -- but also left their students with better life outcomes. A great teacher (defined as one better than 84 percent of peers) for a single year between fourth and eighth grades resulted in students earning almost 1 percent more at age 28.
Suppose that the bottom 5 percent of teachers could be replaced by teachers of average quality. The three economists found that each student in the classroom would have extra cumulative lifetime earnings of more than $52,000. That's more than $1.4 million in gains for the classroom.
Some Republicans worry that a federal role in education smacks of socialism. On the contrary, schools represent a tough-minded business investment in our economic future. And, increasingly, we're getting solid evidence of what reforms may help: teacher evaluations based on student performance, higher pay and prestige for good teachers, dismissals for weak teachers.
That, and not most of the fireworks that passes for politics these days, is the debate we should be having on a national stage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); EDUCATION REFORM (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



503 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Slower Growth in Health Spending

 BODY:
Health care spending in the United States increased at the slowest rate in half a century in 2009 and 2010, essentially keeping pace with the growth of the economy, according to the latest federal data. 
That looks like good news after decades of soaring health care spending that outpaced economic growth. The hitch: the main factor was the recession that left millions of Americans unemployed, uninsured, short of income, and unable or unwilling to spend money on health care.
Optimists hope that most of the decreased spending came about by eliminating care that was not really medically necessary. Pessimists fear that many low-income people are forgoing care they need, increasing the likelihood that they will eventually become sicker and require costly hospitalization. They may both be right.
The data show that total health care spending by public and private sources, including households, rose by 3.8 percent in 2009 and 3.9 percent in 2010. Spending slowed for hospital care, physician services, nursing homes, home care and especially prescription drugs, as consumers increasingly chose cheaper generics.
Growth in spending by both Medicare and Medicaid actually slowed in 2010 compared with 2009, even though the federal government ramped up its share of the nation's total health care spending while private businesses reduced their share.
Out-of-pocket spending by consumers rose in 2010 compared with 2009, as many workers paid higher premiums, deductibles and co-payments or lost their insurance coverage. But out-of-pocket spending still grew more slowly than the annual average between 2000 and 2008, probably because consumers decided to spend less on health care.
So far, the health care reform law has had little impact on total spending even though some of its provisions, like prescription drug rebates for Medicare beneficiaries, have already kicked in.
The real impact will come in 2014 when there will be an expansion of Medicaid and a new federal subsidy program for low- and middle-income Americans.
It's too early to know whether the trend of slower growth will persist after the economy improves. What is certain is that as the population ages, controlling spending will require reforms that coordinate delivery of services, reduce unnecessary care and spur innovations that improve quality and curb medical costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); HOSPITALS (79%); NURSING HOMES (79%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (79%); HEALTH CARE LAW (79%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (79%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (74%); MEDICAID (74%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



504 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: Bang for the Buck

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ALBANY
I'VE long considered myself something of a dollar store hobbyist, always keen to explore those strange overstuffed and understaffed emporiums. I like to think this is a sign of my sense of adventure, or my appreciation for the possibility of finding treasure among the stacks of plastics, paper goods and other environmentally noxious items.
My ex thought it was because I was cheap. Such disagreements may have had something to do with my recent need to outfit a new home for myself. And because my apartment is in Albany, the state's capital and perhaps its dollar-store capital as well, my habit has turned into something resembling a full-time job.
In recent years, chains like Family Dollar, Dollar Tree and Dollar General have proliferated here and other cities across the country, adding hundreds of outlets to the existing assortment of mom-and-pop shops, the descendants of the traditional five-and-dime stores. Some of that growth can be attributed to the recession, of course, and the subsequent belt-tightening up and down the economic ladder. But there may be something else at work, too. 
What might not be evident to most people is that in many ways the dollar store isn't what it used to be: it's better.
Indeed, while old-time one-buck peddlers hawked mostly cheap plastic products that wore out in a matter of days (but could clog a landfill for a lifetime), nowadays many dollar stores sell merchandise made of real glass, stainless steel, ceramics or fabric (and not polyester, which is just plastic in disguise).
I should know. In the last few months, I've outfitted or accessorized a kitchen, bathroom, office, dining room and several other rooms in my new apartment with all manner of $1 purchases.
My son's room has been decorated with $1 letters covered in $1 paint spelling out his name (J A K E), and his fish swims around a $1 Elmo figurine. My pantry is stocked with $1 herbs in $1 jars, and $1 soups stacked alongside $1 canned veggies. I've amassed a collection of $1 ground spices (like cumin, cinnamon and mustard) and $1 salts (celery, bacon and garlic, among others).
I used $1 remedies while moving in (aspirin, muscle rub, bandages) and $1 luxuries to help me relax after (bubble bath, baby oil, cocktail glasses). I found $1 books to read (or leaf through, anyway) and $1 movies to mock. I washed clothes, dishes and myself with $1 soaps, and counters, tubs and sinks with $1 solvents. And I trudged from dollar shop to dollar shop with a $1 stocking cap pulled over my $1-fixated head.
In total, I spent about $200 -- and several days of my life -- in dollar stores of various kinds and sizes, in pursuit of products that in years past I might have bought from better-known, and more expensive, retailers.
All of which goes a long way toward explaining the recent success of dollar stores. In November, for example, Dollar Tree, the largest chain that sells only $1 items, reported quarterly net sales of $1.6 billion at its more than 4,000 locations in the United States and Canada, up nearly 12 percent from the same period the previous year. And last week, Family Dollar, which has a whopping 7,100 stores in 45 states and carries items with prices that can reach the double digits (a $35 home music system, too rich for my blood), reported that it had set a new record in the fall, with more than $2.1 billion in net sales of what it calls ''a mix of name brands and quality private brand merchandise.''
A good chunk of that ''private brand merchandise,'' of course, comes from China and India, which are home to huge suppliers of dollar stores, not to mention some questionable manufacturing methods. But spokesmen for both stores insisted that the goods are safe (meaning they've been tested for lead) and were produced in humane working conditions.
''We want to work with organizations that treat their people well and take care of the environment,'' said Joshua Braverman, a spokesman for Family Dollar. And while he acknowledged that the company's ''global sourcing program'' partnered with factories around the world, Mr. Braverman patriotically insisted that ''a majority of merchandise is from here in the United States.''
But there's also plenty that isn't. Take the Cristar line of glassware that I found -- and bought loads of -- at Yankee One Dollar, a chain that operates 32 stores in New York and Vermont. The glasses, which are simple, solid and decidedly unsexy, are imported from Colombia in shipping containers and then trucked upstate.
The national chains may be thriving, said Keith Flike, the owner of Yankee One Dollar, but increases in costs to transport such containers, as well as price increases passed on from overseas suppliers, are threatening regional dollar stores like his own.
''Last year, the Chinese raised their prices 15 cents on a bunch of stuff,'' Mr. Flike said. ''And 15 cents when you're selling for $1 is a big chunk of profits.''
And from the consumer's point of view, for sheer selection, it is hard to beat the big chains, which sometimes offer upward of 10,000 products in a single store.
Cleaning supplies and perishable items like food, health and beauty products make up about half of Dollar Tree's business, said Timothy J. Reid, the company's vice president for investor relations. But such ''trip starters,'' as they are known in the business, often lead to purchases of durable goods like glasses, plates and stemware. So Dollar Tree now has a dedicated housewares section in some stores.
As Mr. Braverman, of Family Dollar, put it, cleaning goods are ''almost like the gateway product'' for many dollar store shoppers.
''It starts with cleaning goods,'' he said, ''and ends up with a bedspread.''
WITHIN days of moving to Albany in late September, I began feeling the pull of addiction.
As Mr. Braverman predicted, my first stop was innocent enough: a small 99-cent store along Central Avenue, the city's hardscrabble commercial strip, home to car dealerships, mini-malls and signs for unfortunately named local businesses like Grimm Building Materials. I bought a few bars of soap, a shower caddy, a trash can. Nothing major, nothing that required a bill larger than $5. No problem.
But a few days later, I discovered the Cristar collection at Yankee One Dollar, and soon I had acquired four tumblers. A few weeks later, I added champagne flutes and cocktail and wine glasses. Nearby, I noticed a nice glass vase and some decent votive candle holders. Which required votive candles, of course. Then I realized I needed some kitchen stuff, too: a ladle, a spatula, a set of wooden spoons. And look at those coffee mugs. ...
I broke a $20.
Then came the holidays. Dollar stores are masters of the seasonal sale. They barely wait until New Year's Day to break out the Valentine's candy. And at Dollar Tree, the holiday merchandise is always displayed at the front of the store to lure people in toward other aisles, where they might find things like a ''Star Wars'' puzzle, a set of playing cards or a ''Cars 2'' sticker book, all for only $1 each. Those aisles lead the shopper to the cleaning supplies -- aha! -- and then on to foodstuffs and beauty goods and spices.
I found myself reaching for a set of matching plates and bowls (red, like my bottom line) and my corporate card.
Soon, though, I hit rock bottom. The occasion was a visit to an indie dollar store on the south side of Albany, which like many of its kind was part immigrant entrepreneurship, part bait-and-switch.
Not everything, it turned out, was 99 cents; many prices simply ended in 99 cents. But by this point, I fancied myself a savvy dollar shopper, able to find the deals amid the detritus.
It was when I picked up the MSG (just 99 cents) that I knew I had a problem. Here was a product I would never use -- would never even touch -- if it weren't for the appeal of the price. And yet, I bought it.
I began to panic. What was I doing? Had I become a crass consumer? A hoarder? Or, worse still, was my ex right, that I was simply a cheapskate?
Once I got home, I calmed down. Much of what I had purchased over the last several months, I decided, was O.K. My desk was well organized, my pantry well stocked and my bathroom nearly spotless. My son had some nifty toys, and I had an impressive collection of glassware.
I also had a lot of things I didn't need: three sets of salt shakers, two bottles of ground cinnamon and, of course, the MSG.
What I needed, I realized, was to purge -- to rid myself of all those unnecessary items. Throwing them away would make me feel better. But first I needed a decent trash bag.
And I knew just where to get one.
Watching Your Fives and Dimes
While many old-time dollar stores were like a cross between a pawn shop and your grandmother's attic, the modern dollar emporium is often a far more sophisticated operation, with clean aisles, its own line of products and thousands of locations. Dollar General, for example, has nearly 10,000 stores in 38 states, with new ones expected to open in California and Massachusetts this year. All of which means more opportunity to squander your child's college fund, one dollar at a time. But there are ways to control this urge during your one-dollar odyssey.
KNOW THE TERRITORY
The genius of some dollar stores lies in their layout. Dollar Tree, for instance, makes a point of putting seasonal items at the front of the store, close to party supplies, which tend to be in demand during, you guessed it, the holidays. That section naturally flows toward the area where you can find the cleaning supplies (for the after-party tidy-up), which usually leads to the food section: frozen, canned, candied, dried and other (for sustenance while you clean, naturally). The secret to not getting caught in this clever labyrinth is heading straight for the area that has what you need.
ONE AND DONE
Of course, sometimes you don't know what you need until you see it for a dollar. Or two for $1.50. Dollar stores, like most retailers, operate on the principle of more is better, or the price-per-unit paradox, something that requires a moment or two of rational thinking to break through. For example: It is true that if you buy four four-ounce bottles of ground mustard for $3, you are paying only 75 cents a bottle. But it is probably also true that you will never, in your entire life, consume a pound of ground mustard. So just buy one -- unless, of course, you're running a German restaurant.
REMEMBER: THERE IS ALWAYS MORE ...
Dollar stores survive by moving merchandise quickly. Timothy J. Reid, vice president of investor relations for Dollar Tree, said his company prides itself on having ''a very flexible assortment model'' in its more than 4,300 stores, which are fed by nine gigantic distribution centers. ''We don't have to have any particular item,'' Mr. Reid said. ''So things change out quite rapidly.'' Still, it is unlikely that you won't ever see that item again, and not just at that particular store or chain. Suppliers are not picky about which stores buy their low-cost items, so you can expect to see many of the same products -- or at least similar ones -- at various dollar stores.
... UNLESS THERE ISN'T
One of the singular joys of dollar-store shopping is finding the odd orphans of mass production. At Yankee One Dollar, I happened on a Frankenstein monster of a tome, ''Chicken Soup for the American Idol Soul,'' with a special foreword by Paula Abdul calling it ''the merging of two great twenty-first-century tours de force.'' At another independent dollar store, I found a vast collection of unsung attempts at filmmaking, including a campfire horror flick called ''Moonstalker,'' starring someone named Ingrid Vold, and a Jaime Pressly-Jeremy Sisto drama called, appropriately enough, ''Trash.'' (I bought both. I finished neither.) For family fun, I've found a board game about the Underground Railroad (yes, that underground railroad) and a set of cards teaching Euchre for Dummies. There are Bizarro versions of Pepto-Bismol (Pink Bismuth) and ChapStick (Chap-Ex). And, of course, there is the Family Gourmet series of cookies I discovered at Family Dollar, which bear a striking resemblance to those of the Girl Scouts. ''They are not Girl Scouts,'' said Joshua Braverman, a Family Dollar spokesman. ''But the parallel has been drawn.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DOLLAR STORE AND A DREAM: At $1 a pop, the writer set up his apartment with tableware, decor for his son, $1 ground spices, and toiletries. (D1)
DOLLAR-STORE DECOR: In the author's apartment: cleaning supplies, which make up half of one chain's sales
breakfast (and reading) material
and office supplies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR TONDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) GRAPHICS (D1
D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); PLASTICS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (72%); LANDFILLS (50%)

COMPANY: DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (90%)

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



505 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: When You Are Disabled and Need a Taxi

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Hailing the Wrong Taxi,'' by Matthew W. Daus, a former chairman of the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission (Op-Ed, Jan. 5): 
While the dial-a-ride taxi service that Mr. Daus proposes might work for some, it excludes the thousands of working New Yorkers who need to arrive at work on time. Inefficient plans like these contribute to the low employment rate of people with disabilities: less than a third are employed.
Mr. Daus's proposal also disregards tourists, for whom home pickup is not an option. They would be exposed to the elements for an undetermined period of time, waiting for taxis to find them.
In a society that guarantees equality, we must go the extra mile to ensure opportunities for all, even when it isn't economically efficient, especially for essentials like access to transportation.
CAROL GLAZER Pres., Natl. Organization on Disability New York, Jan. 5, 2012
To the Editor:
Matthew W. Daus doesn't pay attention to the needs and rights of people with disabilities. The new taxi legislation announced by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last month that would put 2,000 wheelchair-accessible cabs on the streets will not only benefit wheelchair users but also aging baby boomers and returning veterans. If London can run a 100 percent accessible fleet, so can New York City.
Mr. Daus says ''many disabled riders would far prefer home pickup to an uncertain wait on a corner in bad weather''; he is out of touch with a population that has been working to secure the same rights for street hails that able-bodied citizens have.
The city tried a dispatch system, as he notes, and it failed miserably. Mr. Daus now wants the city to go back into the dispatch business when it can simply require new taxis to be accessible.
The new legislation will not force taxpayers to ''foot the bill'' but will save them hundreds of millions by reducing demand for Access-a-Ride, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's $462 million-a-year, $50-a-ride cost to taxpayers. Benefits-related travel made by people in wheelchairs sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs and Medicaid could be made at far less expense by accessible taxi than by ambulette.
Mr. Daus's failure to provide meaningful service to people with disabilities is the reason a lawsuit and legislation were required.
JAMES WEISMAN Sr. V.P. and General Counsel United Spinal Association East Elmhurst, Queens, Jan. 5, 2012
To the Editor:
Matthew W. Daus doesn't recognize that handicap-accessible cabs provide usable transportation to people with various types of disabilities, not only to wheelchair-bound people. A more accessible fleet of taxis will facilitate easier transit for the elderly, people affected by arthritis, muscle and joint illnesses, and injuries, people with strollers and so on.
More important, a ''centralized taxi-dispatch system for disabled riders'' assumes that disabled people only travel alone, and that they need taxis only for planned situations. A disabled person should be able to hail a taxi for himself and a group of friends or family, like any other New Yorker.
JARED NEWMARK New York, Jan. 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DISABLED ACCESS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MEDICAID (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); LITIGATION (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION ON DISABILITY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



506 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: New Rules On Swaps Will Protect Big Traders

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:16 p.m. Updated
Wall Street investors will receive significant new protections under a plan adopted by federal regulators on Wednesday, an overhaul that comes in the wake of the collapse of MF Global.
When MF Global filed for bankruptcy last year, some $1.2 billion in customer money vanished from the brokerage firm. The firm's futures customers, farmers and hedge funds alike, are still without nearly a third of their money.
But the new rules would not prevent a brokerage firm from repeating MF Global's mistake of misusing customer money, nor would they apply to any futures industry clients like those of MF Global. 
Instead, the changes affect only customers who trade swaps, a complex derivative contract that allows companies to hedge exposure to interest rates and other financial products. These investors are usually Wall Street banks, hedge funds and large companies.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 4 to 1 on Wednesday to adopt the overhaul.
The rules seek to protect swaps customer accounts by segregating them from a brokerage firm's money. And when a swaps customer defaults at a bankrupt brokerage firm, the new rule will keep other customers' cash off limits.
''Today's segregation rule is an important step forward in protecting customers and reducing the risk of swaps trading,'' Gary Gensler, the agency's chairman, said at a meeting in Washington on Wednesday.
''Segregation of customer funds is the core foundation of customer protection in the commodity futures and swaps markets.''
The commission has spent more than a year writing some 50 rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory crackdown passed in response to the financial crisis.
On Wednesday, the agency also took up final rules that detailed standards for swaps traders and outlined how such firms should register with regulators. Commissioners voted 4 to 1 to adopt those rules.
Separately, the agency voted on an initial plan known as the Volcker Rule to bar banks from using their own money to place trades. Named for Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, the agency's proposal comes three months after several other regulators first voted on the rule.
The C.F.T.C. approved the plan on a vote of 3 to 2.
Even amid this wave of arcane rules, the agency's new customer segregation policy stands out as one of its most complex.
Though the rule requires brokerage firms to keep their house accounts separate from customer cash, customer money can be pooled together as long as the firm is not in bankruptcy. Under the rule, brokerage firms must turn over, at least once a day, data indicating that their customer accounts are safe.
Such protections mirror longtime rules for the futures industry; the swaps industry had been largely unregulated for decades. Unlike in the futures industry, however, when a brokerage firm fails in the swaps industry because one of its customers defaults, cash from customers in good standing cannot be raided.
Jill Sommers, a Republican commissioner who voted against the rule, said she was wary of affording special treatment to swaps customers.
''I'm very concerned,'' she said, of adopting ''protections that do not apply'' to futures customers. ''I do not accept this piecemeal approach to customer protection as a step in the right direction.''
Alluding to the MF Global debacle, Ms. Sommers added that ''due to the recent events we need to rethink this approach so we can provide adequate protections in a comprehensive and coherent way.''
Mr. Gensler indicated he was open to extending the rules to the futures industry. But first, he said, his staff must analyze such changes and hold public meetings to ponder the overhaul.
And the changes, some commissioners said, are not a cure-all even for swaps.
Some giant money managers like Fidelity Investments have pushed the agency to go even further to protect swaps customers, saying customer money should not be pooled at all. The MF Global case has highlighted that unless each customer account is held separately, it is difficult to detect a misuse of client cash.
Scott O'Malia, a Republican commissioner who said he reluctantly supported the rule, said that it would not prevent a repeat of MF Global.
''This rule-making does not address MF Global,'' he said. ''By its own admission, this rule making only protects against fellow-customer risk.''
But the agency's Democratic commissioners defended the rule as an initial step toward safer customers and better markets.
''We shouldn't let the perfect be the enemy of the good,'' said Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jill Sommers
Gary Gensler, right
 and Scott O'Malia, foreground, of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



507 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Republican Rivals Batter Romney in South Carolina

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Lexington, S.C.

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- For the Republican presidential candidates who want to stop Mitt Romney in South Carolina, it comes down to this: How far are they willing to go?
A day after Mr. Romney's victory in New Hampshire left his rivals running out of time to block his path to the nomination, he was greeted here by a wave of attacks on his business record, his past support for abortion rights and his character.
With little left to lose, Newt Gingrich, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and their allies sought to portray Mr. Romney as insufficiently steadfast in his conservatism in this very conservative state, threatening a scorched-earth approach to the primary to be held here on Jan. 21.
But there were some signs that a pressure campaign from the party establishment -- encouraged and to some degree organized by pro-Romney forces -- was forcing his rivals to recalibrate if not rethink the attacks. A growing chorus of high-profile Republicans criticized the attacks on Mr. Romney's earlier career buying and selling companies as Democratic talking points. 
Two days after former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah said that Mr. Romney ''likes firing people,'' The Associated Press reported him as saying on Wednesday: ''If you have creative destruction in capitalism, which has always been part of capitalism, it becomes a little disingenuous to take on Bain Capital,'' Mr. Romney's former firm.
But Mr. Gingrich said he would not back off as an outside ''super PAC'' supporting him introduced a scathing video about Mr. Romney's work at Bain. And Mr. Perry kept up his critique of what he has called Mr. Romney's ''vulture capitalism.''
It was Day 1 of what is shaping up as a 10-day test of whether conservatives can marshal the arguments, tactics and unity to slow Mr. Romney and rally around a single alternative -- and of whether Mr. Romney, now in a commanding position, can show the muscle needed to stamp out the opposition and take control of the party.
Mr. Romney utilized the full force of his formidable campaign machinery to create a backlash against the attacks on his record at Bain. Employing resources no other campaign can match, his Boston headquarters held conference calls with his huge array of endorsers around the nation, sent talking points to supporters and enlisted go-betweens to tell leaders of the pro-Gingrich group Winning Our Future that they were harming the party with the attacks.
At the very least, Mr. Romney's team appeared to have made headway in casting his opponents as abandoning their own party's longstanding support for the free market. It received backing Wednesday from two political voices that have had the respect of the Tea Party movement here in ways Mr. Romney has not: Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who has endorsed Mr. Romney, and Senator Jim DeMint, who has not.
''I am baffled by the fact that we are putting the free market on trial here,'' Ms. Haley said in an interview on Wednesday. ''I'm concerned for my party. The free market's what we fight for.''
Speaking on ''The Laura Ingraham Show,'' Mr. DeMint lectured Mr. Gingrich: ''Newt, you're a great American. Get back on your positive focus. Talk about your big ideas.'' He singled out Mr. Gingrich's attacks on Mr. Romney for changing his position on abortion, saying, ''This idea of condemning people who change their minds is not a good idea for any of us.''
It was potentially critical cover in a state where Mr. Romney's past positions in favor of abortion, and his Mormon religion, could tilt important evangelical voters against him. Mr. Romney seemed to try to get out ahead of the possibility that evangelical voters might spurn him based on his Mormonism, saying on MSNBC on Wednesday morning that he was not running for ''pastor in chief'' and emphasizing the economy and national security.
Those comments came as national evangelical leaders prepared to meet in Texas this weekend to consider backing one of Mr. Romney's rivals, and his campaign was on guard for any movement to coalesce behind an alternative to him.
In the morning, Mr. Romney had declared the attacks against his business background a failure. But later, with others taking on his opponents for him, Mr. Romney did not mention the subject when it came time to address supporters here Wednesday evening. He kept his focus instead on President Obama.
The spirited new phase of the campaign was on full display here; on a Christian radio station, a commercial for Rick Santorum informed listeners that he had home-schooled his children, supported anti-abortion legislation and called for ''all conservatives to unite.'' Ron Paul's campaign was showing an advertisement attacking Mr. Santorum for ''a record of betrayal'' on federal spending.
But it was Mr. Gingrich and the ''super PAC'' supporting him, Winning Our Future, that was being watched most carefully. With millions of dollars behind it from the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, it was poised to have as big an effect on Mr. Romney as any other opposing force.
At a private meeting of Mr. Romney's national finance committee on Wednesday morning, Senator John McCain helped make the case that it was time for Republicans to begin gathering around Mr. Romney's candidacy and pushing back against the attacks from Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Perry and other rivals.
But the pro-Gingrich group's leaders did not seem to be shaken by that or by more direct pressure on them to cease and desist.
''We're not going to back off an inch,'' said a senior adviser to the group, Rick Tyler, who took issue with the accusation from Mr. Romney's supporters that his group was ''attacking capitalism.''
''This isn't about attacking capitalism,'' Mr. Tyler said. ''This is about Mitt Romney's record on jobs, but more importantly, it's about who is best qualified, given their records, to create jobs in South Carolina.''
The Republican pressure came from all sides. A voter approached Mr. Gingrich in Spartanburg, S.C., and said that he, too, opposed Mr. Romney. But he pleaded for him to ''lay off the corporatist versus the free market'' language.
While Mr. Gingrich said, ''I agree with you,'' he sought to draw the distinction that his criticism was not an attack on capitalism. His spokesman followed up with a statement that he did not intend to soften his stance, which he made clear in a message to supporters.
''There's no more time for talking about stopping Mitt Romney,'' the message said. ''We're going to do it next week in South Carolina or he's almost certain to be the Republican nominee, whether conservatives like us want it or not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ABORTION (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



508 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: The Landscape After New Hampshire

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Republican Contest'' (editorial, Jan. 11):
It is more a battle of tired, failed slogans than a real contest. If the newly incarnated conservative Mitt Romney goes on to win the nomination, his history suggests that the country will get a combination Romney-Gingrich-Santorum-Huntsman-Perry candidate.
A combination of bad ideas does not make them good. The Republican ''contest'' does show the country that we should have a clear choice in November. We can continue the failed policies (except for millionaires) of the past decades, or we can really try to make the American dream possible for all of our citizens. 
THEODORE S. VOELKER New York, Jan. 11, 2012
To the Editor:
Mitt Romney, in remarks after his New Hampshire primary victory, once again talked about his presidential ''to do'' list and the one item always on it: ''He passed Obamacare; I'll repeal it.'' No, Mitt, we are not a monarchy, theocracy or totalitarian government. We are a tripartite government. For a repeal you'd have to deal with Congress.
President Obama is getting blamed by the Republicans -- listen to all the presidential candidates -- for the slow pace of a jobs recovery when it is the House Republican majority that has obstructed measures the president has introduced to kick-start economic progress.
Citizens need a refresher course in Government 101 well before Election Day to understand who is responsible for what.
GERALDYN ECKBER Bridgeport, Conn., Jan. 11, 2012
To the Editor:
I can hardly wait for the coming hilarity of hearing all the Republican candidates now denigrating Mitt Romney start to laud him as what this country needs as a president if and when he wins the nomination.
SAUL RICKLIN Bristol, R.I., Jan. 11, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''Advisers Work to Put Positive Spin on Romney's Career in Corporate Buyouts'' (news article, Jan. 11):
It's about time that Mitt Romney's corporate strategies came to light. Next, I want to know when the 99 percent are going to see his tax returns and calculate his effective tax rate, so that they can compare it with their own.
If not now, when?
LOIS BERKOWITZ Oro Valley, Ariz., Jan. 11, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''The Corporate Candidates'' (editorial, Jan. 10):
The Republican candidates who are criticizing Mitt Romney for his work at Bain Capital are practicing the ultimate in hypocrisy. They all advocate the same type of regulation-free, no-holds-barred capitalism that Mr. Romney practiced.
I am no supporter of Mr. Romney, but that his opponents can say this with a straight face is beyond me.
KENNETH J. DAVIS Scotch Plains, N.J., Jan. 10, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''Please Hold the Cheese,'' by Frank Bruni (column, Jan. 10), pointing out the hypocrisy-saturated Republican primary race:
It would be a public service to publish a hypocrisy index (think of Newt Gingrich and family-values advocacy, or Mitt Romney and job creation). I am sure that some political science professor could work out an algorithm resulting in an index score.
Of course, candidates could have low hypocrisy index scores and still have ideas that are anathema, but at least you would know that they ''walk the talk.''
BOB ISENBERG Tacoma, Wash., Jan. 11, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); COMPANY STRATEGY (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (52%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



509 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Blend of Politics and Pragmatism at the Auto Show

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- As the automotive industry rebounds, this year's Detroit auto show features more dazzle, more optimism and more politicians winding their way through the exhibits.
A sizable delegation from the Obama administration, four governors and numerous members of Congress have been among the visitors this week to the preview days of the show. The visits highlight the unavoidable connection that Detroit has had with Washington since 2009, when General Motors and Chrysler went through bankruptcy protection, earning G.M. the nickname ''Government Motors.''
The show is more than just a chance for the politicians to pose for photos or kick the tires of new models. Many take only a cursory walk across the convention center, spending most of their time in Detroit meeting with auto executives about new jobs, fuel-economy standards and future products. 
''I sense a new energy in this industry, and I'd like to believe we're part of that energy,'' said Gov. Jay Nixon of Missouri. ''If I can make a little bit of a difference by representing six million Missourians with my presence here, it's worth it.''
Missouri is among the big beneficiaries of the industry's revival, with the Ford Motor Company and G.M. recently announcing plans to invest a combined $1.5 billion to expand plants in that state. While in Detroit, Governor Nixon is meeting with officials from both companies and from numerous parts suppliers that might start operations to support the auto plants.
At various times on Tuesday, Ford's exhibit area played host to the commerce secretary, John E. Bryson, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan and a delegation of elected officials from Kentucky that included the mayor of Louisville, home to one of Ford's biggest assembly plants.
William Clay Ford Jr., Ford's executive chairman, gave Mr. Bryson a tour of the company's most fuel-efficient new vehicles, including an all-electric version of the Focus compact car and a plug-in hybrid variation of its new Fusion sedan.
The meeting with Governor Snyder took a different tack, focusing on new jobs being created at Michigan factories. While the presentations were hardly newsworthy, the intense interest by government officials in Ford's resurgence was welcomed by the company's executives.
Alan R. Mulally, Ford's chief executive, said Detroit's surprising comeback and the rebound in vehicle sales last year has underscored the importance of the industry to the nation's economy.
''Our government leaders are asking us what they can do to create an environment where businesses can grow,'' Mr. Mulally said.
While political figures and government officials, including the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, and Lisa Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, were descending on the Detroit show, one of Ford's top executives, Mark Fields, traveled on Wednesday to Washington to participate in President Obama's forum on ''Insourcing American Jobs.''
Mr. Fields, president of Ford's Americas unit, detailed how the company's new labor contract was allowing it to add thousands of jobs that would have previously gone to Mexico and China.
Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief executive, was already on a first-name basis with the energy secretary, Steven Chu, when the two met Tuesday at the Chrysler stand.
Just days before, they had huddled in Washington about the status of the company's application for a $3 billion loan from the Energy Department for retooling plants for more fuel-efficient vehicles. Mr. Marchionne said he had reduced the amount the company was requesting in hopes of finally obtaining the loan after waiting more than two years.
''We are still talking with Chrysler, and we hope to move forward, but there are no promises as to what will happen,'' Mr. Chu told reporters after delivering a speech on Wednesday to the Detroit Economic Club on the auto show floor.
At the show, Mr. Marchionne showed Mr. Chu the new Dodge Dart, the first new model derived from a car created by Fiat, its Italian parent. Production of the Dart, which will get an estimated 40 miles a gallon of gas, allowed Fiat to gain an additional 5 percent ownership stake in Chrysler as part of the rescue plan that Mr. Marchionne negotiated in 2009 with the Obama administration. It now owns 58.5 percent.
Mr. Chu also pored over a new 1.4-liter engine on display at the Chrysler exhibit, causing his aides to fret that he was falling behind on his schedule to visit the other automakers.
Governor Snyder of Michigan circled the convention hall Tuesday, posting periodic updates of the cars he was seeing on his Twitter page and photos on Facebook.
Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio met with executives from Ford, G.M. and Honda, which announced this week that it would build a plant in Ohio to made the Acura NSX that it unveiled here. Mr. Kasich said he was not here just looking to shake hands with the executives but rather to discuss specific steps the state can take to facilitate more automotive activity there.
''We come away with assignments,'' Mr. Kasich said. ''You're not going to earn new business just because you have a good relationship.''
The show began to take on more of a political atmosphere several years ago, when the Detroit carmakers were spiraling into financial disarray. Each of the shows since G.M. and Chrysler started receiving federal aid in late 2008 has attracted more attention from Washington, which previously had a rather antagonistic relationship with Detroit.
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who had spoken out against the bailouts during heated Congressional hearings, upstaged one day of the 2009 auto show with an appearance. The previous year, Republican presidential candidates crisscrossed the floor on the eve of Michigan's primary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Chu, the energy secretary, in a Dodge Dart with Joe Veltri, a Chrysler vice president, at the Detroit auto show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); JAY NIXON (58%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); STEVEN CHU (57%); LISA P JACKSON (57%); RICK SNYDER (57%); JOHN E BRYSON (50%); ALAN MULALLY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



510 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: China Balks as Geithner Presses for Iran Curbs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner pressed Chinese senior leaders on Wednesday to join an American-led campaign to reduce sharply Iran's lucrative oil exports because of its nuclear program. And as they had before Mr. Geithner's arrival here on Tuesday, Chinese officials said publicly that they wanted no part of the effort. 
But President Obama's administration, armed with a new law that would punish foreign financial institutions that deal with Iran, appeared undeterred.
''We are in the early stages of a broad global diplomatic effort to take advantage of this new legislation to significantly intensify the pressure on Iran,'' a senior administration official said on Wednesday. ''We are telling them what's important to us, and they are listening.'' The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the diplomatic importance of the issues.
The discussions on Iran were a highlight of Mr. Geithner's separate meetings with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, Vice President Xi Jinping and Vice Prime Minister Li Keqiang, which covered the landscape of economic and trade relations between China and the United States. Because the Treasury Department is responsible for enforcing sanction laws, Mr. Geithner spent time explaining the new legislation, which would generally deny access to the American financial system for foreign financial institutions that do business with Iran's Central Bank.
The law exempts institutions in nations that achieve ''significant reduction'' in their imports of oil from Iran. How much is ''significant'' is not defined, giving the White House broad leeway to promise dispensations to big oil buyers that make at least some effort to meet the requirement.
China is among Iran's biggest oil customers. It relies on Tehran for more than 11 percent of its oil imports and 5 percent of its total supply, and it has extensive business interests in the Iranian oil industry. Although China has carried out United Nations sanctions against Iran, it also has worked hard to water down proposals for sanctions that have gone before the Security Council, where it has a veto.
On Wednesday, a Chinese foreign affairs vice minister, Zhai Jun, dismissed the latest American proposal, just as a second vice minister, Cui Tiankai, had done in a meeting with foreign journalists on Monday.
''We oppose pressuring or international sanctions, because these pressures and sanctions are not helpful,'' he said. ''They have not solved any issues. We believe these problems should be solved by dialogue.''
But the Obama administration tends to discount Beijing's public statements, and it instead watches what the government actually does.
Mr. Geithner also pressed the Chinese on a range of economic and trade concerns, including complaints by American businesses that Chinese companies continue to steal their intellectual property, like software and industrial technology, and that Beijing denies American companies equal access to its markets.
He also pressed the Chinese once again to allow their currency, the renminbi, to appreciate faster against the dollar. The United States says the value of the renminbi is deliberately kept low to give Chinese products a price advantage in export markets.
But while some Chinese experts want faster appreciation, the political consensus within the government is to allow it to continue to gain value slowly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, right, with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China on Wednesday in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); VETO (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); XI JINPING (79%); WEN JIABAO (66%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LI KEQIANG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



511 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls for Tax Breaks To Return Jobs From Abroad

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama said on Wednesday that he would propose tax incentives for companies to bring home manufacturing jobs they had moved overseas, and curtail tax breaks for those that keep relocating jobs abroad.
Flanked by executives from the aerospace, chemical and furniture industries -- all of whom are building or expanding factories in the United States -- Mr. Obama declared that the nation was beginning to see the reversal of a long-term trend toward outsourcing. He called the new trend, perhaps inevitably, ''insourcing.''
''We're at a unique moment, an inflection point, a period where we've got the opportunity for those jobs to come back,'' Mr. Obama said in the White House, after meeting with the executives. The American economy, he noted, has added manufacturing jobs for two years in a row, after more than a decade of losses. 
The president did not offer details of the tax proposals, which presumably would be subject to approval by Congress, though he renewed his call on lawmakers to approve a one-year extension of the payroll tax cut that will expire at the end of February.
Mr. Obama said an increase in labor costs in China was eroding its advantage over the United States as a manufacturing base, a message the White House sought to buttress by circulating a research report from the Boston Consulting Group, a prominent management consulting organization. The president also said recent trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama would open markets for American exports.
Economists said small changes in tax policy would play only a marginal role in deciding where companies build factories. But with labor costs rising overseas, such changes could help reinforce a fledgling trend, they said. ''There's been a little bit of momentum on 'insourcing' because a lot of firms overdid it,'' said Jared Bernstein, the former chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''So it could help a bit at the margin.''
Mr. Obama cited examples from companies represented in the room: Ford Motor, which the president said had moved 2,000 jobs back to the United States; Master Lock, which relocated manufacturing to Milwaukee from China; and Lincolnton Furniture, a specialty manufacturer, which set up shop in North Carolina after its owner, Bruce Cochran, closed a family-owned furniture company in 1996 and spent time consulting with companies about moving operations to China and Vietnam.
''I don't want America to be a nation that's primarily known for financial speculation, and racking up debt and buying stuff from other nations,'' the president said. ''I want us to be known for making and selling products all over the world stamped with three proud words, 'Made in America.' ''
Mr. Obama's message served as a riposte to the Republican front-runner, Mitt Romney, who repeated his charge Tuesday, in his speech after the New Hampshire primary, that the president was hostile to free enterprise.
One of the executives at the meeting, James M. Guyette of Rolls-Royce North America, said his company was making investments in Indiana, where it builds aircraft engines, and in Virginia, where it opened an advanced manufacturing and research campus last year that will eventually employ 500 people.
In an interview, Mr. Guyette said Rolls-Royce was not actually moving operations back to the United States. But he said it was pouring money into American operations, like a factory in Indianapolis that once had the company's highest labor costs and lowest productivity. Negotiations with the United Automobile Workers union had cut those costs, he said, and made the factory competitive again. ''Everyone could see where this road was going to end, if we didn't do it differently,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TRENDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (52%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%); PANAMA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



512 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
MEXICO UPDATES DEATH TOLL
IN THE WAR AGAINST DRUGS
The Mexican government updated its drug war death toll, reporting that 47,515 people had been killed in drug-related violence since President Felipe Calderon began a military assault on criminal cartels in late 2006. Page A4 
ITALY'S MESSAGE TO EUROPE
Italy's technocratic prime minister arrived in Germany and said that austerity alone was not the answer to Europe's sovereign debt crisis, and that the situation in Italy could worsen without more assistance from Europe. Page A10
National
AFTER FLOODS IN MISSOURI,
SIGNS OF REBIRTH SPROUT
During last year's floods along the Mississippi River, the Army Corps of Engineers blasted away three stretches of levee in southeastern Missouri, saturating thousands of acres of farmland. Now, signs of recovery are increasing, but controversy persists. Page A15
UNIVERSITY SUSPECTS FRAUD
A charge of widespread scientific fraud, involving 26 articles published in 11 journals, was leveled by the University of Connecticut against one of its researchers, whose work reported health benefits in red wine. Page A15
New York
USE OF PAINKILLER JUMPS
IN NEW YORK, REPORT SAYS
A new report shows that prescriptions for oxycodone, a narcotic painkiller, rose by 82 percent from 2007 to 2010 in New York. Page A22
SUPPORT FOR ARMORY PLAN
Two years after Bronx leaders helped defeat a plan to develop the Kingsbridge Armory into a retail mall, they are supporting a revised push by the Bloomberg administration. Page A23
Obituaries
JAN GROOVER, 68
Her relentlessly formal still lifes of mundane objects brought a sense of Renaissance stateliness to postmodern photography. Page B10
Business
NEW PROTECTIVE RULES
IN MF GLOBAL AFTERMATH
Wall Street investors will receive new protections under a plan adopted by federal regulators, an overhaul that comes in the wake of the collapse of MF Global. Page B1
RACING TO ADD TECH TO CARS
For every potential distraction carmakers add, they find themselves having to build in ways to prevent drivers from crashing their smartphone on wheels. Page B1
Sports
GLEN SATHER'S APPROACH
HAS THE RANGERS THRIVING
The Ranger's General manager, Glen Sather, has turned the franchise into a first-place team with strong drafts and player development. Page B11
SNOWBOARDER IS HURT BADLY
The Canadian freestyle skier Sarah Burke, a four-time X Games champion and 2014 Olympic favorite, was seriously injured in the 22-foot halfpipe in Park City, Utah. Page B14
Arts
CAMEOS ARE STRONG
IN RICK ROSS MIXTAPE
Give Rick Ross credit, he hears the best in other rappers, and sometimes pilfers it for himself, writes Jon Caramanica. His new mixtape, ''Rich Forever,'' features cameos by numerous artists, including Nas, Drake, Styles P, Pharrell and Diddy. Page C1
Home
FAMILY PRESERVES PETS
WHILE WARMING THE HEART
The most wholesome reality show on television right now may be ''American Stuffers,'' an Animal Planet production that documents the growing pains of a family of taxidermists whose specialty is freeze-drying pets. Page D1
Style
FINDING A NEW LOVE
FOR DANCE IN ZUMBA
Not grabbed by other popular dances, Henry Alford turns to Zumba, the dance and fitness phenomenon that has been whipping some 12 million people into a lather for the last decade, like Wyclef Jean and the writer Susan Orlean. Page E1
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); SNOWBOARDING (84%); ARMIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RIVERS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%); ANALGESICS (66%); ATHLETES (66%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); SKIING (61%); WINTER OLYMPICS (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) ITALY (94%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



513 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Besieged Government

 BODY:
Pakistan's civilian governments are typically short-lived and cast aside by military coups. This disastrous pattern could be repeating itself as the current civilian government comes under increasing pressure from the army and the Supreme Court. 
On Wednesday, the standoff hardened when Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani fired his defense secretary, Naeem Khalid Lodhi -- a retired general and confidante of the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani -- and replaced him with a civilian, Nargis Sethi. Infuriated military officials said they might refuse to work with the new secretary and warned vaguely of ''serious ramifications with potentially grievous consequences'' after Mr. Gilani publicly criticized them in an interview.
This sort of byzantine infighting is hardly uncommon in Pakistan. But a stable Pakistan is critical to America's interests in the region. The army should focus on what it can do best: fight the militants working to bring down the state and destabilize the region. For its part, the civilian government needs to deal with Pakistan's severe economic troubles and repair a political culture in which voices of moderation are increasingly snuffed out.
Tensions have built steadily ever since Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's former ambassador to Washington, was accused in October of drafting an anonymous memo that purportedly warned of a coup and sought Washington's help in preventing it.
Mr. Haqqani is now under a Supreme Court investigation instigated by the country's top generals. Mr. Haqqani denies writing the memo but has never made secret his distaste for the iron rule of Pakistan's generals, who already felt humiliated by the surprise American raid on Osama bin Laden.
Mr. Haqqani's passport has been confiscated, and he has taken refuge in Mr. Gilani's home. The State Department has called for fair and transparent treatment of Mr. Haqqani in line with Pakistani and international law, and it must continue to press that point.
Two Pakistani officials and a journalist were assassinated last year -- evidence of the country's instability and a chilling warning to the few still brave enough to speak up for a tolerant and democratic society.
Pakistan's Supreme Court is causing further trouble for the prime minister, threatening to remove him from office for failing to comply with court orders to reopen long-ago corruption cases against President Asif Ali Zardari, himself a fierce adversary of the military. According to a report in The Times, many Pakistani officials suspect the military is using the judiciary to weaken -- even topple -- the government before the March election for the Senate, which Mr. Zardari's party is expected to win.
No civilian government in Pakistan has ever finished its term. This one has survived longer than the others and is up for re-election by 2013. Every effort must be made to have that vote go forward so another -- and, one hopes, more competent -- civilian government can succeed it. The court needs to stay out of politics and focus on building a fair, unbiased legal system. Likewise the military. The generals say they don't want to govern, but no civilian will ever be able to do a competent job if the military keeps pulling the strings. Although relations with Pakistan are at an all-time low, the United States should keep engaging the country's civilian leaders and encouraging its civil society whenever possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); JOURNALISM (66%); WRITERS (64%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



514 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Economic Woes Loom Larger as G.O.P. Candidates Head South

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
NORTH, S.C. -- The grim just gets grimmer here at the Edisto Grocery, where all day long people with not enough work come to eat $2.25 fried bologna sandwiches, pick up some horse feed and complain about the price of diesel.
''Jobs are all I hear about every day. Where are the jobs?'' said Pete Bradley, who owns the small store and gas station here in Orangeburg County, where unemployment is 15.6 percent and the median income is $32,699.
After stops in Iowa and New Hampshire, states that are doing relatively well economically, the Republican presidential race is coming for the first time to a state that is struggling mightily through the downturn and, like much of the country, has distinct pockets of poverty and prosperity.
Just a 45-minute drive from the Edisto Grocery toward the capital city of Columbia, South Carolina looks quite different. Here, in Lexington County where Gov. Nikki Haley lives, unemployment is 7 percent and the median income is $51,523. New companies, lured to South Carolina by generous tax incentives and the state's right-to-work policies, are hailed as heroes. 
Amazon's sprawling new distribution center could net as many as 2,000 jobs. The Nephron Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a maker of respiratory medicine, will break ground in the same industrial park this month and bring about 700 jobs. Continental Tire plans to invest $500 million to build a plant in nearby Sumter County.
Building on those potential new jobs, Ms. Haley delivered a message of promised prosperity last week as she traveled to the wealthy coastal communities of Charleston and Myrtle Beach with the presidential hopeful Mitt Romney, trying to give him an edge in the Jan. 21 Republican primary.
Mr. Romney hopes that message will secure South Carolina and, with it, the nomination. For the last 32 years, whoever has won in South Carolina has become the Republican candidate for president.
As it does in much of the rest of the country, the economic gap looms large in this state. Since 2007, South Carolina has lost 78,000 jobs, many of them in construction. The question is whether economics will overshadow the reliable platform of smaller government and deep social conservatism important especially to poor and middle-class white Republican voters in South Carolina.
Although it is a relatively small state -- it ranks 24th in population and 40th in size -- South Carolina is a place of stark contrasts between the haves and the have nots, and one in which the political landscape can be brutal and difficult to anticipate.
Three bands of wealth run across the state. Fiscally conservative but less socially conservative retirees populate the coast. To the northwest, along the Interstate 85 corridor toward Charlotte, N.C., Spartanburg's BMW plant and other manufacturers offer solid jobs for a region with deeply felt conservative views on social issues and Christian institutions like Bob Jones University.
In the center of the state sits the capital, Columbia, where a recent burst of new business and a state government dominated by a Republican majority and a governor who rode to office on a wave of Tea Party support help define the political playing field.
The Republican primary will probably be a study in the balance between social conservatism and the economy, many here believe. And although issues of black-white relations remain an undercurrent in the state where the Civil War began, courting black voters is not much of a factor for Republicans.
''Blacks, whether they are rich or poor or middle class, largely vote Democrat,'' said Scott Buchanan, executive director of the Citadel Symposium on Southern Politics. ''Poor whites tend to vote Republican.''
Pamela Barksdale, an African-American and an unemployed former BMW worker who lives in a part of northeast South Carolina that was devastated by the collapse of the textile industry, said neither she nor any other black person she knew would ever vote for a Republican.
''Do you think I want to choke myself to death?'' she said.
In South Carolina, Mr. Buchanan said, the Republicans are the party of conservative social issues and limited taxes.
As a result, many Republican candidates here are trying to position themselves as the true social conservative while being mindful of the importance of promising economic recovery.
Mr. Romney, perhaps more than any other candidate, is pushing the economy as a campaign theme. Ms. Haley is his echo chamber. Certainly, she said in an interview by phone while on the road with Mr. Romney in New Hampshire, Republican voters in South Carolina want a candidate who believes marriage should be only between a man and a woman and abortion should be outlawed.
But, she said, the state is not as narrow as people think.
''This is the South Carolina that elected a 38-year-old Indian female,'' she said. ''The No. 1 focus is jobs, spending and the economy.''
How much Ms. Haley's support for Mr. Romney factors into the race will be closely watched. Although some here applaud her nearly singular focus on sharply reducing government spending and lowering the state's unemployment rate, which now sits at 9.9 percent, she is not broadly popular.
A December poll by Winthrop University showed only a 35 percent approval rating among all registered voters, lower than that of President Obama, who had a 45 percent rating. Among Republicans, her approval rating was 53 percent.
The state may also be, in the coming years, something of a national study on the effects of deep cuts in government spending for education and social programs.
''We've all seen our state budgets erode unmercifully,'' said Jeffery S. Allen, interim director of the Strom Thurmond Institute of Government and Public Affairs, which is based at Clemson University. ''Lots and lots of people desperately need the help of government to survive. The big question we're looking at for the future of the state is: are things sustainable at the level to which they have been cut?''
That will probably be writ large in towns like Laurens, where the economy has been devastated first by the collapse of the textile industry and then by the recession. Conversations about the presidential election do not engage people as much as the price of a state lottery ticket, which will double to $2 on Sunday.
Farther south, in Orangeburg County, the outcome of the Republican primary does not seem to matter much, either. It is a hand-to-mouth existence for many, with little hope that a new president would change their lives.
''People are too tired to care,'' said Tina Sullivan, 47, who manages three bars in Orangeburg. ''If they have any money, they'll come spend it drinking because they are so depressed.''
Randy Shumpert, who makes a living drilling water wells in nearby Neeses, wants a true social conservative in office. And he also wants more work. But he does not see anyone who appeals to him.
''I plan to vote, but it's just terrible what we have to vote for,'' he said.
To Mr. Shumpert and others at the Edisto Grocery, including one Democrat who happened to wander in and joked that he was the only one in the county who was not black or a woman, no one feels a part of the national race that is descending on the state.
''These people don't care about us,'' Mr. Shumpert said. ''We're the little people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sissa Green, left, and Belinda Roberts, both of Charleston, S.C., waited last Thursday for the beginning of a campaign event for Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Rhoetta and Pete Bradley at their store in North, S.C. Unemployment in the county is 15.6 percent. He asks, ''Where are the jobs?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MCMILLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina has been traveling in the state with Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOGAN MOCK-BUNTING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) GRAPHICS: The Outlook in South Carolina: Mitt Romney shows a substantial lead in polls and has traveled with Gov. Nikki Haley to wealthy coastal communities to spread a message of pending prosperity
MAPS: But political analysts say Mr. Romney may not be a strong candidate in certain parts of the state, where the economic gap looms large. The unemployment rate in the state ranges from 7 percent to 17.3 percent.
To win, Mr. Romney must capture the votes of poor whites, who tend to be more conservative. Though blacks make up 28 percent of the state's population, they tend to vote Democratic, regardless of wealth. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
socialexplorer.com
 Employers Association of South Carolina) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GAS STATIONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NIKKI HALEY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



515 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: 2 Securities Heads Are the Latest in a String of Departures From Goldman

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG; Peter Lattman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. Updated
Goldman Sachs, which is going through a post-financial crisis transition that has crimped its earnings power, is losing two more high-level executives.
The longtime partners Edward K. Eisler and David B. Heller, who both lead Goldman's influential securities division, are leaving the bank, according to an internal memo sent to staff members on Wednesday.
The departures turned heads on Wall Street because it was unusual for two divisional heads to retire on the same day. And they are leaving just weeks after another senior executive, Edward C. Forst, a head of asset management and member of Goldman's management committee, left the firm. Since October, more than 30 partners have left Goldman.
The firm itself is at something of a crossroads. Goldman made it through the financial crisis and returned to profitability faster than many banks. In 2009, it logged a record annual profit of $13.39 billion. 
Since then, however, its earnings power has been eroded by a hesitant recovery in the United States, debt worries in Europe and new regulations that have eaten into profits.
In the third quarter of 2011, Goldman lost $428 million, only the second quarterly loss for Goldman since it went public in 1999. Over the last year or so it laid off employees and cut back bonuses and noncompensation expenses.
Goldman is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 18, and analysts have low expectations for the results. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial are predicting a profit of just $1.33 a share, compared with $3.79 a share in the quarter a year ago.
The recent wave of executive departures is also notable because it is coming toward the end, not the beginning, of the tenure of the firm's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein.
As chief executive and chairman since 2006, Mr. Blankfein has seen the firm through some of its best and darkest days. In 2007, the firm made $11.6 billion and Mr. Blankfein took home about $67 million for his efforts. It was a record payday for a Wall Street chief executive.
But by then the credit crisis was at his door and since then the company's fortunes, in both profit and public relations, have sagged.
In 2010, Goldman was accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of duping clients by selling mortgage securities that were secretly structured by a hedge fund firm to cash in on the housing market's collapse. The day the agency's lawsuit was filed, Mr. Blankfein has said, was ''one of the worst days in my professional life.'' The firm paid $550 million to settle the accusations. It did not admit or deny wrongdoing.
In the years since the credit crisis, Goldman has become a symbol of excess and has been criticized by politicians and protesters alike. The spotlight has dragged down morale inside Goldman and has weighed on a number of the partners who have recently left, according to people who have spoken to them but are not authorized to speak on the record.
Goldman has about 450 partners. It can take years to make it into this inner circle, and all the firm's senior executives are partners, as are most of the bank's senior producers.
Being a partner at Goldman has long been considered the pinnacle of success on Wall Street, but in recent years, because of the difficult market environment, partner compensation has fallen and many partners are weary of all the negative press attention. Goldman's partners own 12.79 percent of the firm, according to Footnoted.com, a division of Morningstar that scrutinizes public filings.
Some partners wanted to leave Goldman during the financial crisis but felt uncomfortable doing so, resulting in a rush of willing retirements now.
Both Mr. Heller and Mr. Eisler are old hands at Goldman. Mr. Heller was a partner at the firm when it went public in 1999 and Mr. Eisler was made a partner in 2000. Both already have plans beyond Goldman, and are interested in another job in finance, be it investing their own money or starting a hedge fund, according to a person briefed on their plans but not authorized to speak on the record.
The securities division they ran will now have three heads. Pablo Salame and Harvey Schwartz, who were co-heads with the departing partners, will continue in their current jobs. Isabelle Ealet, based in London, will become the third head.
Ms. Ealet is often named as a woman in finance to watch. Gary Cohn, the firm's president, said in a memo to staff members on Wednesday that Ms. Ealet joined Goldman Sachs in 1991 as an oil trader and was named managing director in 1997 and partner in 2000. Mr. Cohn said she would continue to be based in London.
Peter Lattman contributed reporting.
Here are the Goldman Sachs memos on the changes:
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Lloyd C. Blankfein Gary D. Cohn
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Lloyd C. Blankfein Gary D. Cohn
PUB-DATE: January 11, 2012
Lloyd C. Blankfein Gary D. Cohn
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); LITIGATION (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



516 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says N.H. Results Show Attacks on Him Failed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Rock Hill, S.C.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- A triumphant Mitt Romney prepared to enter the crucible of South Carolina politics on Wednesday with a warning to his Republican rivals already waiting for him there: your attacks on me have failed.
In several television appearances after his drubbing of the Republican field in New Hampshire on Tuesday night, Mr. Romney assailed the angry attacks about his work for Bain Capital and urged his opponents to settle on a ''new course'' for their campaigns as they move south.
''I think their argument fell flat here in New Hampshire,'' Mr. Romney said of his rivals, Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry, on ABC's ''Good Morning America.'' He added on ''Fox and Friends'' that ''the evidence from New Hampshire last night, where both the speaker and Rick Perry were both in single digits, suggest this kind of attack on free enterprise is simply not gaining traction.'' 
But on Wednesday, Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, did not let up on Mr. Romney's record at Bain Capital. Speaking to reporters Wednesday morning, he broadened his controversial assault on the source of Mr. Romney's personal fortune, linking the kind of corporate takeover deals Mr. Romney specialized in to the 2008 financial crisis which brought misery to people on Main Street.
''We have a right to know what happened at Goldman Sachs, what happened with trillions of dollars in New York,'' he said. ''We have a right to know what happened when companies go bankrupt,'' a reference to deals in which Mr. Romney's private equity firm, Bain Capital, cut workers and extracted profits from factories and retailers that later failed.
In a speech in Rock Hill, S.C., Mr. Gingrich also issued a veiled warning of his own for Mr. Romney and conservative leaders who have criticized Mr. Gingrich's oratory as attacks on free enterprise.
''There is enormous pressure in the establishment not to bring up things. Don't talk about who got all the money. Don't raise the question,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''I am prepared to stand up to every level of pressure.''
During a plane ride to South Carolina Wednesday, Mr. Romney said he was ''a little surprised to see Newt Gingrich as the first witness for the prosecution, but I don't think that's going to hurt my efforts.''
He added, ''Frankly, if I can't take a few shots coming from my colleagues on the Republican side, I'm not ready for Barack Obama.''Also waiting for Mr. Romney in South Carolina are millions of dollars' worth of attack ads financed by a ''super PAC'' supporting Mr. Gingrich's campaign. The group, Winning our Future, has said it will spend $3.4 million to distribute parts of a documentary that rips into Mr. Romney's work at Bain.
But Mr. Romney's campaign moved quickly on Wednesday to trumpet his ability to respond to such attacks. His campaign announced that he raised $24 million in the last quarter of 2011, and that it had $19 million in available cash to help define himself positively with voters and to push back against attacks.
This brings the campaign's total 2011 haul to $56 million. Earlier this year, the Romney campaign had said it hoped to raise $50 million for the primary campaign.
The money will provide Mr. Romney a significant advantage over his Republican rivals as the campaign moves later this month into states like Florida, which has some of the most expensive television advertising markets in the country.
Allies of Mr. Obama watched the intraparty feuding with glee and predicted that the attacks on Mr. Romney's business experience would have lasting damage if he becomes the Republican nominee.
One senior Democratic strategist said Mr. Romney's claim that the Bain attacks had failed were either ''baloney or wishful thinking.'' The strategist, who asked for anonymity to discuss the president's re-election plans, said that Democrats would renew the attacks later this year.
''This isn't a primary attack in the first place'' the strategist said of the Bain attacks. ''It's why we haven't put any resources behind Romney as a corporate buyout specialist at this stage -- it's a general-election issue for independent and swing voters.''
The Democratic strategist said allies of Mr. Obama were ''shocked that his rivals went there but nonetheless pleased,'' and said that future Democratic attacks now have ''the luster of bipartisanship'' because of the Republican use of them.
''If Mitt Romney thinks swing voters won't recoil at what he did to AMPAD or GS Technologies -- raiding pensions, firing workers, bankrupting companies while reaping millions in profits -- he's more out of touch than anyone could have imagined,'' the Democrat said.
The Republican presidential campaign did not take a breather Wednesday. Candidates hit the trail in South Carolina first thing in the morning and were making stops across the state all day long as they kick off the 10-day campaign there.
Mr. Perry, who skipped campaigning in New Hampshire to focus on South Carolina, planned four events on Wednesday. In an appearance on CNN, he asserted that if he won in the Southern state it would ''wipe out'' Mr. Romney's victories in Iowa and New Hampshire.
''If Mitt's thinking he's got it in the bag, he's in for a surprise,'' Mr. Perry warned.
Mr. Perry's campaign also released a new, 60-second television commercial that will begin running in South Carolina. The positive ad includes testimonials from military veterans about Mr. Perry, who served in the Air Force, and images of churches designed to appeal to the state's religious voters.
''I'm the outsider who's willing to step on some toes,'' Mr. Perry says in the ad. ''We can surely recapture what is great about America.''
In his appearance Wednesday morning, Mr. Gingrich said that the country needed entirely new leadership in Washington.
''You have a bipartisan establishment that has been running this country that has created a giant mess,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''We want to change not just Obama. We have to change the entire direction of the United States of America.''
Mr. Gingrich said that if he became the Republican Party nominee he would follow Mr. Obama everywhere he goes within four hours so that he could respond effectively.
''He ain't going to be able to run. He ain't going to be able to hide,'' Mr. Gingrich said to enthusiastic applause from the large crowd.
Mr. Gingrich said that he believed he was the ''only conservative who can actually carry a record of achievement into that debate'' against Mr. Obama. He said Republicans cannot afford to nominate someone who is ''inarticulate, moderate or has no record of achievement.''
And in an earlier interview with MSNBC's Chuck Todd on ''The Daily Rundown,'' Mr. Gingrich conceded that South Carolina may be the last opportunity for Mr. Romney's rivals to prevent him from becoming the party's nominee.
''If Romney can win South Carolina, he's probably going to be the nominee,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''He has so much money. If he also has the momentum, it's going to be very hard to stop him.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the branch of the military in which Gov. Rick Perry of Texas served. It was the Air Force, not the Army.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); TAKEOVERS (70%); WITNESSES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RICK PERRY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



517 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Race Moves to Weaker Economies

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Now comes the economic-bust phase of the Republican primaries.
Iowa and New Hampshire, the first two states to hold nominating contests, are both among six states with the lowest unemployment rates in the nation. Their economic strength benefited Mitt Romney, who has performed much better with affluent, white-collar voters than with those who are struggling, according to exit polls. 
Starting Wednesday, the campaign moves to three states - South Carolina, Florida and Nevada - that have among the country's 10 highest unemployment rates. Nevada and Florida have been centers of the housing bust. South Carolina's coastal areas also suffered from the housing bust, and its inland areas hemorrhaged manufacturing jobs from 2000 to 2009.
http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2012/01/11/blogs/caucus-economies-web-graphic/caucus-economies-web-graphic-blog480.jpg
Mr. Romney, who has won two consecutive victories and has more money and endorsements than his rivals, remains a strong front-runner for the Republican nomination. But his relative weakness among the voters who will dominate the coming primaries will make the next few days intriguing.
If all of his rivals remain in the race and outside conservative leaders - like those gathering at a major evangelical meeting this weekend - fail to agree on their best alternative, Mr. Romney will have a better chance of winning South Carolina with much less than 50 percent of the vote. In that case, he could wrap up the nomination very quickly.
If one or more rivals drop out or a single obvious alternative begins to emerge, the blue collar vote could coalesce, which would make Mr. Romney's task trickier and could at least extend the nomination race.
The dynamic was similar in Iowa and New Hampshire - though considerably friendlier to Mr. Romney. According to exit polls, Mr. Romney won 47 percent of New Hampshire voters who live in households with at least $100,000 in income, more than twice the share of any other candidate. He won 31 percent of those in households with less than $50,000 in income, tied with Ron Paul.
In New Hampshire - which had the nation's highest median household income in 2010, thanks partly to a well-educated population and a large health care sector - those $100,000-and-up households made up more than one third of the electorate. In South Carolina, which had the eighth-lowest household income, they will make up a considerably smaller share.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Unemployment rate: Nov. 2010
Median household income: 2010
How each income group voted in New Hampshire (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Edison Research
 U.S. Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RELIGION (50%); HEALTH CARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



518 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Suggests That It Is Open to More Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea indicated on Wednesday that it was open to further negotiations with the United States, which it said demanded a halt of its uranium-enrichment program in return for food aid before the death of Kim Jong-il last month. 
The day began inauspiciously as North Korea accused the United States of ''politicizing'' food aid, saying American negotiators had offered to ship humanitarian aid and temporarily lift economic sanctions if the North halted its uranium enrichment program.
But a spokesman of the North's Foreign Ministry struck a more conciliatory chord, saying, ''We will wait and see if the United States has a willingness to establish confidence,'' the official Korean Central News Agency reported.
Negotiators took that as a sign that the government might be willing to engage Washington in talks under Mr. Kim's son and successor, Kim Jong-un, even though it vowed not to negotiate with South Korea and even threatened to attack it.
Kim Jong-il's death left the world wondering where nuclear-armed North Korea, in the midst of a food crisis, would be headed under Kim Jong-un, who is consolidating his power as supreme commander of the North Korean People's Army.
The military's support is crucial to fending off any potential challenge to the authority of the new leader, believed to be in his late 20s. But the military is also said to be the institution that is most resistant to the idea of trading all or part of the North's nuclear weapons program for foreign aid.
This year, North Korea planned to celebrate the centenary of the birth of the North's founding president, Kim Il-sung, by increasing growth and distributing more food to its hungry people. The ability of the government to manage that was seen as a crucial test of leadership for Kim Jong-il before his death, and now for his son.
Negotiators from the United States and North Korea met in Beijing only days before Mr. Kim's death on Dec. 17. Afterward, American officials continued the discussions with North Korean diplomats at the United Nations in New York.
The North Korean spokesman said both sides began discussions early last year on completing a 2008 American promise to ship 500,000 tons of grain to North Korea. That program was halted in 2009, after 170,000 tons had been distributed, as North Korea and the United States squabbled over both the transparency of distribution and the North's nuclear weapons program.
North Korea wanted the remaining 330,000 tons of grains delivered. But it lost faith in the sincerity of the United States after Washington offered to ship a smaller amount of aid and items other than grain, the spokesman said.
The Americans offered nutritional supplements for children, rather than grain, in an effort to ensure that the aid reached the most vulnerable and would not be diverted to the North's military. Officials from the United Nations have warned that North Korean children are acutely malnourished.
North Korea said Wednesday that the United States began ''politicizing'' the issue in a bilateral meeting in July by linking its aid to a longstanding political demand that the North stop its nuclear activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (77%); ARMIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NUTRITION (62%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (92%); KIM JONG UN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



519 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: With Recent Criticism, Romney's Rivals Bring a Smile to the White House

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For months David Axelrod, President Obama's senior strategist, has argued with evident anticipation that Mitt Romney offers a glass jaw when he boasts that his business record sets him apart as a presidential candidate. Now Mr. Romney's Republican rivals have beaten the Obama team to the punch, and Democrats could hardly be more pleased.
''It's a total win-win,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster who works with a group supporting Mr. Obama. ''Either Romney will be the nominee or one of those other, even more unelectable candidates will be.'' 
The Republican sniping this week -- with rivals lumping Mr. Romney, a former private equity executive, with corporate raiders and even ''vultures'' -- highlights the tension within a party that has historically backed business and eschewed class-based political attacks. The economy has delivered scant gains for many middle-class and blue-collar workers over the past decade, and the Republican base now includes large numbers of these workers.
Even before the Tea Party movement arose three years ago after the big bank bailouts, the Republican base had grown more populist, heightening old tensions between Main Street and Wall Street Republicans. The Romney rivals are playing to the ascendant anti-Wall Street grass roots.
Mr. Romney counters that the attackers are assailing capitalism itself. Appearing on Fox News Wednesday, he said his victory in New Hampshire's Republican primary proved ''this kind of attack on free enterprise is not gaining traction for them.'' But his competitors persisted as the nomination fight moved to South Carolina for its Jan. 21 primary.
The danger for Mr. Romney is that Republicans have given their imprimatur to criticisms that undercut his chief argument for his election -- his business experience -- and by extension another, that he is the most electable against Mr. Obama.
While a few Democrats fret that the Republicans' clash could inoculate Mr. Romney against the very attacks they planned if he becomes the nominee, most are enjoying the show. Since Sunday his rivals have pummeled Mr. Romney as a cutthroat capitalist who profited with his private-equity partners at Bain Capital from snatching, stripping and selling companies, costing rather than creating jobs.
Democratic operatives say Republicans' words are certain to be heard again in advertisements this fall if, as many expect, Mr. Romney is the nominee.
''We'll be able to show what his rivals said about him and what workers have said about him,'' said Brad Woodhouse, communications director for the Democratic National Committee. ''The fact that his own Republican rivals -- from a party that talks about itself as being for the free market -- are offended about his practices in the private sector makes our case a lot easier.''
Mr. Romney's own words have stoked the rivals' fires, giving Democrats more grist. Republicans mocked him for telling New Hampshire voters that he, too, has feared ''pink slips,'' calling the claim implausible for the Harvard-educated son of a multimillionaire governor. And they pounced on his statement, captured on videotape, that ''I like being able to fire people,'' though they took it out of context since he was complaining about companies that do not provide good service, specifically insurance companies.
The sudden intraparty assault has helped Mr. Romney in one way, prompting even conservative skeptics like Rush Limbaugh to come to his defense. The conservative Club for Growth singled out Newt Gingrich for ''economically ignorant class warfare rhetoric'' that is ''downright Obamaesque.''
Mr. Gingrich persisted in South Carolina on Wednesday. ''I am for entrepreneurship,'' he said, ''but I am also for the American people's right to understand how the games are being played: Are they fair to the American people, or are the deals being cut on behalf of Wall Street institutions and very rich people?''
A ''super PAC'' supporting Mr. Gingrich plans ads depicting Mr. Romney as a corporate raider ''more ruthless than Wall Street.'' Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, making his last stand in South Carolina, again on Wednesday cited job losses at a local plant that Bain shut down.
''I understand the difference between venture capital and vulture capitalism,'' he said.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah, and Representative Ron Paul have also piled on. Only former Senator Rick Santorum has not. ''I just don't think as a conservative and someone who believes in business that we should be out there playing the games that the Democrats play, saying somehow capitalism is bad,'' he said on Fox Tuesday.
The controversy is encouraging to Democrats as they weigh Mr. Obama's re-election prospects in a year when the weak economy is the main issue. It can only help, their thinking goes, if the most likely Republican nominee emerges from the race as a representative of -- in Mr. Axelrod's words -- ''everything that people hate about this economy.''
''I guess the only downside is that Mitt Romney might not be the nominee,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
One Democratic dissenter, who would not speak for the record, agreed with Vin Weber, a Republican strategist and former congressman, who said, ''The only downside for the Democrats is that it brings Romney's greatest vulnerability into the open and gives him time to prepare a defense before facing Obama.''
Mr. Axelrod called that reasoning ''the immunization theory,'' and said: ''I don't buy it. Rather than immunizing him, this will likely just open the floodgates.''
Mr. Romney has already felt the potency of the attack. In 1994, he led in polls in his bid to unseat Senator Edward M. Kennedy when Tad Devine, a Kennedy strategist, traveled to Indiana to make advertisements featuring workers at a company that had been taken over by a Bain subsidiary, which slashed the work force and benefits.
''We put this stuff on television and it began to resonate,'' Mr. Devine recalled. Then some Indianans went to Massachusetts to campaign against Mr. Romney, generating more media attention. Mr. Kennedy won by 17 points.
Obama strategists have copies of the Kennedy-Romney race materials on the shelf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); BAILOUTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); BANK FAILURES (51%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



520 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: A Blurring of the Lines in the Populist vs. Capitalist Debate

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- In the sour, fearful mood that economic setbacks have produced, American voters loathe both major symbols of the forces squeezing their pocketbooks and life savings.
President Obama will seek re-election vowing to rein in one of them: Wall Street. Mitt Romney will focus on the other: Washington.
Mr. Romney made that clear Tuesday night in a forceful speech claiming victory in the New Hampshire primary. Before racing to South Carolina to continue battling his Republican rivals, his remarks outlined competing visions of opportunity, fairness and blame that could polarize the 2012 election. ''The president puts his faith in government,'' he said. ''We put our faith in the American people.''
In some ways, that's familiar partisan boilerplate; ''trust the people'' was a signature phrase of Bob Dole's unsuccessful challenge to President Bill Clinton in 1996. But the tumultuous events of the last four years have lent new resonance to the debate, even as the evolving Republican and Democratic coalitions have made it more complex. 
On the Democratic side of that debate, President Obama last month blamed ''you're-on-your-own economics'' for allowing corporations to seek cheaper workers overseas, hold down wages at home, exploit consumers and fuel income inequality by lavishing compensation on top executives.
He called for a 21st-century version of Theodore Roosevelt's progressive movement that would raise taxes on the wealthy to finance job-creating improvements in infrastructure, education and scientific research. Mr. Obama's view draws strength from voters' antipathy toward a Wall Street culture that prospered while Main Street struggled -- and then received a taxpayer bailout.
Tuesday night was Mr. Romney's rejoinder. ''The middle class has been crushed,'' he declared. But drawing on controversies over economic stimulus, bailouts and health legislation, he identified a dramatically different set of villains.
Mr. Romney blamed a ''bigger, more burdensome and bloated'' government that racked up debt and damaged the nation's credit rating. He attacked ''job-killing regulations,'' ''ever-increasing government checks and cradle-to-grave assurances that government will always be the solution.''
''President Obama wants to put free enterprise on trial,'' he said. ''I will offer the American ideals of economic freedom a clear and unapologetic defense.''
That contrast recalls fights from earlier generations pitting business-friendly Republicans against populist Democrats. But shifts in the political landscape have blurred some of those lines, potentially complicating the general election and Mr. Romney's upcoming primary battles in South Carolina and Florida.
Democrats have made inroads in recent elections among affluent, well-educated voters. Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign captured the majority of voters earning more than $200,000 and raised more than $90 million from the securities, finance, hedge fund and banking industries.
Republicans have bolstered their support among the sorts of middle and working-class voters who call themselves conservative Christians and identify with the Tea Party. And in 2008 Senator John McCain got more votes among whites earning less than $50,000 than Mr. Obama.
That's why Mr. Romney's approach might pose a risk. A Pew Research Center survey identified financially-squeezed ''disaffected'' voters as a Republican-leaning constituency; just 21 percent of them agreed that ''most corporations make a fair and reasonable profit.''
Those are precisely the sorts of voters that Mr. Romney's rivals are appealing to in South Carolina's Jan. 21 primary by attacking his career at Bain Capital. Newt Gingrich accused Mr. Romney of having ''looted'' companies that Bain acquired at workers' expense; Gov. Rick Perry of Texas likened Bain to ''vultures.''
Mr. Obama's political team has offered overlapping attacks -- with much more to come in the fall. And that's why some conservatives see danger in Mr. Romney's complaint on Tuesday night that Mr. Obama practices a ''bitter politics of envy'' marked by ''resentment of success.''
''Careful, Mitt,'' tweeted the conservative writer Ramesh Ponnuru during Mr. Romney's speech. ''Don't want to insinuate that people only oppose you because they resent your success.''
Mr. Romney has reached out to such working-class Republicans by promising a crackdown on China's trade practices and a tough stance against illegal immigration. He didn't mention either in Tuesday night's speech. But he did offer a cultural appeal reminiscent of the way another Republican patrician, George Bush, used symbols like the American flag to make patriotism a wedge issue in his 1988 presidential campaign.
''President Obama wants to fundamentally transform America,'' Mr. Romney said. ''We want to restore America to the founding principles that made this country great. He wants to turn America into a European-style social welfare state. We want to ensure that we remain a free and prosperous land of opportunity.
''This president takes his inspiration from the capitals of Europe; we look to the cities and small towns of America.''
Democrats consider that formulation a device to suggest that Mr. Obama is somehow less than fully American.
Framing Mr. Obama's goal as an ''entitlement society'' capitalizes on the sense of grievance among many middle-income voters that government takes their money in taxes to distribute it to others who don't deserve it.
''There's a bias against welfare for the poor,'' said Michael Tanner of the Cato Institute. ''The middle class largely believes they earned their benefits.''
Dramatic oratory aside, Messrs. Romney and Obama are seeking ways to position themselves as reasonable centrists in a general election. Mr. Obama on Wednesday announced that he will offer new business tax breaks for companies that return jobs to the United States. Mr. Romney has defended Social Security against Mr. Perry's ideas for transforming it, and criticized Mr. Gingrich for suggesting a weakening of child labor laws.
As he straddled the divide between business and working-class Republicans in his speech on Tuesday night, Mr. Romney even echoed some of the unifying rhetoric that was Mr. Obama's earliest political hallmark.
''In these difficult times, we cannot abandon the core values that define us as unique,'' Mr. Romney said. ''We are one nation, under God.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A Political Memo article on Thursday about Mitt Romney's speech after his New Hampshire primary victory on Tuesday quoted incorrectly from one of his comments. Referring to President Obama, Mr. Romney said, ''He wants to turn America into a European-style social welfare state'' -- not ''a European-style entitlement society,'' which is how the statement was rendered in the text of the speech released by the Romney campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters and opponents of Mitt Romney outside a campaign appearance in Columbia, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012



521 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Somewhere In Europe

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The EU wakes up, but is it too late? 

 BODY:
The latest on Hungary from my Princeton colleague Kim Lane Scheppele, below the fold.
Somewhere in Europe 
Kim Lane Scheppele
Lights are flashing red about Hungary. 
Yesterday, the European Commission issued a stern warning to Hungary. In blunt language, the EU asserted that it "reserves the right to take any steps that it deems appropriate, namely the possibility of launching infringement procedures" against Hungary for violating the basic conditions of membership in the European Union. The Commission singled out the laws crushing the independence of the central bank, the judiciary and the ombudsman for data protection as the most egregious, but indicated that it was reviewing more laws as well. 
The US has also indicated its serious displeasure with the course that Hungary has taken. The Secretary of State wrote a strong letter to the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban just before the New Year and the US Ambassador to Hungary has pronounced herself to be "disappointed" with the government, so disappointed that she did not attend the gala celebration for the new constitution held at the magnificent Opera House on 2 January (with 30,000+ protestors demonstrating outside - see picture below). 
Demonstration outside the Opera House, January 2, 2012. Protestors objected to the new constitution, which was being celebrated at a gala inside.
 The markets have issued a judgment on Hungary as well. Last week, the forint reached an all-time low against the euro and Hungary was unable to sell short-term government bonds in the markets. Its 10-year bonds must promise a nearly 10% yield, unsustainable over the long haul. . After Europe showed yesterday that it was ready to pressure Hungary into complying with its demands, Hungary's short-term bonds must now promise nearly the same yield as its long-term bonds, but that is an improvement over not being able to generate any acceptable bids for short-term debt at all. . 
Hungary needs the EU, not just to keep providing the "cohesion funds" that constitute a little under 2% of its total GDP, but also to give the go-ahead to the IMF to provide the country with the it needs to avoid bankruptcy. US support is also crucial. And, as a country completely enmeshed in an international economy, Hungary needs the markets. 
Hungary's politics are killing its economy. But the Hungarian government insists that it is still a democratic country, somewhere in Europe. 
The government has started to say in international venues that it is open to modifying the offending laws. . And this has started to calm the nervousness of the markets. 
But, as usual, what Orban says in English to foreigners is contradicted by what he says and does in Hungarian and at home. Few who have watched at close range as he has built up his party organization over the last 20 years believe that a few European threats will cause him to give up his long-term aims to stay in power for "25 years" as he has repeatedly promised. He has often invoked as his model the interwar right-wing Prime Minister Miklos Horthy who governed from 1920-1944. He apparently wants to beat Horthy's record. 
Orban no doubt believes he has some wiggle room with the Europeans. Along with many observers, Orban could reasonably doubt that Europe has the will to require Hungary to roll back its all-encompassing anti-democratic program. Even if Hungary changes its laws on the central bank, judiciary and data ombudsman, most of the autocratic structure that Orban has built will remain in place. 
Will Europe really have the stomach to require not only a change in the law on the judiciary, but also the reinstatement of all of the judges who have been fired? And would it do so in the face of a letter from the Hungarian Judges Association written on January 7, saying that all is fine with the judiciary in Hungary if only people will stop attacking it? (Never mind that the letter appeared after the law went into effect, so that now a Fidesz loyalist may demote any judge in the country upon her say-so alone.) 
Will Europe require that Fidesz play nice with other political parties by including opposition members in crucial positions throughout the independent regulatory bodies? (Never mind that all of the opposition parties, including the Socialists [MSzp] are presently even more disliked than Fidesz and that the only party that has seen any uptick in its support of late has been the far-right Jobbik party.) 
Will Europe make Fidesz roll back its appointments to the Constitutional Court and restore the ability of citizens to challenge laws in the abstract before the Court? (Never mind that major decisions of the Constitutional Court interpreting the old constitution have already been effectively overturned by the new constitution. Most recently, this includes a constitutional amendment that allows the public prosecutor to choose which judge hears each specific criminal case.) 
Europe will have to do a lot more than demand small legal changes to reverse what has happened. The anti-democratic reforms have gone too far. This is a government that has passed nearly 400 major laws, changing virtually every aspect of government in Hungary. And all of those laws have all already gone into effect, so that Fidesz party control over all of Hungary's political institutions is very nearly complete already. Right now, the EU is singling out three laws for revision. There are many more laws where those came from. And given that FIdesz has already managed to entrench its most loyal inner-circle members in positions of power across the government, most with very long terms of office, it can afford to roll back a few laws without seriously losing control. So fine - change a few laws! 
Unfortunately, Europe does not have a lot of room for maneuver. Not only has FIdesz already consolidated its grip on the Hungarian political space, but there is not yet an effective opposition to engage Fidesz at home in restoring a democratic balance. Fidesz lives in a domestic environment in which the far-right Jobbik party has called for Hungary to withdraw from the EU. . Many of Orban's few remaining supporters no doubt think the same thing. If Europe pressures Hungary to make changes substantial enough to roll back what Orban's party has wrought, will Hungary even stay in the EU? Majorities of Hungarians no doubt want to remain European, but those aren't the Hungarians that hold this government in place. 
Is there an alternative for the majority of voters who say that they have no party for which they want to vote? Protests within the country are increasing, but so far they have no obvious political organization into which to channel their frustration. The only sign that a political organization may be forming to contest Fidesz domination is a manifesto from former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai that explains one way forward. But, as is typical for any critic, Bajnai is already being savaged by the government-controlled media. Even before he came forward with this program, Bajnai was operating on the knife-edge of threat as his personal finances have come under repeated Fidesz scrutiny - part of an aggressive campaign to discredit anyone who might challenge Viktor Orban. . Anyone who wades into the political space in Hungary can expect vilification in the media, false accusations and even not-so-veiled threats to any job or money they might have within the country. Hungarian politics is a bare-knuckled affair. 
Will the Fidesz government succeed in convincing Europe that Hungary is still a European democracy so that it will get away simply changing a few laws? More about the defenses the government has been offering in my next post.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); EURO (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



522 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. May Move to End N.F.L. Blackouts

BYLINE: RICHARD SANDOMIR


HIGHLIGHT: The commission is seeking public comment on eliminating its own rules that have effectively backstopped league policies by prohibiting cable and satellite operators from carrying a game already blacked out by local broadcast stations. 

 BODY:
The N.F.L.'s television blackout policy dictates that for a home game to be shown in the team's market, it must be sold out 72 hours before kickoff. Teams in danger of a suffering such a fate frequently scramble to sell the necessary seats.
For their season finale last month, the Cincinnati Bengals sold out a day before the deadline by giving fans one free ticket for each one they purchased. The Miami Dolphins avoided a blackout in September when the local CBS station, Anheuser-Busch and other sponsors bought tickets.
There were 16 blackouts in 2011, including six Bengals games and five Tampa Bay Buccaneers games.
On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission took a step that may lead to the elimination of all sports blackouts, of which the N.F.L.'s are the most notable. The commission said it was seeking public comment on eliminating its own rules that have effectively backstopped league policies by prohibiting cable and satellite operators from carrying a game already blacked out by local broadcast stations.
"We're asking the government to get out of the business of propping up sports blackouts," said Brian Frederick, executive director of the Sports Fans Coalition, which filed a petition in November to end the F.C.C.'s blackout rule with four other interest groups. "The F.C.C. has had the rule since the 1970s and has never taken a comprehensive look at it."
The league firmly believes in the policy nearly 40 years after it replaced one that required that all home games be blacked out within a 75-mile radius of the stadium. The language of the rule is clear; it is to ensure a team's "ability to sell all of its game tickets" and to "make televised games more attractive to viewers through the presence of sellout crowds."
A league spokesman said that the rule helped keep all of its games on free television.
Before Congress passed legislation that enacted the current policy, President Richard M. Nixon, a staunch fan who no doubt bristled at being unable to see Washington Redskins' home games in the Oval Office, supported a bill that would have eliminated blackouts altogether.
Over the decades, N.F.L. teams have become more successful in selling out their stadiums. From 1973, when the current rule went into effect, to 1979, half of all home games were blacked out. In the 1980s, that figure dropped to 40 percent. In the 1990s, 31 percent of games were blacked out in the home markets.
From 2001 to '10, the percentage of home games that were blacked out fell to 8 percent.
Frederick anticipates that the N.F.L. and other leagues will oppose the elimination of the F.C.C.'s rules by saying that blackouts are a financial necessity.
"That's fine if they want to make the case that they are economically dependent on these blackouts to stay in business, which is not the case," he said. "Anybody who looks at the sports business knows that their main source of revenue is television, not tickets."
The interest groups argued in their petition that the F.C.C's blackout rule "supports antifan, anticonsumer behavior by professional sports leagues."
They added: "The leagues are at the root of the problem because they currently charge exorbitant prices for tickets, which in turn results in lower attendance. The leagues then punish fans by blacking out games from television because a few seats remain unsold."

        
Have N.F.L. Questions? Judy Battista Has Answers
        
The Jets, the Colts, and More Jets: Judy Battista Answers Readers' Questions
        
Have N.F.L. Questions? Judy Battista Has Answers
        
N.F.L. Notables Who Died in 2011
        
N.F.L. 2011, From January to Tebowary and Beyond

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); PETITIONS (51%) Federal Communications Commission; N.F.L.; Football; National Football League

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (83%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (57%) Federal Communications Commission; National Football League

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



523 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Out There | Michael Wang's 'Carbon Copies'

BYLINE: KEVIN MCGARRY


HIGHLIGHT: In his latest solo project, Wang has hatched an oblique yet incisive commentary on the swirling intersections of the free market economy, the art world and the environment. 

 BODY:
There's no better time to hatch an oblique yet incisive commentary on the swirling intersections of the free market economy, the art world and the environment than the dawn of the year of the impending apocalypse. This is precisely what Foxy Production has mounted at its West 27th Street gallery to kick off 2012: "Carbon Copies," a solo project by the New York artist and architect Michael Wang.
In short, Wang has calculated the carbon footprints of 20 works of art by 20 iconic boom-era artists - from the materially grandiose (Damien Hirst, Matthew Barney, Takashi Murakami) to the relatively D.I.Y. (Gerhard Richter, Julie Mehretu, John Currin) - and fashioned cubes that both formally echo the original works and quantitatively represent their strain on the environment. The dimensions of each cube equal one five-millionth the cubic volume of carbon dioxide released into the earth's atmosphere by the corresponding original, and each one is for sale for the cost of offsetting its original's carbon footprint.
"Carbon Copies" will have a tenure in Chelsea of 10 light-as-air days (the show closes on Sunday), however a catalog will survive the gallery installation. The book contains textual descriptions of how Wang extrapolated the carbon footprints for each of the artworks, and photographs of each of his "carbon copies." From the modest .11 tons of carbon dioxide that must be repaid for Elizabeth Peyton and her then-boyfriend Tony Just's one-night stay at the Savoy Hotel in London, in 1999 when she painted "Tony (Savoy)," to the whopping 109.4 tons released by "Torqued Eclipse IV," Richard Serra's steel behemoth made in 1998, Wang's computations have a tendency to skew creative. This variable seems to increase with the ephemerality of the practice under inspection. Those that are famously intangible verge on poetry: Marina Abramovic's cube for her 736 hour, 30 minute performance "The Artist Is Present" that took place at MoMA last year is based on the lamps that were used to light her (Wang's Abramovic object is the negative space under a chair executed in wood); Vanessa Beecroft's carbon copy (a plaster cube that tapers to a breast and nipple) is derived from Kanye West's flight by private jet from Paris Fashion Week to New York for his 2009 performance in "VB64."
The project risks being read as didactic or, even worse, as too earnest, but on the contrary, it's shrewdly tongue-in-cheek. Most contemporary value systems, no matter how seemingly separate, chase similarly dematerialized resources down parallel tracks - the art market and the stock market for instance. What drives demand is universal - more and more. Wang's distillations of these in-demand artworks into sleek but slightly absurd narratives and boxes, with scientific precision and in the name of Mother Earth, seem very well reasoned. "While the medium for 'Carbon Copies' is the atmosphere itself," he says, "the subject is the expansion of the artwork; the web of services and ceremony into which it is embedded in the art world today."

        
Art Odyssey
        
Art and Commerce | Vuitton Bags The Big Shots
        
Now Viewing | 'Blood of Two'
        
Shaun Caley Regen | Art Impresario
        
The Post-Materialist | Satirizing Luxury

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); FASHION SHOWS (50%) Damien Hirst; Elizabeth Peyton; Foxy Production; Gerhard Richter; John Currin; Julie Mehretu; matthew barney; Michael Wang; Richard Serra; Takashi Murakami; Vanessa Beecroft; Culture

PERSON: KANYE WEST (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



524 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filings Declined in 2011

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Bankruptcies declined nearly 12 percent in the United States in 2011 from a year earlier. 

 BODY:
Bankruptcy filings fell nearly 12 percent in 2011 from the year before, according to statistics from Epiq Systems, which tracks the data.
There were roughly 1.4 million bankruptcy filings last year, according to a post on the Credit Slips blog about the statistics by Robert Lawless, a professor at the University of Illinois College of Law and an authority on bankruptcy. The full year numbers continue a trend that was clear last summer.
The vast majority of the filings -- about 70 percent -- are Chapter 7 bankruptcies, which allow individuals to avoid repaying their debts if they pass a means test. Roughly another third are Chapter 13 filings, under which filers must pay back a portion of their debts over three to five years.
Declines have been seen in both Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcies, with a slightly larger decline in Chapter 7, according to Professor Lawless, who analyzed the Epiq data as supplied to the Bankruptcy Data Projectat Harvard.
The daily bankruptcy rate in December was 4,584, also a 12 percent decline on a year-over-year basis.
The decline in bankruptcies, though, doesn't necessarily reflect an improvement in the economy. Professor Lawless said in an interview that consumer bankruptcy filings are typically a function of access to credit. If consumers are having trouble paying bills, but they can put spending on a credit card, they are typically able to forgo filing for bankruptcy.
The Federal Reserve reported this week that consumer borrowing rose substantially in November, suggesting that people were able to use credit more easily than in recent years.
Professor Lawless said he suspected that bankruptcies would continue to decline in the coming year, but said he would have to do more analysis on that hypothesis.
Have you considered filing for bankruptcy protection?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%) Credit and Debt; Personal Bankruptcies; University of Illinois; United States

COMPANY: EPIQ NV (91%)

ORGANIZATION: University of Illinois

INDUSTRY: NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (91%); SIC3672 PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



525 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Thursday Reading: America's Binge Drinking, on a Map

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: America's binge drinking on a map, unemployed mortgage holders get extension on payments, publishers cater to the Downton Abbey crowd and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Religious groups were given an exception to the work biaslaw. (National)
        
Publishers cater to the Downton Abbey crowd. (Business)
        
Survey finds rising perception of class tension. (National)
        
When you are disabled and need a cab. (Letters)
        
Sampling the future of gadgetry. (Business)
        
Turning to tech on the road. (Business)
        
Unemployed mortgage holders can get extension on payments. (Business)
        
The United States halts imports of orange juice. (Business)
        
Safeguarding a child's mobile device from pornography. (Business)
        
A Droid with a better battery life. (Gadgetwise)
        
Flexible computers make smarter credit cards. (Gadgetwise)
        
Dollar store decor. (Home)
        
Mascaras with innovative wands. (Thursday Styles)
        
Excitement around donations by text fades. (Bits)
        
The nation's greenhouse gas culprits. (Green)
        
America's drinking binges, mapped. (Well)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RELIGION (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%) Alcohol Abuse; Mortgages; Unemployment

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



526 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2108 words

HEADLINE: In the Fight Against Poverty, It's Time for a Revolution

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: With poverty in America deepening, the need for committed programs like LIFT has grown more urgent. 

 BODY:
Is it time to rethink our basic assumptions about the way we fight poverty?
When Michael Harrington's landmark book on poverty, "The Other America," was published in 1962, Harrington startled the nation's leaders, including President John F. Kennedy, by shining a spotlight on the deep poverty that remained hidden in America. Harrington's book became an underpinning for the War on Poverty. Half a century later, the United States Census bureau has produced what may become another landmark reference. Based on an updated method for assessing poverty, the bureau has found that far more Americans are scraping by than was previously known: 100 million Americans - one in three - are "deep poor," "poor," or "near poor."
Adding to the impact of this analysis is the growing realization that American society has become more calcified. The decline of social mobility in the United States is now acknowledged as a serious problem by Democrats and Republicans alike. As Jason DeParle reported recently in The Times, new research indicates that if you start off near the bottom of the income ladder in the United States, you're far more likely to remain there than if you're in the same situation in Canada or Europe. And if you start off poor in Denmark or Britain, for example, you're much likely to reach the top fifth in income than if you try to make the same climb in the United States. It seems that the Danish Dream and the British Dream are currently more alive - at least for the most disadvantaged - than the American Dream.
That dream has never been just about income, of course, but about self-determination. As Harrington observed, poverty is more than lacking minimum standards of health care, housing, food and education. "Poverty," he wrote, "should be defined psychologically in terms of those whose place in the society is such that they are internal exiles who, almost inevitably, develop attitudes of defeat and pessimism and who are therefore excluded from taking advantage of new opportunities."
In recent years, economists and policy makers have shifted toward this view. Amartya Sen, who won a Nobel Prize in economics, has argued that economists should think of poverty as that which deprives people of the opportunity to develop and use their capabilities. Others argue that the goal in anti-poverty efforts should be to help poor people increase their "capacity to aspire" and navigate toward self-defined goals. Researchers in the United Kingdom have developed tools to measure "well-being," looking at such things as material goods, relationships and self-beliefs. The focus is also shifting from addressing individual poverty to stabilizing families. Last year, the British government began an ambitious new child poverty strategy based on many of these ideas.
Much of this makes intuitive sense. But there is a problem: the system of social services that has been built up over past generations isn't designed to increase poor people's "capacity to aspire" and pursue their goals. Social services aren't treated as part of an integrated process of human development. Just the opposite. Services are fragmented and clients are regularly shunted from agency to agency. Caseworkers serving people who are applying for public benefits don't have the time, or the discretion, to get to know their clients, let alone brainstorm with them about problem solving.
But that's what's required. Many Americans struggling in poverty today need more than financial assistance; they need help figuring out how to plug into a changing economy. They need help devising a plan forward. One of the most innovative organizations working to re-imagine poverty alleviation along these lines is called LIFT. It was founded by college students in 1998, and most of the work is still conducted by student volunteers. Last year, LIFT mobilized 674 volunteers who contributed 126,000 volunteer hours and assisted about 10,000 families. If the American Dream is to be resuscitated for many of nation's poor, there is a great deal that we can learn from them.
LIFT's approach is grounded in the principle that change happens through relationships. "The sheer act of two people coming together, sharing their strengths in a trusting relationship, is the most important first step in creating transformation," explains Kirsten Lodal, LIFT's chief executive and co-founder. "It's the portal from which people are able to access opportunity in all its many dimensions."
If this sounds soft, it isn't. LIFT has spent more than a decade systematizing what amounts to a social technology. It has developed a set of working principles - among them, be humble, transparent, and friendly, focus on strengths, beware of your own biases - for working with clients. The advocates all use technology (like the digital natives they are) to track every meeting, as well as clients' progress on their goals.
They have looked closely at the human qualities required to address poverty. Above all, LIFT looks for volunteers who have demonstrated empathy. "We believe the capacity for empathy is the primary indicator of how successful volunteers will be in building strong relationships with their clients," explained Lodal. They look for evidence in past behavior that applicants are genuinely motivated to fight poverty. This isn't the way government agencies usually do their hiring.
Advocates are trained to treat clients with courtesy, to value their time, and to listen to their stories (while maintaining clear boundaries). They are not to push their ideas or judge others for their failures. (They also know when they have to refer clients to professionals.) The job is to help people stabilize their lives so they can begin thinking about, and committing to, longer-term goals. This takes time and continuing effort on the part of advocates, who fight for months and sometimes years to help clients find housing, jobs, skills training, education, public benefits and emergency assistance.
Another difference is that LIFT, which is a nonprofit and whose services are free, locates its offices within the communities it is serving, and makes special efforts to recruit advocates from the same background as the majority of its clients. Patricia Perez, a former advocate in LIFT's Bronx office who now works for the United States Treasury, was motivated to help when she was a Fordham student because she had experienced homelessness herself as a youth.
"Seeing how helpless my mother felt when she couldn't get us housing, I wanted to do something to help others," Perez told me. When she applied for food stamps, she recalled being yelled at and feeling as if she were doing something shameful. "A lot of our clients come into the office feeling very discouraged," she said. "When they sit down they're slumped over. They keep their coats on. Their faces are suspicious. At the end, they're sitting up straight and they seem excited or hopeful about next steps. It's something that's not a solid 'deliverable' - but it always felt like a big deal to me." She added: "Being treated politely is for many people a new experience."
Many LIFT clients engage with the organization on a continuing basis because it is an enjoyable experience for them. Some are tearful when recounting the kindness with which they were treated.
Maria Gilbert, an advocate in LIFT's West Philadelphia office, came to the program because she was pregnant and couldn't afford to continue attending Temple University. Her advocate, Tanisha Walker, who also attended Temple and had a young daughter, helped her find government benefits and then worked with her to figure out a manageable educational pathway through Delaware County Community College. Now Gilbert plans to transfer to West Chester University and become a social worker. In the meantime, she's volunteering at LIFT, helping clients build resumes, get immigration papers, apply for jobs, find food banks, and so forth. "People helped me, and it's my obligation to help others," she said. "And I realize I'm well suited for this job."
Before, she never imagined that so many different people needed so much help and that so many resources were available. One of her clients was a registered nurse with a degree from a major university who was pregnant, unemployed, recently divorced, and had another child to support. "I never imagined that someone with those credentials would be in a situation where she needed help," Gilbert said.
In fact, LIFT is seeing more people in the "near poor" or "newly poor" category. In some cases, clients came in who had been employed for 20 or 30 years and lost a job. Some had no idea how to do an Internet job search, or even how to put together a resume. After repeated rejections, some found their confidence shattered. Advocates help these clients acquire new skills, rebuild resumes and use online tools to identify opportunities. Most important, they encourage them to send out applications and sending them out - 50, 75, 100 - as many as it takes. "Sometimes I think our most important job is just keeping people from giving up," says Lodal.
Listening to stories of LIFT clients, it becomes abundantly clear that efforts to address poverty and social problems with fragmented, short-term fixes make no sense. LIFT is now part of a partnership with the city of Boston called the Circle of Promise that is linking schools with community-based efforts to stabilize poor families.
Within the Circle, the city has identified 12 "turnaround schools" with 6,000 students and 600 students who are "most at risk." Each school has a liaison whose job is to get to know the kids and the issues their families are facing, and when necessary, refer parents or guardians to partner organizations like LIFT. "As we were working with the children, we realized that you have to help the whole families," explained Marie St. Fleur, the city's chief of Advocacy and Strategic Investment. "It's not about case management. It's about equipping parents with the tools they need to move towards economic stability. That means navigating a very complex human services system we've built."
Over the past 11 months, LIFT-Boston's Roxbury office has assisted 564 families within the Circle. Approximately 80 percent requested housing services. More than half requested employment assistance. A third spoke no English. A third sought job training. One in five had no health insurance. (In Massachusetts, only 2 percent of the state's population was uninsured in 2010.) To date, the student advocates have helped as follows: 19 families averted eviction; 23 obtained stable housing; 11 got into emergency shelters; 23 found jobs; 9 enrolled in job training; 61 received public benefits they were entitled to; 34 completed personal budgets; 47 were connected to community health resources; 43 were connected to child care, after-school and tutoring programs; and 118 received basic resources like food and clothing.
"It's a beginning," notes St. Fleur. "We've seen absenteeism dropping. Families have gotten stabilized with housing, jobs, skills." It will take time to see how this affects student learning. It's hard to imagine it won't help. Research indicates that students who go homeless, move frequently, or experience turmoil at home are far more likely to fail in school.
As part of LIFT's volunteer training, advocates are asked to reflect on the question: "Why I LIFT?" The idea is to help them reconnect to the meaning of their work - and to think critically about how they are doing it. Given the new landscape of American poverty and near poverty, the country should do the same. 
"When we start dealing with poverty," notes Lodal, "we turn off our brains about what has worked over time for the middle and upper classes in America." It's not just benefits and material resources - but plans, relationships, beliefs and aspirations - the kinds of things LIFT helps its clients to think about for themselves every day.
Looking ahead, LIFT plans to bring in outside parties to evaluate its work. The goal is to accumulate a body of evidence - building on its work with 50,000 families to date - to challenge the existing assumptions in the human services system. "We'd like to advance this very simple concept," says Lodal. "That two people - neighbors, students, retired professionals, it can be anyone - can come together voluntarily and help someone identify their goals and achieve their potential."
(UPDATE: David Bornstein has replied to several readers in the comments below.)


        
Workers of the World, Employed
        
Out of Poverty, Family-Style
        
Publishers as Partners in Literacy
        
Microfinance Under Fire
        
When Microcredit Won't Do

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); CENSUS (57%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%) Poverty; Fixes

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); DENMARK (91%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



527 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
MSNBC: The dodginess of third-party audits rather than government inspections has been highlighted by a Congressional investigation of a cantelope-borne listeria outbreak that killed 30 people last year. The auditor awarded Jensen Farms in Colorado, the source of the tainted fruit, a "superior" rating just before the outbreak. -- Glenn Collins
LA Weekly: Looking for Jewish Iraqi food in Los Angeles, with Jonathan Gold's help. ... 
The Jewish Daily Forward: . . . and mapping out a kosher way to cook Julia Child's boeuf bourguignon. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Awl: In search of lost tang, a Korean-American recalls his most Proustian encounters with gochujang, the thick hot-pepper paste. -- Patrick Farrell
Tumblr: A chef with a sideline in economics ponders whether there is any truly fair way to allocate reservations at popular restaurants.-- Julia Moskin
The Atlantic: Marion Nestle gets down on the Dining section for using "protein" to mean meat, poultry or fish. They are, at most, 17 percent protein, she says. How about "flesh"? Would that make you happy, Marion?--Nick Fox
Mailhos: Revamping colcannon, the classic Irish dish, with French kale.
 -- Jeff Gordinier
Well: Binge drinking in America, analyzed and mapped. No surprise, perhaps, that the densest concentrations of guzzlers dwell in the coldest swaths of New England and the Midwest. But Hawaii? -- Patrick Farrell 
Edible Manhattan: Here's a fine issue devoted to drink in New York.
-- Nick Fox
Edible Manhattan: And the possible upsides of a workers' strike at the Hunts Point wholesale market. -- Julia Moskin
The Atlantic: One of those explanations that can't be repeated too often: the differences among the terms organic, local, seasonal and sustainable -- courtesy of Marion Nestle. -- Patrick Farrell
The Oregonian: A recipe for moist, spicy cakes that are known, at one Portland restaurant, as curry financiers. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Wall Street Journal: Davidovich Bakery's in Woodside, Queens, plans to take up where H & H bagels left off. It's taken over many of H & H's accounts and expects to open its first retail store on the Upper West or Upper East side and 10 retail locations over the next year and a half.-- Nick Fox
Poetry Foundation: A Marilyn Chin poem about squid, cooked with ginger and scallion, and the importance of honoring an apron. - Jeff Gordinier
Nation's Restaurant News: Instead of expanding or cloning in the down economy, restaurateurs polled in a new survey are using what little money they have in 2012 for marketing (24 percent, mostly in social media), for restaurant redesigns (24 percent), equipment upgrades (21 percent) and new technology (9 percent). But in a sharp reversal of previous bloodletting, more than half of the operators say they will maintain current staff levels, and 38 percent will hire more employees. -- Glenn Collins 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BACTERIA (73%); POULTRY (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); BAKERIES (61%); POETRY (60%); RETAILERS (60%); STRIKES (50%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



528 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Carpetbagger)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Sundance Sued Over Opening-Night Documentary

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: A Florida developer, David Siegel, has sued the Sundance Film Festival and the director of its opening-night film, Lauren Greenfield, over the description of the film "Queen of Versailles" in a press release. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - It's not unusual for the subjects of documentaries to have a meltdown over what they see on screen, sometimes resorting to defamation lawsuits. A Florida time-share developer, David Siegel, is taking the unusual step of suing not over the content of a film about his family but over a written description of it.
Mr. Siegel, a focus of "The Queen of Versailles," about his construction of a 90,000-square-foot megamansion and close encounter with the recession, on Tuesday filed a defamation suit in U.S. District Court in Orlando, Fla., against the Sundance Institute, the film's director, Lauren Greenfield, and her husband. At issue is a description of the film in a Sundance-issued press release in November.
In announcing its 2012 festival lineup, Sundance described "The Queen of Versailles," which will play opening night on Jan. 19, as a look at the Siegel family as "their time-share empire collapses and their house is foreclosed. Their rags-to-riches-to-rags story reveals the innate virtues and flaws of the American dream."

Mr. Siegel, according to the lawsuit, contacted Sundance, Ms. Greenfield and her husband, the producer Frank Evers, to object; Sundance revised the description to say, "their timeshare empire falters due to the economic crisis" and removed the foreclosed bit, which was not true. It left rags-to-riches-to-rags. Mr. Evers contacted media outlets that had published the information, including The New York Times, to ask that it be revised. (The Times complied.)
But Mr. Siegel contends in the lawsuit that the damage was done, with over 12,000 Web sites picking up the original description. His suit, which seeks $75,000 from the Institute and $75,000 from the filmmakers, says that their "continued campaign and proliferation of false and defamatory statements" are "motivated by ill will and malice, and at the very least with a reckless disregard for the truth."
A spokesman for the filmmakers said they had no comment. Sundance issued the following statement: "Sundance Institute maintains its long-held and firm commitment to freedom of expression and looks forward to screening this film by an award-winning filmmaker."

        
Delusional Teenagers and Other Sundance Offerings
        
Eclectic as Ever, Sundance Unveils Competition Lineup
        
Music Box Makes Its Bobby Fischer Move
        
Sundance Embraces Both Romance and Suicide
        
Focus Gets into the Sundance Game

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (62%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%) David Siegel; Lauren Greenfield; Queen of Versailles; Sundance Film Festival; Greenfield, Lauren; Siegel, David; Sundance Institute

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (91%) Sundance Institute

PERSON: Greenfield, Lauren; Siegel, David

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



529 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: ING Revises I.P.O. Plans

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: The ING Group is abandoning plans for an initial public offering of its combined Asian and European businesses, citing turbulence in the equity markets. 

 BODY:
The ING Group is abandoning plans for an initial public offering of its combined Asian and European businesses, citing turbulence in the equity markets.
The firm, which said it was now considering a future sale of its Asian business, still plans to pursue a separate I.P.O. for its European arm.
"Given the uncertain economic outlook and turbulent financial markets, especially in Europe, ING has decided to explore other options for its Asian insurance and investment management business," Jan Hommen, the chief executive of ING, said in a statement.
 In recent years, ING has moved to carve up its global operations. The firm, which received a 10 billion euro bailout from the Dutch government in 2008, has to split up its assets by the end of 2013 to comply with requirements attached to the aid. 
In 2010, ING announced plans to pursue two offerings, one for its United States insurance and investment management business and another for a combined listing of its European and Asian assets. 
Last year, the company sold ING Direct USA, its online banking business in the United States, to Capital One for about $9 billion in cash and stock.
By abandoning plans to roll up its European and Asian assets into one offering, ING may be able to unlock more value for its Asian business. The European operation has been weighing on the company's bottom line in recent quarters, as a result of sovereign debt concerns and general economic weakness. 
In the third quarter of 2011, for instance, the European insurance business recorded a 25 percent decline in operating profit, to 57 million euros, from the period a year earlier. Its Asian insurance unit, meanwhile, reported a slight increase in operating profit in the period, to 134 million euros.
The company said a larger, combined offering seemed too ambitious in the current market environment. 
"We can't wait for the markets to improve," Ingeborg Klunder, a company spokeswoman, told DealBook on Thursday. "An I.P.O. of the European business will be more manageable, because of its size."

        
In Fed's Move on Capital One Deal, a Test of Dodd-Frank
        
HSBC to Sell Japanese Private Banking Unit to Credit Suisse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (67%); INTERNET BANKING (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (64%); PRIVATE BANKING (50%) Capital One; ING; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Insurance; Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep N.V; Amsterdam (Netherlands); Europe; United States; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; ING Groep N.V|ING|NYSE; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); ING BANK FSB (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep N.V

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; ING Groep N.V; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%) Amsterdam (Netherlands); Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



530 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Lost 50 Partners Last Year

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The exodus of senior executives for the year was among the largest since Goldman Sachs became a publicly traded company in 1999. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs lost about 50 partners in 2011, one of the biggest annual losses of senior executives in its 13 years as a publicly traded company.
Goldman, which is on track next week to report weak fourth-quarter and year-end results, has seen a number of prominent retirements in recent weeks, including Edward K. Eisler and David B. Heller, who both led Goldman's influential securities division, as well as Edward C. Forst, a head of asset management and member of Goldman's management committee.
A new regulatory filing analyzed by The New York Times and Footnoted.com, a division of Morningstar that analyzes corporate filings, shows that Goldman started the year with 483 partners. Fifty left and another 10 others were added to the partnership pool. The size of the pool, as of the end of December, is 442 people. 
 There are just 33 partners at the firm who were partners when Goldman went public in 1999, down six from this time last year. 
On Wall Street, becoming a partner has long been considered the pinnacle of success. Partners are typically the best-paid employees at the firm, and have a larger say in how the bank is run. Only a small fraction of Goldman employees will make it to this level, and it can take years to make partner. 
But over the last year Goldman has seen profits dip and has been forced to cut staff and slash costs. As Goldman shrinks, so does the partnership pool. Goldman tries to keep the percentage of partners to employees at 1.8 percent, according to people with knowledge of the process. So as Goldman shrinks, it can be expected that the number of partners will also fall. It is not possible to track partner defections for every year since the firm went public, but the data available suggests that the annual partner loss is 2011 is one of the worst since it went public. 
Some Goldman partners have been eager to leave, according to people who have spoken to them but are not authorized to speak on the record. The firm has been going through a transition period since the financial crisis. Its earnings prowess has been eroded by continued economic worries here and abroad as well as new regulations that have eaten into profits.
Since the crisis, Goldman has also become a symbol of excess and has taken a beating from lawmakers and protestors alike. This has dragged down morale in the firm, weighing on the minds of partners considering leaving. 
The corporate filings reviewed by The Times and Footnoted also show that 56 percent of the current partnership is based in the United States and another 13 percent is in Britain. More than half of the new partners are from Australia and New Zealand, the result of Goldman buying the rest of an existing business there. 

        
2 Securities Heads Are Latest to Leave Goldman
        
One of Goldman Sachs's 10,000 Small Businesses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); WORKPLACE MORALE (66%) Goldman Sachs; Appointments and Executive Changes; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



531 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: India's Chronic Battle With Malnutrition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Economic growth has not helped feed an undernourished population. 

 BODY:
"It is unrealistic to expect any major breakthroughs in dealing with the diets of impoverished Indians," a correspondent wrote in The New York Times in an article on Oct. 23, 1981.
While the words were written thirty years ago, they might have been written this week.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Tuesday that India faced "national shame" because 42 percent of children below the age of five are underweight. The survey he referred to also found that India has failed to significantly improve the diet of almost half of its children, despite two decades of economic growth, because of everything from lack of coordination between government departments to continued lack of maternal education. 
Just as it did thirty years ago, malnutrition looms large in India, and by some measures seems to be getting worse. In the twenty years preceding 1981, "per capita intake of calories has dropped from 93 percent of daily requirements to 91 percent," The New York Times wrote. At the time, India's population was 680 million.
Despite the recent boom years of the 1990s and 2000s, there has been little improvement in overall nutrition in India, according to United Nations data. About 20 percent of India's over 1 billion population remained "undernourished" during that time, meaning their "food intake regularly provides less than their minimum energy requirements." The most recent"Global Hunger Index" shows that two-thirds of the 122 developing countries studied had reduced hunger levels in recent years, but that hunger levels in India have increased. 
The New York Times has been documenting India's battle against malnutrition for decades. A look back at our coverage:

        
"India has been one of the greatest national success stories in the modern world," Steven R. Weisman wrote in 1987, on the 40th anniversary of the country's independence. Life expectancy has increased and food production has tripled since Independence, he wrote, but "more than a third of its people still suffer from hunger and malnutrition."
        
"A deeply troubled India is approaching this week's national election in a mood of cynicism and foreboding," Barbara Crossette wrote in 1991. At the time, a third of the population was born with irreversible malnutrition. "We are breeding a nation of morons," an Indian development expert told her.
        
Six weeks after India conducted nuclear tests, prompting economic sanctions by the United States, the World Bank resumed a lending program with $543 million in aid, David E. Sanger wrote in June 1998, in part to combat malnutrition in Andhra Pradesh.
        
India's programs to feed children in school had multiplied in recent years, Celia Dugger wrote in March of 2006, but by preschool age it was "too late to prevent the stunting and damage to intellect that occur by age 2."
        
When Somini Sengupta visited Jahangirpuri, a slum in New Delhi, in March of 2009, child malnutrition in India was at similar levels to today. India runs the "largest child feeding program in the world," she wrote, with a budget of $1.3 billion a year. But, "experts agree it is inadequately designed, and has made barely a dent in the ranks of sick children in the past 10 years."An accompanying audio slide show, with photographs from Ruth Fremson, documented the devastating effects of malnutrition being treated at a center in Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere.
        
Six months later, contributor David Reiff wrote about "India's Malnutrition Dilemma," saying "Overcoming malnutrition requires not just an end to denial but also a decision that eradicating malnutrition is as much of a priority for India as its recent decision to build a hundred new ships for its navy over the next decade." Mr. Reiff argued that in an emergency, even democracies declared martial law. "Chronic malnutrition is an emergency; it just doesn't look like one."
        
There is no evidence that economic growth has reduced malnutrition among children, Donald G. McNeil wrote in March of 2011, based on a study by scientists from Harvard and the University of Michigan, which broke down malnutrition in India by region. Malnutrition was less common in northeastern states like Mizoram and Manipur, and in Kerala, where the government spent more on education and health, Mr. McNeil Jr. wrote. There is "little correlation between a state's economic growth and how much food most children got," he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MALNUTRITION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%) Singh, Manmohan; Malnutrition; United Nations; India

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (87%) Singh, Manmohan

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



532 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Romney Rising

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Mitt Romney went to bed Tuesday night as the winner of the New Hampshire Republican primary but awoke Wednesday to potentially damaging attacks from his rivals, as the candidates competed for support in the Jan. 21 primary in South Carolina. Jim Rutenberg and Jeff Zeleny write that the next 10 days will be a test "of whether conservatives opposed to Mitt Romney can marshal the arguments, tactics and unity to slow his rise and rally around a single alternative - and of whether Mr. Romney, now in a commanding position, can show the muscle needed to stamp out the opposition and take control of the party."
Clearly pleased by the attacks against Mr. Romney are Democrats, who view them as a test of their own strategy against Mr. Romney if he becomes the nominee. Jackie Calmes writes that Democrats hope to see Mr. Romney emerge as a Republican nominee who, as an aide to Obama put it, represents "everything that people hate about this economy."
Despite Rick Perry's poor showing in Iowa and New Hampshire and in recent polls, he seems to have found in South Carolina a place where his message of faith resonates with the state's socially conservative voters, Richard A. Oppel, Jr. reports.
South Carolina has struggled "mightily" to shake the recession, so voters there are weighing social issues against economic ones as they prepare to vote Jan. 21, Kim Severson writes.
After several fits and starts, the Obama administration is rushing to take advantage of an opportunity to talk peace with Taliban leaders --who recently reversed their longstanding refusal to negotiate with the United States--in hopes of bringing the Afghanistan war to a close, Steven Lee Myers, Matthew Rosenberg and Eric Schmitt report.
Around the Web:
Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor, is challenging Republicans on taxes, Time reports. Mr. Buffett has pledged to match their voluntary contributions to the Treasury dollar for dollar with a bonus for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, .
Happening in Washington:
Economic data scheduled to be released Thursday include December retail sales and weekly unemployment insurance claims (8:30 a.m.), weekly mortgage rates (10), and the federal budget for December (2 p.m.).

        
The Early Word: Replaced
        
The Early Word: Rivals
        
The Early Word: Optimism
        
The Early Word: Strategy
        
The Weekend Word: Gone Negative

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALIBAN (77%); RECESSION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BUDGETS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012



533 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Could Huntsman and the Democrats Ally on Bank Reform?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Jon Huntsman's proposals on capping the size and leverage of banks could offer the basis for bipartisan support of an initiative that was defeated in the course of the Dodd-Frank debate, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The debate over megabanks and - in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis - how to deal with all the problems associated with "too big to fail" in the financial sector has not been easy for many politicians. 
The problems and potential solutions do not map readily into the standard left vs. right divide in American politics.
The left generally wants the state to do more, and these days many on the right usually want the state to do much less. But too many banking regulators are "captured" - effectively working to promote the interests of the big banks rather than to limit the dangers to the rest of us. 
Given that, more regulation does not make much sense. 
And the big banks have a strong incentive to become even bigger - their size gives them economic and political power. Left to their own devices, these banks will become even bigger and blow themselves up at greater cost to ordinary citizens (see Western Europe for details). 
So no regulation is also an unappealing proposition.

In a year of presidential-campaign politics, there is a remarkable convergence between President Obama and Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner. Both say we can tweak the rules to keep the banks from becoming dangerous. The Obama administration calls its approach "smart regulation"; Mr. Romney has spoken of repealing the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation (although his Web site is devoid of any specifics). 
But their proposed approaches for the next four years are very similar, relying on the state to play a particular oversight role that has not gone well in recent decades. In this sense, they are both statist.
The way to cut our Gordian financial knot is simple - force the big banks to become smaller. Small banks and other financial institutions can be allowed to fail, unencumbered by any kind of government bailout. MF Global failed recently with about $40 billion in total assets; the shock waves did not bring on global panic. 
A properly functioning market economy involves failure of this kind, although it is traumatic for employees and, in this specific case, for many customers.
A version of this idea was put forward by Senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Ted Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, during the Dodd-Frank debate in 2010. Their SAFE banking amendment would have put a hard cap on the size of the largest banks relative to the size of the economy. 
This amendment was defeated, 61 to 33, on the floor of the Senate.
From the right, Jon Huntsman has proposed what is essentially an equivalent idea. He offers a menu of options - presumably to give himself some room to negotiate with Congress - but his first idea is: "Set a hard cap on bank size based on assets as a percentage of G.D.P.," where the specific cap seems very much in alignment with Brown-Kaufman. 
Mr. Huntsman also proposes a hard cap on leverage and, as a complement to this, a punitive fee on bank size: 
The fee would incentivize the major banks to slim themselves down; failure to do so would result in increasing the fee until the banks are systemically safe. Any fees collected would be used to reduce taxes for the broader nonfinancial corporate sector.
Not only is Mr. Huntsman advancing concrete proposals; he is also making it abundantly clear that these policies are the proper way to apply pro-market thinking. 
The left does not like big banks because they represent an abuse of power by private individuals. The clear-thinking right detests such banks because they are supported by large, nontransparent and very dangerous government subsidies. There is nothing about market forces in too-big-to-fail banks; this is state capture, pure and simple.
Both sides should be able to agree that they have converged on this point. The left (and the center) should be supporting Mr. Huntsman for the Republican nomination and helping to explain why his ideas on banking make sense - at least as a way to push financial-sector reforms in a meaningful direction. (Of course, the left may not like Mr. Huntsman's views on other issues, such as the budget, so the general election is another matter.)
Some commentators on the right get this. But important voices on the left hold back - perhaps refusing to believe that they can agree with an idea that also has support on the right. Granted, it doesn't happen often, but this is one such opportunity to make progress against a powerful and dangerous special interest.
On reducing the size of our largest banks, Senators Brown and Kaufman asked if reaching across the political aisle were possible. Their amendment was supported by a couple of Republican votes, including that of Richard Shelby of Alabama, ranking minority member of the Senate Banking Committee. Most of their supporters were Democrats.
Now Mr. Huntsman offers a different answer and a definitive "yes" on reducing the size of our largest banks. If Mr. Huntsman becomes the Republican nominee, or even if he gets traction in the coming primaries, the idea of reining in the size and power of megabanks could actually take hold within the Republican Party.
Why won't people on the left see this opportunity and support it fully?

        
No One Is Above the Law
        
The Huntsman Alternative
        
Huntsman's Warning on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Where Is the Volcker Rule?
        
A Question for Newt Gingrich

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) banking regulation; Daily Economist; European debt crisis; financial crisis; politics; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Today's Economist

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TED KAUFMAN (57%); SHERROD BROWN (56%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



534 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Gains For Romney - But Not in South Carolina

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Interpreting polls that suggest that Mitt Romney's dominance of the field in South Carolina is fading. 

 BODY:
3:36 p.m. | Updated I wrote on Wednesday that I expected Mitt Romney to expand his modest lead in the South Carolina polls once his victory in New Hampshire was reflected in the surveys there.
Instead, the first poll of the state after New Hampshire suggests just the opposite and shows Mr. Romney's lead contracting in South Carolina, although I would urge a lot of caution in interpreting it.
The poll, an automated survey from InsiderAdvantage, was conducted on Wednesday and shows Mr. Romney with 23 percent of the vote, just 2 points ahead of Newt Gingrich at 21 percent. The poll has Rick Santorum and Ron Paul tied for third place at 13 percent, with Jon M. Huntsman Jr. having moved ahead of Rick Perry for fifth place.
Our forecast model is designed to weight polls from after New Hampshire much more heavily than those conducted before it. It also accounts for momentum and calculates that Mr. Romney's is negative based on this survey. In fact, Mr. Romney's numbers have been on a decline in South Carolina following an initial "bounce" after his strong showing in the Iowa caucuses.
InsiderAdvantage has a mixed track record and rates fairly poorly in the FiveThrityEight pollster ratings, which is one reason to interpret these numbers with some care. In addition, Matt Towery, the head of InsiderAdvantage, formerly served as the head of Mr. Gingrich's political organization from 1992 until Mr. Gingrich left Congress.
However, another polling firm that rates more highly, Public Policy Polling, said in a series of Twitter messages that it has also detected a tight race between Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich in South Carolina, with little evidence of favorable momentum for Mr. Romney following his New Hampshire victory. Public Policy Polling will release its results on Friday.
Confusing matters further is that a poll of Florida, from Rasmussen Reports, did show some gains for Mr. Romney. The poll, conducted on Wednesday, showed Mr. Romney with 41 percent of the vote there, better than he has done in any prior survey of the state. The poll also showed Mr. Gingrich's numbers on the decline.
The Gallup national tracking poll also had good results for Mr. Romney, with his moving up to 34 percent of the vote, his highest-ever standing in that survey. Only a small portion of Gallup's interviews were conducted after the New Hampshire results became known, so he could realize some further gains in coming days.
It may be the case that either the South Carolina poll or the Florida poll prove to be outliers once they are taken in the context of other surveys.
There are conflicting threads of momentum in play in the Republican race right now: Mr. Romney won New Hampshire and might get a fresh bounce out of that, but the bounce from his narrow Iowa victory may be fading, and he has endured some tough news cycles of late as Republican candidates have increasingly scrutinized the economic role played by his firm Bain Capital. That can produce erratic results from day to day and from state to state, and can make it especially important to look at an average of several different surveys.
Simply put, this is one time when some patience is called for. We should have a clearer picture of where the candidates stand in a couple of days.
But if the initial results from South Carolina and Florida are confirmed by other pollsters, they would suggest that Florida could play a backstop role for Mr. Romney, in somewhat the same way that New Hampshire did for him relative to Iowa. In addition to having somewhat more heterogeneous demographics than South Carolina, Florida is a much larger state that is much more expensive to advertise in, which could put Mr. Romney's resource-strained Republican challengers at a disadvantage to him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; Rasmussen Reports; Florida; New Hampshire; South Carolina; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Rasmussen Reports

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RON PAUL (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%) Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida; New Hampshire; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



535 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Blasts From the Fed's Past

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Transcripts from the Fed's 2006 meetings show that some of the nation's pre-eminent economic policy makers did not take seriously the possibility that problems in the housing market would send the nation tumbling into a deep recession. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Thursday released transcripts from meetings of its top policy committee in 2006. The release is part of the Fed's standard procedure, in which full transcripts are made available five years after the fact. 
The transcripts show that some of the nation's pre-eminent economic policy makers did not take seriously the possibility that problems in the housing market would send the nation tumbling into a deep recession. Binyamin Appelbaum of The Times, reading through the proceedings, found some of the committee members' comments particularly noteworthy, and sent out some highlights via posts on his Twitter feed:
Bernanke, Dec. 06: "Indications demand for housing may be stabilizing, but... there are probably still some downside risks in that sector. "
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012
Geithner, Dec. '06: "We think the fundamentals of the expansion going forward still look good."
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012
Warsh, Dec. '06: "I consider the debt capital markets to be incredibly robust."
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012
Warsh, Dec. '06: "Although we do see growth of household debt relative to income... I don't really note anything overly disturbing there. "
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012
Bies, Dec. '06: "some of us are optimistic that we may be approaching a bottom in the housing market. "
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012
Stern, Oct. '06: "The housing situation notwithstanding, I remain somewhat more optimistic about our prospects for real growth..."
- Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) January 12, 2012

        
The Fed's Advice on the Housing Crisis
        
Fed Lashes Out at 'Errors' in Reporting
        
Why Do Foreign Banks Need Dollars?
        
How the Fed Rescue Benefited Banks
        
Will Bernanke Take Aim at G.D.P.?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%) Federal Reserve; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System; Economix

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



536 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adviser's View of Unequal Opportunity

BYLINE: JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: As long as the rich keep getting richer and the middle class languishes, said Alan B. Krueger, the economy as a whole will suffer. 

 BODY:
What Mitt Romney a few days ago called "the bitter politics of envy," President Obama's chief economic adviser instead described Thursday as the basic economics of unequal opportunity.
As long as the rich keep getting richer and the middle class languishes, he said, the economy as a whole will suffer.
Alan B. Krueger, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers and an accomplished labor economist, presented chapter and verse of the administration's understanding of income inequality, economic opportunity and the fortunes of the middle class in a speech to the Center for American Progress, a research group closely aligned with the administration's viewpoint.
His theme: "Rising inequality has been bad for the U.S. economy."
It is a thought that Mr. Obama has incorporated into his core economic message, notably in his speech in Osawatomie, Kan., and it is an argument that will very likely echo again through the State of the Union address on Jan. 24.
But rarely is the economic evidence for the administration's now-familiar talking points presented in such detail. Mr. Krueger's 10-page text was more pedantic than polemic, less a stump speech than a statistical one. (Mr. Krueger, while a professor at Princeton, was a contributor in the past to the Economic Scene column of The New York Times and to this blog.)

He called the emerging data on income distribution "mind boggling." And he presented a case, as Mr. Obama has done recently, that the trend is only going to become more pronounced in the years ahead, making it harder and harder for poor and middle class people to move up the economic ladder. And that, he argued, would be bad for economic growth.
A few of his key points:
"I could see why someone could support tax cuts for top income earners if they had materially benefited the U.S. economy, but the macro evidence is clear that the economy did not perform better after last decade's tax cuts than it did after taxes were increased on top earners in the early 1990s."
"Rising inequality and slow income growth for the vast middle class have harmed the U.S. economy - namely, by encouraging many families to borrow beyond their means to try to maintain their consumption, and by reducing aggregate consumption."
"If another $1.1 trillion had been earned by the bottom 99 percent instead of the top 1 percent, annual consumption would be about $440 billion higher. This would be a 5 percent boost." (He added that there were caveats to this calculation.)
It follows that "the economy would be in better shape and aggregate demand would be stronger if the size of the middle class had not dwindled as a result of rising inequality."
The policy prescriptions that he said flow from this analysis are not surprising: they are the core of the Obama election-year agenda, and include carrying out the new health care law, further extending the payroll tax cut, maintaining strong regulations on the financial sector and ending "unnecessary tax cuts for the wealthy."
So whatever the economic evidence Mr. Krueger has assembled, it might not be a practical plan to put these words of his on a bumper sticker: "Support for equality of opportunity should be a nonpartisan issue."
Nor is Mr. Romney, who can recite his own economic rationale for moving the country in the opposite direction, likely to abandon his "envy" line anytime soon.

        
World of Commuters
        
Alan Krueger's New White House Job
        
Why Women Find Their Parents Unpleasant
        
The Value of College
        
Explaining Crisis Responses to 'a Skeptical Public'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); TRENDS (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); TAX LAW (67%) Alan B. Krueger; Krueger, Alan B; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Krueger, Alan B

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



537 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: No-Fishing Rule Roils Southern California

BYLINE: ERIK OLSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Environmentalists hail a ban on fishing in 350 square miles of state waters as a boon to fish populations and ecosystems. But fishermen are smarting over steep economic losses. 

 BODY:
When California's then-governor, Gray Davis, signed into law the sweeping Marine Life Protection Act in 1999, state wildlife officials knew they'd have a fight on their hands. 
The act was designed to simplify and strengthen a byzantine array of existing marine reserves and fishing regulations to create a coherent "ecosystem-based" policy of marine protection meant to allow fish populations, which have been in severe decline, to recover. 
Later, the Arnold Schwarzenegger administration divided the state's 1,100-mile coast into five regions and encouraged the participation of stakeholder groups that would hash out the location, size and scope of the reserves. Conservationists, scientists, fishermen, policy-makers and the public weighed in on the new regulations, each pushing hard for varying degrees of protection. 
The meetings were often contentious, with commercial and sport fishermen claiming that the reserves would spell doom to their way of life. Some saw an aggressive green agenda at work.

"What the environmentalists wanted, they wanted to take it all, " said Michael Thompson, co-owner of Newport Landing Sport Fishing in Newport Beach, Calif. "They wanted to leave us with nothing."
After much debate, the first phase of the plan went into effect in September 2007, with the creation of 21 reserves encompassing 20 percent of a 350-mile arc of the central California coast. A second phase began in May 2010, with the creation of 29 reserves encompassing approximately 153 square miles, or about 20 percent, of state waters from San Mateo County to Santa Barbara County. 
But perhaps the biggest test of the law began on Jan. 1, when reserves went into effect in Southern California, the state's most populous region. The California Fish and Game Commission began enforcing the new regulations on some 50 marine reserves from Point Concepcion, near Santa Barbara, to the border with Mexico. 
The reserves protect about 350 square miles of state waters, putting over 10 percent of the coastline off limits to any kind of fishing or even shell collecting along the beach or in tidal areas. Environmentalists hail the effort as a major milestone in marine conservation. 
"No other state has attempted this nor has any state tried to set up as exhaustive and detailed a process," Greg Helms, a program manager for the Ocean Conservancy in Santa Barbara, said. "It's a national first, and we know that other states other places around the world are watching."
In late December, I visited one of the hotly contested new marine reserves in Laguna Beach to produce a video about the effort. The area is favored by fishermen and lobstermen, who say they have lost some of their most cherished fishing grounds. Rodger Healy, a lobsterman featured in the video,says the new reserves may deal him a major blow. 
"I stand to lose probably 60 to 65 percent of the area I fish," he said. "Depending on the year, it's probably 75 percent of my income." 
Michael Thompson of Newport Landing Sport Fishing said he expected a similar drop in business. "We lost about 30 percent of our area," he said. Mr. Thompson said he was now redirecting resources to other activities like whale watching, burials at sea and harbor cruises. 
The California Department of Fish and Game said that there had been no citations or arrests related to violations of the rules. 
Paul Hamdorf, assistant chief of law enforcement for the California Department of Fish and Game, said that "there have been violations, but since we're just eleven days into it, we don't want to issue a bunch of citations to people who make mistakes. We're trying to educate now instead of making people angry."
Conservationists and many scientists hail marine reserves as the best way to rebuild once-thriving fish populations in California, which in some species have declined by over 90 percent. They point to numerous studies showing the success of marine reserves around the world. In one scientific survey of more than 100 reserves worldwide, scientists found a 446 percent average increase in biomass of animals and plants.. 
Locally, biologists monitoring fish populations and kelp within the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary say they have documented a 70 percent increase in biomass within the reserve after only five years of protection. 
"The difference inside the reserve versus outside the reserve is so dramatic," David Kushner, a biologist with the National Park Service, said. "If you're swimming underwater, it is pretty easy to see the difference. You'll see larger fish such as sheepshead and kelp bass and ocean white fish and large lobsters. 
"Immediately upon swimming outside of the marine reserve, those fish are all of a sudden smaller and there's fewer of them," he said.
The ecosystem approach favored by the state of California is unparalleled. But questions abound over whether the economically strapped Department of Fish and Game will be be able to properly enforce the rules regarding the new reserves. 
Indeed, some local conservation groups have taken it upon themselves to police the rocky tidal areas, posting volunteers who will gingerly inform recreational fishermen and shell-collecting beachcombers that they may be breaking the law. 
"It's a big change, and it should be a big boost to our marine life," says Ray Heimstra, associate director of Orange County Coastkeeper. "It will create areas where they can recover and we can hopefully in a number of years see the types of populations we saw far in the past." 

        
Shrugging Off Criticism, Europe Will Keep Trawling
        
Amid Dark Vents in the Depths, Something Stirs
        
A Choreographic Feeding Frenzy
        
Biodiversity in Turkey, at Risk Yet Largely Ignored
        
Inevitable, or in Limbo? A Dam for the Mekong

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (92%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FISHING LAW (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); FISHES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (78%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); SPORT FISHING (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); BEACHES (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); SHELLFISH FISHING (57%) ecosystems; fishing bans; Marine Life Protection Act; southern California; Kushner, David; Schwarzenegger, Arnold; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Lobsters; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; National Park Service; California; Laguna Beach (Calif); fisheries; Politics and Policy; wildlife

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (84%) National Park Service

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (88%); MIKE THOMPSON (58%) Kushner, David; Schwarzenegger, Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) California; Laguna Beach (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



538 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: New York Plans Bigger Recycling Effort

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: Long viewed as a laggard on the garbage front, the city plans to double the amount of waste that it diverts from landfills and place more recycling receptacles in public spaces. 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration has set a goal of doubling the amount of garbage it diverts from landfills over the next five years.
The plan, which is expected to be announced at 1 p.m. by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in his State of the City address on the campus of Morris High School in the Bronx, seems to reflect a deeper commitment to programs that encourage the reuse and prevention of waste, including the city's long-neglected residential recycling program. It calls for increasing the proportion of residential and other waste diverted from landfills to 30 percent by 2017 from 15 percent now. By meeting a target of 30 percent, the city would keep 550,000 tons of garbage out of landfills each year.
The city's Department of Sanitation currently sends three million tons of solid waste to landfills annually, administration officials said.
"If we're going to be the most innovative city in the world, we also have to be the greenest - because that's how you attract the most talented individuals and most forward-looking companies," Mayor Bloomberg is expected to say in his prepared remarks.

The plan envisions opening two sites this year to compost yard waste and revitalizing recycling from residences and institutions. The mayor will commit the city to expand recycling to include all rigid plastics, like yogurt cups and medicine bottles, by the summer of 2013, when a new recycling plant under construction in Brooklyn is expected to come online. The effort also calls for increasing the number of recycling receptacles in public spaces to 1,000 by 2014 from about 600 now.
Both types of recycling were included in legislation passed last year by the City Council. That measure required 1,000 public recycling bins by the year 2020 and directed the Sanitation Department to start taking rigid plastics for recycling if it was determined to be cost effective.
The efforts still fall far short of what many other American cities are doing, but environmentalists who have followed the New York's waste management over the years said they were cautiously optimistic. 
"It's encouraging to hear the mayor's personal commitment to issues that have not received the attention that they've deserved," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "As always, it's the details of the plan and the ability to implement them that's the challenge."
The city also envisions diverting waste by trying out new technologies to convert garbage into heat and electricity. Caswell Holloway, Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for operations, said the city would start soliciting proposals by next month for an installation in or near the city that could handle about 135,000 tons of waste a year.
Combined, the programs would help the city save $55 million of the $300 million it spends exporting garbage to out-of-state landfills by truck and rail. "This plan makes good economic sense," Mr. Holloway said.
City officials calculate that these efforts would reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with the transport and handling of solid waste by 7 percent by 2017. 

        
New York Plans Greener Zoning Rules
        
Hard Plastic Bottles, Reborn as a Bridge
        
In Pipeline Debate, Silent Environmentalists
        
New York, Recycling Reprobate, Aims to Do Better
        
A War Against Food Waste

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); WASTE REDUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); EMISSIONS (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%) landfills; Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City; recycling; rigid plastics; Bloomberg, Michael R; Recycling of Waste Materials; Sanitation Department (NYC); Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy; Recycling

ORGANIZATION: Sanitation Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



539 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Takes On Union With Education Proposals

BYLINE: DAVID W. CHEN and FERNANDA SANTOS


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bloomberg has built his legacy in large part on overhauling and improving the city's public schools. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, doubling down on his efforts to improve the city's long-troubled schools, on Thursday outlined a series of proposals to reward the best teachers and, in some cases, to replace others. 
Delivering his 11th and penultimate State of the City address, Mr. Bloomberg said he would take several steps to circumvent obstacles to his proposals posed by labor unions.
Follow more news on Mr. Bloomberg's speech on SchoolBook and on the Greenblog. 
Here are the highlights of his proposals:

        
ATTRACT HIGH-QUALITY TEACHERS The city would pay up to $25,000 in student loans amassed by college graduates who finish in the top quartile of their class and then teach in New York.
        
RETAIN TEACHERS Teachers who are rated "highly effective" for two consecutive years would receive a $20,000 raise per year. 
        
EVALUATE TEACHERS The city would form school-based committees to evaluate teachers based on their performance in the classroom. The contract allows up to 50 percent of the teachers to be replaced under this arrangement. For the city, it is a bid to reclaim roughly $60 million in federal grants for 33 struggling schools, which the state suspended because of the lack of an evaluation system for teachers and principals working in those schools. 
        
MORE SCHOOLS, MORE CHOICES The city would phase out another 25 schools this year and open 100 new schools - including 50 new charter schools - within the next two years.
        
COLLEGE AND CAREERS The city would open at least 12 new career and technical schools and programs over the next two years and will give extra money, from private sources, to help 40 schools that have shown success graduating young black and Latino men.
        
FINANCIAL AID Under a partnership with the Obama administration, the city would help high school graduates who would have qualified for federal financial aid, but did not apply, to turn in their applications.
In addition to his education proposals, Mr. Bloomberg vowed this year to push for an increase in the state's minimum wage, joining the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, in the effort. While Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire and staunch defender of capitalism, said the free market was "genius," he said that it was not perfect, and that setting a minimum high enough so people could make a living without an adverse economic impact was "a balancing act." And he noted, with a mix of frustration and envy, that Connecticut and Massachusetts, among others, had raised their minimum wages above federal levels.
As a result, he said in his prepared remarks: "Our city just cannot afford to wait for Washington. Not when it comes to illegal guns, not when it comes to climate change, not when it comes to creating jobs and not when it comes to raising the minimum wage."
Mr. Bloomberg also offered several new ideas for making the city a safer and easier place to navigate for bicyclists, pedestrians and drivers. He said he would double the number of 20-mile-per-hour zones for schools, and add miles of bike lanes, while deploying traffic enforcement agents to "safety hot spots at key intersections." He also said he would push to enforce a new measure requiring bicycle delivery riders to have the right safety equipment and uniforms identifying the name of their business.
He also talked, at some length, about several recycling initiatives. He promised to double the amount of residential waste diverted from landfills by 2017, and to make New York one of the first cities in the country to convert waste water into renewable energy.

        
Bloomberg Rolls Out Ad Attacking Thompson
        
City's Graduation Rates Improve
        
Children of Immigrants Are Focus of City-Backed Education Project
        
Opening Bell Rings for SchoolBook
        
Bloomberg Calls State Budget Deal an 'Outrage'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (76%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); JOB CREATION (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%) education; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; performance evaluations; Schools; teachers union; Bloomberg, Michael R; Education (K-12); Performance Evaluations (Labor); Teachers and School Employees; New York City; City Hall

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



540 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: In South Carolina, Romney Defends Bain Record

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney stopped by a motorcycle dealership in South Carolina Thursday morning, where he defended his record at Bain Capital and subtly touted his pro-life views. 

 BODY:
GREER, S.C. - Before jetting off for a quick trip to Florida, Mitt Romney stopped by a motorcycle dealership here Thursday morning, where he defended his record at Bain Capital, which has recently come under attack by his Republican rivals, and sought to subtly play up his pro-life credentials.
When asked at a post-event news conference about his career as a corporate buyout specialist, a topic that has come under scrutiny in South Carolina, where Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has focused in on two local companies that, under Bain's supervision, together laid off hundreds of workers, Mr. Romney said that his overall record was one of success. 
"There are a number of businesses that we helped start, which collectively, you can just look on their Web sites, added well over 100,000 jobs," Mr. Romney said, specifically citing Staples, Bright Horizons Children's Center, the Sports Authority, and Steel Dynamics. "And then the press has also reported on businesses that lost employment and that was a few thousand jobs that were lost. In each case where there was job loss, there was an effort on the part of the management team to try and preserve the business and to have a brighter future." 
He added: "The net of the two is pretty clearly well over 100,000 jobs, and the reality is in the private sector, that there are some businesses that are growing and thriving, and we were fortunate enough to be able to be part of that in a small way, and there's some businesses that have to be cut back in order to survive and try to make them stronger. And sometimes you're successful at that and sometimes you're not."
Still, referring to the two South Carolina companies that Mr. Perry has singled out for downsizing under Bain, Mr. Romney said that any job loss is "a tragedy."
"For the family, for the individual that loses a job, it's devastating," he said. "And every time that we invested in the business it was to try and encourage that business to have ongoing life." 
Mr. Romney also made a subtle appeal to voters here, who are known to be socially conservative, on the issue of life.
"The founders, in writing the Declaration of Independence, said that we had been endowed by our creator with certain unalienable rights, among them life - life - liberty and the pursuit of happiness," Mr. Romney said. (Speaking before a crowd in Columbia, S.C., on Wednesday night, Mr. Romney also stressed the word "life," in reference to the Declaration of Independence, repeating it three times.)
When asked about his emphasis on the word "life," a topic he had not overtly mentioned when campaigning in New Hampshire, Mr. Romney said that he felt confident the people of New England understand his conversion to the pro-life stance he currently holds. But, he added, it was a topic worth repeating here in South Carolina, where he expects his conservative credentials to come under assault. 
"I understand that there are some attack ads coming my way that question that," he said. "Obviously it's important for me to remind people that I'm pro life. "
But, as in most states, Mr. Romney kept his message focused largely on jobs and the economy. He said his message of economic turnaround is one that he expects will resonate with voters here, a state where he finished in fourth place four years ago.
"This is a time when people care about the economy and the scale of government," Mr. Romney said. "Four years ago, we were really focused on Iraq and what was happening there and the surge. And that was an area that really was in John McCain's wheelhouse. Now the economy is the issue people are most concerned about. That's in my wheelhouse." 
As Mr. Romney tried to make his exit, the press pointed to a black motorcycle with orange flames fanning up the side, and suggested he hop on for a quick spin. Mr. Romney, who said that one of his sons had owned a motorcycle, laughed and shook his head.
"And maybe put on a helmet," he joked. "Dukakis-style." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); ELECTIONS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (56%) Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; South Carolina; In South Carolina

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



541 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Sees 'Wealthy Institutions' Behind Bain Attacks Backlash

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich says the questions he is raising about Mitt Romney's stewardship of Bain are legitimate. 

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Amid calls from Republican leaders to back off criticism of Mitt Romney for deals he made at Bain Capital, Newt Gingrich defended the attacks and called on Mr. Romney to provide more details about corporate buyouts that led to bankruptcies.
He accused "extraordinarily wealthy institutions" of bringing pressure on him to rescind the criticism, and said they were telling him, "You'd better shut up.''
Jim DeMint, South Carolina's conservative Republican senator and a Tea Party favorite, called on Wednesday for an end to attacks on "free market principles." Rudolph W. Giuliani, appearing Thursday morning on Fox News, said, "What the hell are you doing, Newt?"
Mr. Gingrich sought to frame the issue as reflective of Mr. Romney's "judgment" and "decisions," in particular deals in which workers lost jobs and pensions while Bain investors profited.
"I've raised the question, which I think is a totally legitimate question - what about some companies that Bain took over that went bankrupt?'' Mr. Gingrich asked Greta Van Susteren of Fox on Wednesday night.
Mr. Gingrich is hoping that his anti-Wall Street theme will connect with a deep vein of economic populism in the South, including South Carolina, with its high unemployment and depressed housing market.
Speaking here at a convention of senior citizens, he portrayed the pressure on him to reverse course as coming from the establishment, both on Wall Street and elsewhere.
"I'm not going to back down or be afraid to say we the American people have the right to know, and any candidate for president has an obligation to tell us,'' he said.
"No one tells the American people they aren't allowed to learn what is going on in their very own country,'' he said.
The line drew cheers, but with Mr. Gingrich never mentioning Mr. Romney by name, it was unclear whether his audience was applauding an
anti-Bain message or a general attack on the roots of the financial crisis and the government's response.
Pat Pope, 80, said that she had been leaning toward Mr. Romney but that after hearing Mr. Gingrich she might switch allegiance.
But she said she was unfamiliar with the criticism of Mr. Romney's business career. She thought Mr. Gingrich had been referring to the Social Security trust fund, which he had mentioned at the beginning of his speech.
Told about Mr. Gingrich's Bain critique, Ms. Pope, who voted for Barack Obama on 2008, said, "That concerns me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%) DeMint, Jim; Gingrich, Newt; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Romney, Mitt; van Susteren, Greta; Presidential Election of 2012; Social Security (US); Unemployment; United States Politics and Government; Bain Capital; Fox News Channel; South Carolina; In South Carolina; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Fox News Channel

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); JIM DEMINT (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) DeMint, Jim; Gingrich, Newt; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Romney, Mitt; van Susteren, Greta

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



542 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
Although generals in Pakistan say they don't want to govern, the military keeps pulling the strings. No civilian government will ever succeed under these conditions.
Health care spending in the United States increased at the slowest rate in half a century in 2009 and 2010. It's too early to know whether the trend of slower growth will persist after the economy improves.
There's something disheartening about a cold woodstove, so Verlyn Klinkenborg lights his despite the mild weather.
Mitt Romney has flipped and flopped all over on immigration, but in allying himself with Kris Kobach, architect of the nation's most radical immigration crackdowns, he has lurched toward the extremist right.

        
Opinion Report: Supreme Health
        
Opinion Report: Donald Berwick Speaks Out
        
Healthcare: What Might Have Been
        
Opinion Report: The Egyptian Election
        
The Arizona Show

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TRENDS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%) health care reform; Immigration; Romney, Mitt; Immigration and Emigration

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012



543 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Behind an Army of Lobbyists, An Instant Force in Gambling

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
In the summer of 2009, a Malaysian billionaire took an unexpected interest in a small town in the Catskill Mountains in New York. With little notice, he bought a stake in a racetrack casino where the owners had struggled for more than a decade to develop a gambling complex.
It was the first move in a brash attempt by KT Lim, chairman of one of the world's largest gambling conglomerates, to muscle his way into the potentially lucrative American market. But Mr. Lim's company, Genting Berhad, did not go it alone.
First, Genting hired a lobbyist named John L. Cordo, who was once on the staff of the Republican majority in the New York Senate. Then, with the company rapidly expanding, it amassed a who's who of influential lobbyists.
Now, as Genting pursues multibillion-dollar projects in New York City at Aqueduct Racetrack and in Miami, its lobbying offers a primer on how a well-heeled newcomer can make up for its lack of experience and connections in the United States. 
Because casino gambling is highly regulated, the industry has long drawn swarms of lobbyists promising to help navigate state capitols. Casino gambling is banned in New York, with the exception of casinos on Indian land and electronic slot machines at nine racetracks. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has proposed legalizing the industry, though such a move would require action by the Legislature and a referendum.
Genting's lobbyists in New York, according to state lobbying records, include Patricia Lynch, a former top aide to the Democratic Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and Nicholas A. Spano, a former Republican state senator.
The company has also hired Jennifer Cunningham, a close friend of Mr. Cuomo's, to do public relations work and Bradley Tusk, who was Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign manager in 2009, to assist with planning.
Genting even created an advocacy group called the New York Gaming Association, which is led by another prominent lobbyist, James Featherstonhaugh.
Much of Genting's spending on advocacy does not have to be disclosed under New York law, but the company did report that it paid Mr. Cordo $195,000 in the first half of 2011. Genting's spending is believed to have increased sharply in recent months.
Christian Goode, a senior Genting executive on the New York and Miami projects, said in an interview that Genting had hired so many lobbyists in those locations because it wanted to participate in the political process ''like any other company.''
Mr. Goode declined to discuss the lobbyists' specific roles. ''We are a large multinational company with lots of exposure,'' he said. ''Things come up from time to time. We just want to make sure we're properly represented.''
Stefan Friedman of SKD Knickerbocker, a consulting firm working for Genting, said: ''We have a proactive agenda that includes building a $4 billion convention center and legalizing table gaming in New York, both of which will create tens of thousands of jobs and generate billions of dollars in economic revenue. We think those issues are important, and we know nothing comes without a lot of hard work.''
Genting's lobbying reflects its sizable ambitions and spending in New York. When a subsidiary won the license to open the first gambling hall in New York City, at the Aqueduct racetrack, with an offer of $380 million, it far outbid its rivals. It has since poured an additional $450 million into erecting the casino, which opened in October.
Until Genting took over, the state's 10-year effort to find a casino operator for Aqueduct had been hobbled by delays, missteps and political scandals. In 2010, the state inspector general determined that State Senate leaders had manipulated the process to give the contract in an earlier round of bidding to a company that had donated to Democratic candidates. Genting was not involved in that earlier bidding.
Because of that scandal, lobbyists in New York say they are advising gambling companies to avoid giving sizable campaign contributions to Albany politicians. Genting did not give large ones in the first half of 2011; filings for the second half are due next week.
Last week, Mr. Cuomo made Genting's plans for a $4 billion expansion at Aqueduct a central element of his economic development strategy. The expansion would include the country's largest convention center, three hotels with a total of 3,000 rooms, an entertainment center and room for additional electronic slot machines and table games.
Genting is following a similar approach in Florida as part of its strategy to conquer the American market.
The company popped up in Miami last May, announcing it would build the largest casino in the world on Biscayne Bay with 5,200 hotel rooms, a convention center, 50 restaurants, luxury shops and a rooftop lagoon.
The planned casino is not even legal yet, but Genting has spent more than $400 million on land, joined local civic associations, contributed $628,320 to Republicans and Democrats and hired two dozen lobbyists and public relations firms.
On Monday, a State Senate panel approved a bill that would allow for three megacasino resorts in southern Florida.
''Being a relatively unknown Asian company has not been an impediment for Genting in New York or Florida,'' said Grant Govertsen, a principal of the Union Gaming Group, a research firm. ''More than anything else these days, money talks.''
Gambling critics said Genting's ability to spend so lavishly on lobbying suggested how much the company stood to gain.
''They intend to soak so much money out of our community that spending millions on local and state government isn't much more than a rounding error,'' said Dan Gelber, a former federal prosecutor in Miami and the chairman of the No Casinos group in South Florida.
Genting boasts it has $5 billion in cash, at a time when most developers are unable to obtain financing for major projects. The family of Mr. Lim, the Genting chairman, has provided financing for Indian casinos in New York and Connecticut.
But in 2009, the family's real estate firm bought a stake in Monticello Raceway in the Catskills, 90 miles from Manhattan, seeking to build a Las Vegas-style casino for the St. Regis Mohawks. That effort ended with recriminations among the partners, although the Lims still own the electronic slot parlor there.
At Aqueduct, there have been no such missteps. Genting is promoting a plan to add hotels and a convention center that would capitalize on the site's proximity to two international airports and the ability to draw conventions that are too large for the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
But the lavish spending does not assure success in New York or Miami.
Across New York, there are now nine racetracks, including Aqueduct, where operators have installed electronic slot machines, and five Indian casinos, all outside New York City. Mr. Cuomo's proposal to legalize casino gambling would allow for poker, blackjack and other table games, as well as slot machines.
Mr. Goode, the Genting executive, said the company wanted the state to grant it exclusive gambling rights, regardless of whether live table games are approved, although he would not say whether he meant within New York City or in the region.
Genting also wants a substantially lower ''tax rate'' on gambling revenues for any additional machines at Aqueduct, he said.
Both of those proposals would require approval by the New York Legislature. Other gambling companies will surely resist the proposals and hire their own lobbyists to help fight them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Genting, led by KT Lim, left, won a license to open the first gambling hall in New York City with a $380 million offer and poured an additional $450 million into erecting it at the Aqueduct track. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HANS DERYK/REUTERS
 CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); GAMING (92%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MAYORS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); REFERENDUMS (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GENTING BHD (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); MALAYSIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



544 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Lipitor Are Leveling Off

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Sales of Lipitor, the biggest-selling drug in history, have leveled off after a steep plunge after the start of generic competition. New figures from the data firm IMS Health show that at the end of December, sales of Lipitor, made by Pfizer, were at just above 37 percent of market share. 
Two new generic versions came on the market at the beginning of December, and in the first full week of the month, they had siphoned off a combined 59 percent of sales. By the last week of December, atorvastatin pills from Ranbaxy Laboratories and the authorized generic from Watson Pharmaceuticals picked up only another 4 percent between them. Pfizer is fighting hard to retain sales, with big discounts to patients and insurers.
Lipitor lost patent protection in the United States on Nov. 30.
Pfizer has been offering patients discount cards that give some of them a $4 co-payment, which is less than the co-pay for all but the most popular generics, if they keep taking brand-name Lipitor rather than a generic version.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Associated Press article on Friday about sales of the cholesterol drug Lipitor referred imprecisely to a discount card that Pfizer is offering. While some patients will be able to get the drug with a $4 co-payment, not all will be eligible for such a discount because the card carries many restrictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (88%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PATENTS (52%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (84%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (83%); IMS HEALTH INC (58%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); RANBAXY (NSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012



545 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: It's the '60s; Detach Yourself

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

 BODY:
In a 1965 essay on postwar science-fiction films Susan Sontag noted a common ingredient: a ''depersonalization'' of the characters, a kind of emotionless zombie state that occurred when their minds were taken over by aliens or robots. Some of this, she wrote, reflected the basic conditions of modern life. But it also pointed toward something new in the nuclear era. Now humans had to contend not only with the fear of death but also the ''psychologically insupportable'' possibility of a ''collective incineration and extinction which could come at any time, virtually without warning.''
Art of the 1960s exhibited similar symptoms of depersonalization. Where anxiety and trauma sat on the surface of slashed, burned and dirt-crusted canvases from the 1940s and '50s, or in the emaciated forms of Giacometti's sculptures, by the late '50s the personal, existential and emotive were replaced by a new detachment. 
Two exhibitions drawn from the Guggenheim's collection show how differently this birth of cool could manifest itself. ''Pop Objects and Icons'' features paintings and sculptures composed with words, pictures and products drawn largely from advertising and mass-culture sources. ''Surface, Support, Process: The 1960s Monochrome'' takes the formalist approach, with art stripped to its bare essentials.
A quotation on the wall next to Andy Warhol's ''Orange Disaster #5'' -- a grid of 15 silk-screened photographs of an electric chair from 1963 -- sets the tone for the Pop exhibition. ''When you see a gruesome picture over and over again,'' Warhol said, ''it doesn't really have any effect.'' This, of course, from an artist whose persona -- an oeuvre in itself -- was built upon banal utterances and a demeanor suggesting that the whole being-taken-over-by-robots experience wasn't such a bad thing after all.
The same show includes a micro-retrospective of Roy Lichtenstein paintings: a 1962 canvas featuring the word ''In,'' taken from a supermarket entrance sign, and three later works that remake Cubism and Surrealism with Lichtenstein's signature in blown-up Benday dots. There are representative works by various artists, including a Robert Rauschenberg canvas combining silk-screened images of a radio-station building with gestural brush strokes that reference Abstract Expressionism; a John Chamberlain assemblage made from scuffed and dented automobile parts; a Claes Oldenburg soft sculpture of a pay telephone; and the British artist Richard Hamilton's fiberglass wall relief of Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim rotunda exterior. (Either the Guggenheim didn't collect much Pop Art by women, or none of it was included here.)
The works in ''Surface, Support, Process'' would generally be called Minimalist, although artists almost uniformly rejected that label. Here, along with the usual suspects in the monochrome canon, is a shimmering ''Light Painting'' (1971) by Mary Corse, made with glass microspheres distributed on a cream-colored canvas, and Tadaaki Kuwayama's carefully folded Japanese paper, flattened and mounted on board. Large, luminous, mostly white paintings by Robert Ryman fill a corner. A meditative, neutral-toned Agnes Martin grid hangs near monochrome works by Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Mangold and Brice Marden that tease the boundary between painting and sculpture.
California Minimalists tended to exhibit more humor and Pop elements in their work than their New York counterparts did. John McCracken's 1969 ''Blue Plank,'' a rectangular slab of plywood covered with blue polyester resin and fiberglass, suggests California surf culture as much as cerebral Minimalist geometry. (His interest in U.F.O.'s and cosmology, cited in the wall label, feels pointedly -- perhaps stereotypically -- West Coast.)
There are plenty of overlaps between Pop and '60s monochromes: the touch of the artist is often consciously removed, and there is an emphasis on repetition and serial composition, and a fascination with industrial materials and techniques. Most of this is spelled out in the wall labels.
But museums should come with labels too, given that their collections, which are often treated as objective and universally approved, are the results of highly biased decision making. Sontag, for her part, used science-fiction films to illustrate her ideas about midcentury depersonalization because the '60s artists she supported -- people like Jack Smith or Paul Thek -- didn't make cool, banal work. Instead they made experimental films, performances and installations that were often left out of American museum narratives.
And now that museums have become increasingly tied to corporate sponsorship -- or, in the case of the Guggenheim, become multinationals themselves -- this too affects our interpretation of art history. The wall label accompanying James Rosenquist's 1997 painting ''The Swimmer in the Econo-mist (painting 2)'' -- whose format looks a lot like his famous critique of American militarism and consumerism from 1964-65, ''F-111'' -- comes as a bit of a shock: The newer painting, we are told, was commissioned by Deutsche Bank in conjunction with the Guggenheim and celebrates the post-cold-war global economy, paying ''tribute to industrial growth and capitalism.''
This description certainly rings odd in the context not just of ''Pop Icons'' but also of the recent worldwide protests against corporate capitalism (not to mention a threatened boycott by a group of international artists of the Guggenheim's franchise under construction in Abu Dhabi over working conditions for laborers at the site, which was announced last March and was still in place last fall).
But this is just another reminder to stay alert when viewing art objects. Art history, like fiction, is very much a constructed narrative. The trick is to avoid letting it become a science fiction that takes you over and sends you down the spiraling ramp and out of the Guggenheim in a zombielike state.
''Pop Objects and Icons From the Guggenheim Collection'' and ''Surface, Support, Process: The 1960s Monochrome in the Guggenheim Collection'' run through Feb. 8 at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street; (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Orange Disaster #5,'' by Andy Warhol, a grid of 15 silk-screened photographs of an electric chair, from 1963. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR THE VISUAL ARTS, INC./ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK, SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, NEW YORK)
 ''Interior With Mirrored Wall'' (1991), by Roy Lichtenstein. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTATE OF ROY LICHTENSTEIN /SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



546 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Falling Oil Prices Help Buoy Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A drop in oil prices and strong bond auctions in Europe drove stocks to a slightly higher close Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for the fourth straight day.
Materials and industrial companies led the gains. Caterpillar and Alcoa rose the most in the Dow. Stocks drove higher in the last hour and a half of trading after oil prices dropped below $100 a barrel for the first time this year. Oil fell on rumors that Europe would delay an embargo on Iranian oil. Crude oil futures for March delivery settled down $1.78 to $99.31 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Also pushing stocks were strong bond auctions in Italy and Spain. European markets ended mostly higher after Italy and Spain held highly successful bond auctions, easing worries about Europe's debt crisis. Italy's benchmark stock index rose 2.1 percent. 
In Italy's first bond auction of the new year, the country was able to sell one-year bonds at a rate of just 2.735 percent, less than half the 5.95 percent rate it had to pay last month. That's a signal that investors are becoming more confident in Italy's ability to pay its debts.
Spain was able to raise double the amount of money it had sought to raise in its own bond sale as demand for its debt was strong. Both auctions were seen as important tests of investor sentiment.
Investors have been worried that Italy and Spain, the third- and fourth-largest countries in the euro area, might be dragged into the region's debt crisis. Greece, Ireland and Portugal have been forced to get relief from their lenders after their borrowing costs spiked to levels the countries could no longer afford.
The euro rose nearly a penny against the dollar, to $1.28, as worries eased about Europe's financial woes. The currency, which is shared by 17 European Union countries, fell to a 16-month low against the dollar the day before. An auction of 30-year United States Treasury bonds drew meager interest from investors as cash flowed back into European debt.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to end at 12,471.02. It was down most of the day, losing 64 points in the first hour of trading, following a rise in unemployment claims and a weak report on December retail sales.
The S.& P. 500 finished up 3.02 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,295.50. The Nasdaq composite rose 13.94 points, 0.5 percent, to 2,724.70.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 6/32, to 100 21/32. The yield rose to 1.93 percent, from 1.91 percent late Wednesday.
It was the latest day of quiet trading in the stock market. There have been six consecutive days with moves of less than 1 percent in the S.& P. 500.
Ralph Fogel, investment strategist and partner at Fogel Neale Partners in New York, said the moderate moves were an encouraging sign after the steep rises and sudden declines that were typical of last summer. ''This is a much healthier market than we've seen,'' he said.
Unemployment benefits spiked last week to the highest level in six weeks, mostly because companies let go of thousands of holiday hires, the government reported. Retail sales barely rose in December and were lower than analysts were expecting.
Despite the mixed news on the economy, investors are starting to focus on the corporate earnings season, which got under way this week after Alcoa, the aluminum maker, predicted stronger demand for its products and surprised the market with higher revenue than analysts expected.
''There's a fair amount of pessimism out there but I also think that investors are slowly becoming immune to the bad news,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''As long as the stuff you can sink your teeth into, like corporate profit, is improving, I think it bodes well for the markets this year.''
Chevron fell 2.6 percent after the world's second-largest publicly traded oil company said its income would be ''significantly'' below its fourth-quarter results in the prior quarter because of narrower margins on refining and selling fuels.
The business software company CA Inc. jumped 4.2 percent after the hedge fund Taconic Capital disclosed in a regulatory filing that it has taken a 5.1 percent stake. It also said it was pressing CA to return more cash to shareholders and increase its profit margins.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); EURO (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); EURO ZONE (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); DEBT NOTES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); ITALY (95%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (73%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



547 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Stresses of Middle Age

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Get a Midlife'' (news analysis, Sunday Review, Jan. 8): 
As a 60-plus-year-old woman, I should be gratified to learn that I can cease obsessing over my thickening waistline and instead delight in my strengthened psychological resilience. But I am also a medical sociologist conducting a study financed by the National Institutes of Health that demonstrates high levels of psychological distress and problematic drinking linked to the enduring effects of the Great Recession.
Moreover, Tara Siegel Bernard (Your Money column, Jan. 7) has highlighted the daunting financial problems faced by middle-aged men and women who suffer from job losses, home foreclosures or declining home values and loss of expected retirement income, among other stressors (''Laid Off, With Retirement Almost in Sight'').
Thus, your rosy depiction of the middle decades sadly would not resonate with those people struggling to survive our enduring national economic crisis. Perhaps many people identified with the uplifting image of middle age presented in the 2003 film ''Something's Gotta Give,'' as I did, but Occupy Wall Street seems to have greater salience at present.
JUDITH A. RICHMAN Chicago, Jan. 8, 2012
The writer is a professor of epidemiology in psychiatry at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); FORECLOSURE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



548 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: GTT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI. 
mhoinski@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
BEAUMONT
Boomtown Reprise
The Lucas oil derrick at Spindletop spewed glorious black rain into the sky in 1901, bringing this country into the 20th century and giving Texas major bargaining power in the new economy. ''Spindletop changed the face of oil production in the U.S.,'' said Mark Osborne, director of the Spindletop-Gladys City Boomtown Museum. ''It produced more oil than anywhere in the world -- 80,000 to 100,000 barrels a day.''
The museum is set in a fictional Gladys City modeled after the ''perfect industrial city'' from which the good fortune flowed. It hosts the annual Lucas Gusher Celebration, centered on a re-enactment of the monumental discharge, involving a 65-foot-tall replica derrick that shoots water upward of 100 feet. 
This year, a fleet of classic cars will be part of the festivities. ''We're recognizing the impact Spindletop had on transportation,'' Mr. Osborne said. ''Soon after this big oil find, Henry Ford came out with the Model T.''
Sure, but this day is all about feeling the thrill of striking pay dirt.
Spindletop-Gladys City Boomtown Museum, Jan. 14, 10 a.m. spindletop.org
AUSTIN
Music Fit for Texas
Shawn Colvin and Lyle Lovett, two Texas singer-songwriters of slim stature, seem to share an obsession with weight. Ms. Colvin's second album, ''Fat City,'' was released in 1992, and two years later, Mr. Lovett recorded the song ''Fat Babies,'' in which he sings: ''Fat babies make me sick / Fat babies make me ill / All that fat baby drooling / And that fat baby smell.''
Perhaps this is why Ms. Colvin and Mr. Lovett have joined forces to perform a benefit concert for Marathon Kids, an organization dedicated to children's fitness. This is especially important in Texas, which consistently ranks as one of the most obese states.
But don't expect the aforementioned tongue-in-cheek song and dance. Instead, count on Ms. Colvin and Mr. Lovett to perform some of the finest songcraft Texas has to offer, both as individual musicians and as a duo on potential covers of the likes of Buddy Holly and Bob Wills.
The Paramount Theatre, Jan. 13, 8 p.m. austintheatre.org
DALLAS
Delving Into Diasporas
Isabel Wilkerson, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, thinks immigration from Mexico to Texas is analogous to the Great Migration of African-Americans from the South following the abolition of slavery. Ms. Wilkerson will expound on this theory as the keynote speaker at the Seventh Annual Martin Luther King Jr. Symposium, using as evidence her heralded book, ''The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration.''
It took 15 years for her to write the book, and she interviewed 1,200 people in addition to recreating the road trip from Louisiana to California that was taken by one of her real-life protagonists who was escaping the Jim Crow caste system. Ms. Wilkerson preaches peaceful coexistence, as Dr. King did, and emphasizes compassion for the displaced. ''The book is a universal human story,'' Ms. Wilkerson said. ''Everybody has to cross something to get here, whether it's the Atlantic or Pacific or Rio Grande.''
Regardless of your views on immigration, almost everyone can use a refresher course on America's history and our ancestors' quest for a better life.
Winspear Opera House, Jan. 16, 7 p.m. dallasinstitute.org
SAN MARCOS
The Reality of Fantasy
Rick Riordan used his first rejection letter from a publisher, received when he was 13, as motivation to become a best-selling author. The suppression of the San Antonio native's voice surfaced in the good-versus-evil archetype employed in his future works.
Roughly three decades later, in 2005, Mr. Riordan issued his most compelling example of this struggle in the form of the first book in the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series, wherein Percy, a dyslexic 12-year-old boy with attention-deficit disorder, overcomes great odds to slay mythological creatures.
These young-adult fantasy works will be the focus of Rick Riordan's World of Myth and Mystery, an exhibition of the Riordan Collection, which the Wittliff Collections has been archiving since 2004. See the behind-the-scenes machinations of this persevering imagination, plus the original sword wielded by Percy in the movie adaptation of ''The Lightning Thief.''
Texas State University, Jan. 17-July 15, 8 a.m. thewittliffcollections.txstate.edu
DALLAS
The Big Giant
The Dallas Theater Center promises that its production of ''Giant,'' led by the three-time Tony-nominated director Michael Greif, will be its biggest yet, and that should make you curious about the ways they will convey Jett's gusher, Bick's manse and the vastness of the landscape.
Wyly Theatre, Jan. 18-Feb. 19, various times. dallastheatercenter.org
AUSTIN
Permanent Record
Before you go off to the nearest tattoo parlor and get some regrettable ink from a random slinger, attend the Star of Texas Tattoo Art Revival, where you can spend all weekend vetting the best of the best before marking yourself for life.
Palmer Events Center, Jan. 13-15, noon. golivefast.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Compare body art, or enter the Tattoo of the Day contest, at the Star of Texas Tattoo Art Revival in Austin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM T. FRASER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (87%); MUSIC (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); WRITERS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); SONG WRITING (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); OBESITY (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); SLAVERY (62%); IMMIGRATION (60%); EATING DISORDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



549 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Selig, Soon to Be Oldest Commissioner, Keeps Keys to Shop

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
The first baseball commissioner, Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, died in office in November 1944. He was 78 years and 5 days old. None of his eight successors has served at that age.
This August, Bud Selig will pass Landis to officially become the sport's oldest commissioner. Selig, in fact, was born before his three immediate predecessors, Peter Ueberroth, Bart Giamatti and Fay Vincent. He will not retire anytime soon.
On Thursday, Major League Baseball announced that Selig had accepted a two-year contract extension that will take him through 2014, when he will be 80 years old. Perhaps a hot dog a day -- Selig's lunch routine during the season, always with a Diet Coke, from Gilles Frozen Custard stand in Milwaukee -- has kept him vigorous enough to continue, despite many statements to the contrary. 
''Well, I'm not making any more projections on the future,'' Selig said by telephone, taking a short break during the owners' meetings in Arizona. ''I'm just really looking forward to it, and we've got a lot of work to do.''
For a game wrapped so tightly in tradition, there is something charming about an ageless commissioner minding the shop. Last September, when Ryan Braun homered to propel the Brewers to a division title, Selig excitedly compared it to a pennant-winning blast by Hank Aaron for the Milwaukee Braves in 1957.
Selig was a fan then, but by 1970 he was the rookie owner of the Brewers. At his first league meeting with Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, he sat nervously with two barons of the game: Philip K. Wrigley of the Chicago Cubs and Gussie Busch of the St. Louis Cardinals. His mentor, John Fetzer of the Detroit Tigers, looked on.
''Bowie said, 'I'm putting you between Mr. Wrigley and Mr. Busch,' '' Selig recalled last April. ''Mr. Fetzer was off to the side, saying, 'It's all right.'
''Mr. Wrigley was a very quiet, really wonderful man, and I liked Mr. Busch, too.''
Selig can go on and on about Williams and DiMaggio, Musial and Mays, Robinson and Koufax. He has a special fondness for his strong Brewers teams (there were a few) in the 1980s, and he watches the modern game by flipping among various television feeds every night at home.
He is richly compensated for his work; various reports have said Selig earns about $18 million a year. Yet the real motivation to continue, Selig said, came from his fellow owners, the ones he has finally rallied, after decades of conflicting self-interest, to a common cause of industry growth.
''I had been hearing people tell me there was a real groundswell, but one or two months ago, I hadn't changed my mind,'' Selig said. ''But I guess the thing that did it was the feeling that this was in the best interests of baseball. People saying, 'Please, you've got to do this' -- it was so consistent, one person after another. I guess about a week ago, I finally decided that if they really feel that way, with that much emotion and intensity, I really should think about doing this.''
In 1992, when Selig took over after the ousting of Vincent, baseball generated $1.2 billion in revenue. Last year, the figure was $7 billion. Selig likes to talk about that, and advancements like the wild card, interleague play, drug testing and the World Baseball Classic.
''In '92, when I took over, things were so bleak, so abysmal,'' Selig said. ''And to think where we are today as a sport, between labor peace and the network and all the new ballparks, revenue sharing, the new economic system -- I like to be able to dream about things, but you couldn't have dreamed this would happen. The sport has never been healthier.''
Early in Selig's tenure, there were plenty of missteps, especially the 1994 strike and the rise of unchecked steroid use. The 1998 expansion to 30 teams, without enough truly viable markets, still stings. The Oakland Athletics and the Tampa Bay Rays have made little progress toward the ballparks they need. Selig's committee to study the Oakland issue has been stalled for years, trying to untangle a dispute over territorial rights with the San Francisco Giants.
''They just made a very objective status report,'' Selig said. ''I'm working with both clubs to step up the process. We'll deal with it.''
The steroids cloud continues to hover. Aaron did not test positive for performance-enhancing drugs, as Braun did, in the aftermath of his memorable home run. But Selig advocated for the Mitchell report in 2007 -- a painful, if incomplete, self-exam no other sport has performed -- and his league is the only one in this country with blood testing for human growth hormone.
It is a clever trick for a man pushing 80, turning a business once notoriously slow to adapt into an agent of change. Selig, who remembers the past so well, barrels ahead to the future.
''I'm going into my on-field committee meeting now,'' he said Thursday, at the end of a quick interview, ''to talk about more changes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bud Selig, 77, has received a contract extension and will remain commissioner through 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CONNORS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FROZEN DESSERTS (69%); FROZEN FOODS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



550 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 699 words

PERSON: Bill Janklow 

HEADLINE: Bill Janklow, 72, a Four-Term Governor of South Dakota

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Bill Janklow, a four-term governor of South Dakota with a colorful and brash persona whose political career ended abruptly when, as a congressman, he was convicted of manslaughter for killing a motorcyclist while speeding, died on Thursday in Sioux Falls, S.D. He was 72.
The cause was brain cancer, said Marshall Damgaard, a former aide. 
Mr. Janklow, a Republican who served as governor from 1979 to 1986 and then from 1995 to 2002, had an outsize persona, whether pushing his legislative agenda or rushing to disasters.
He underscored that image when he appeared before South Dakota's Supreme Court to get his law license back in 2005 after it had been revoked upon his manslaughter conviction in 2003.
Mr. Janklow expressed remorse over the death he had caused, but he told the court that he had often had to drive fast while governor, rushing to fires, floods and, on at least one occasion, the site of a tornado.
''I was a hero for getting there in a hurry,'' The Associated Press quoted him as telling the court. ''When I got blown off the road in a tornado going to Spencer, people complimented me.''
As state attorney general, he once carried a rifle to the scene of a hostage crisis in the Capitol. He brought it to aid the police, he was reported as saying. The hostages managed to escape.
''He's bigger than life here in South Dakota,'' William D. Richardson, a professor at the University of South Dakota, once said in an interview. ''He has been treated as the mayor of the state, someone who is always first on the scene, taking charge.''
Mr. Janklow fought for limited regulation of business to attract jobs, and he liked to contrast that stance with Minnesota's more restrictive economic environment, with his usual humorous jabs.
''Rudy Perpich is the best economic development director that South Dakota ever had,'' The Star-Tribune of Minneapolis once quoted him as tweaking Minnesota's Democratic governor.
Mr. Janklow got state interest laws changed to attract credit card company offices, brought rail service to bolster economic development and promoted enhanced Internet capabilities in schoolrooms.
William John Janklow was born on Sept. 13, 1939, in Chicago. After his father died, his mother moved the family to her hometown, Flandreau, S.D. He earned bachelor's and law degrees from the University of South Dakota in the 1960s.
Mr. Janklow represented clients on an Indian reservation and was state attorney general before being elected governor. He served two four-year terms, returned to law practice when prohibited from running for a third consecutive term, and then returned to win another two terms.
He was elected to Congress in 2002. In August 2003, he was driving south of Flandreau in his Cadillac, going more than 70 miles an hour, according to police, in a 55-mile-an-hour zone, when he went through a stop sign and hit a motorcyclist, Randolph Scott, 55.
At his trial, Mr. Janklow said he had no memory of the accident. His lawyers, noting that he had diabetes, made an unsuccessful argument that he might have been disoriented by low blood sugar. He resigned from Congress in January 2004, a month after his conviction.
He was cited four times for speeding after regaining his driving privileges in 2007, pleading guilty and receiving fines, The Daily Republic of Mitchell, S.D., reported in August 2011.
Mr. Janklow is survived by his wife, Mary Dean Janklow; his son, Russell; his daughters, Pam Derheim and Shonna Haugen; his mother, LouElla; his sister, Joann Lind; his brother, Art; and five grandchildren.
In November, when Mr. Janklow announced that he had terminal cancer, he summed up his style: ''I was probably as outspoken and opinionated and strong-willed as anybody.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Friday about Bill Janklow, the former congressman and governor of South Dakota whose political career ended when he was convicted of manslaughter for killing a motorcyclist while speeding, misstated part of the name of the newspaper in Mitchell, S.D., that reported on his later citations for speeding. It is The Daily Republic, not The Daily Record.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Gov. Bill Janklow leaving jail in Sioux Falls, S.D., in 2004, after finishing a 100-day sentence for manslaughter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG DREYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MANSLAUGHTER (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEATHS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (74%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (63%); CREDIT CARDS (63%); JOB CREATION (62%); CANCER (57%); BRAIN CANCER (57%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH DAKOTA SUPREME COURT (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (88%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (98%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012



551 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: A Woman's Struggles Unleash Memories of Trauma

BYLINE: By MATHEW R. WARREN

 BODY:
For almost 30 years, Brendaly Moczo had a strategy for dealing with life's darkest moments and the memories and emotions they evoked.
''I just put everything in a drawer and I kept trying to live my life,'' Ms. Moczo, 44, said.
When she was growing up in Bayamon, in Puerto Rico, she thought her stepfather was a lawyer. Instead, Ms. Moczo said, she discovered he was a drug dealer. When she was 15, a partner in her stepfather's illicit business picked her up at school, drove her to an abandoned lot and raped her, she said.
Scared and ashamed, she told no one. She later learned that her stepfather and her abuser had been in a dispute, and she believed that the attack was an act of revenge.
A week later, an uncle woke her up in the middle of the night and rushed her, her mother and her two siblings to the airport to board a flight to New York. Upon their arrival, her mother broke the news: her stepfather had been murdered, and his enemies wanted to kill his family. 
Terrified, and coping with a new environment, Ms. Moczo locked away thoughts of the trauma that had upended her life.
Ms. Moczo and her family settled in East Harlem, where she labored to teach herself English, though she never enrolled in high school. She took a job as a supermarket cashier, and at 23, received a high school equivalency diploma. She later found work as a teacher's aide in a Head Start program in Harlem.
Ms. Moczo said that she did not have a boyfriend until she was 24 and that they later broke up.
A few years later, a co-worker introduced her to the co-worker's brother. A romance ensued, and the couple married. Soon after, they had their first child, a girl. But the infant died days after she was born, from a blood disorder, said Ms. Moczo, who filed away the pain.
The couple had two more children, Manuel, now 9, and, Nikaury, 7.
Over the years, Ms. Moczo said, her relationship with her husband soured, and she received an order of protection against him. He moved out last winter and filed for divorce.
When her marriage collapsed, Ms. Moczo said, an overwhelming depression descended on her. ''I would cry, and I didn't want to in front of the children, but sometimes you can't help it,'' she said. ''I would just want to sit on the sofa. I didn't want to move; I just wanted silence.''
At the time, Ms. Moczo was attending Boricua College in Manhattan, pursing a degree in human services while working part-time assisting developmentally disabled adults. When the paralyzing depression caused her to miss too many days of work, she lost her job.
Ms. Moczo says she does not receive financial support from her ex-husband, an unemployed electrician, and fell behind on rent on her family's two-bedroom apartment in the Melrose section of the Bronx. She pays $321 a month, with the rest covered by the Section 8 subsidy program. Forced to depend solely on $494.50 a month in unemployment benefits, Ms. Moczo fell further behind, and was soon facing eviction.
In March, the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, enrolled Ms. Moczo and her children in the agency's Preventive Services Program, which offers families support in an effort to keep children from having to enter foster care. The agency drew $1,491 from the fund to help Ms. Moczo pay her back rent. She has also begun receiving $124 in public assistance and $316 in food stamps every month. She and her children attend weekly therapy sessions through the agency.
''The Children's Aid Society are the ones who held me; they picked me up when I was on the ground,'' Ms. Moczo said. ''I feel much, much better. I have my ups and downs, but they always put me back on track.''
Dealing with a difficult divorce after 11 years of marriage and struggling to support their two children on her own somehow helped her break free of the pain she had bottled up all those years, Ms. Moczo said.
''Facing the world, raising two kids by myself, it made me let go,'' said Ms. Moczo, who learned last year that she had late-onset post-traumatic-stress disorder. ''In 2011, everything came out.''
Now, Ms. Moczo is continuing with her schooling and is one semester away from obtaining a degree. Her depression is under control, and she hopes to return to work soon.
''I want my children to see me the way I used to be,'' she said, ''working and being able to give them what they need.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brendaly Moczo with her children, Nickaury, left, and Manuel. Ms. Moczo has faced depression, divorce and the loss of a job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $5,544,083 Recorded Monday 433,960 Total $5,978,043 Last year to date $5,563,717 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEPPARENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); PARALYSIS (71%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (70%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (66%); DISMISSALS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%); BLOOD DISORDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



552 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CARPETBAGGER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Developer Sues Sundance Over Description of Film

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - It's not unusual for the subjects of documentaries to dislike what they see on screen, sometimes resorting to defamation lawsuits. A Florida time-share developer, David Siegel, is taking the unusual step of suing not over the content of a film about his family but over a written description of it. 
Mr. Siegel, a focus of ''The Queen of Versailles,'' about his construction of a 90,000-square-foot megamansion and close encounter with the recession, has filed a defamation suit in United States District Court in Orlando, Fla., against the Sundance Institute, the film's director, Lauren Greenfield, and her husband. At issue is a description of the film in a Sundance-issued news release in November.
In announcing its 2012 festival lineup, Sundance described ''The Queen of Versailles,'' which will play opening night on Jan. 19, as a look at the Siegel family as ''their time-share empire collapses and their house is foreclosed,'' going to say, ''Their rags-to-riches-to-rags story reveals the innate virtues and flaws of the American dream.'' Mr. Siegel, according to the lawsuit, filed Tuesday, contacted Sundance, Ms. Greenfield and her husband, the producer Frank Evers, to object; Sundance revised the description to say, ''their timeshare empire falters due to the economic crisis'' and removed the foreclosed bit, which was not true. It left rags-to-riches-to-rags. Mr. Evers contacted media outlets that had published the information, including The New York Times, to ask that it be revised. (The Times complied.)
But Mr. Siegel contends in the lawsuit that the damage was done, with over 12,000 Web sites picking up the original description. His suit, which seeks $75,000 from the Institute and $75,000 from the filmmakers, says that their ''continued campaign and proliferation of false and defamatory statements'' are ''motivated by ill will and malice, and at the very least with a reckless disregard for the truth.''
A spokesman for the filmmakers said they had no comment. Sundance issued the following statement: ''Sundance Institute maintains its long-held and firm commitment to freedom of expression and looks forward to screening this film by an award-winning filmmaker.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (61%); FESTIVALS (54%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



553 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: America Isn't a Corporation

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''And greed -- you mark my words -- will not only save Teldar Paper, but that other malfunctioning corporation called the U.S.A.''
That's how the fictional Gordon Gekko finished his famous ''Greed is good'' speech in the 1987 film ''Wall Street.'' In the movie, Gekko got his comeuppance. But in real life, Gekkoism triumphed, and policy based on the notion that greed is good is a major reason why income has grown so much more rapidly for the richest 1 percent than for the middle class.
Today, however, let's focus on the rest of that sentence, which compares America to a corporation. This, too, is an idea that has been widely accepted. And it's the main plank of Mitt Romney's case that he should be president: In effect, he is asserting that what we need to fix our ailing economy is someone who has been successful in business. 
In so doing, he has, of course, invited close scrutiny of his business career. And it turns out that there is at least a whiff of Gordon Gekko in his time at Bain Capital, a private equity firm; he was a buyer and seller of businesses, often to the detriment of their employees, rather than someone who ran companies for the long haul. (Also, when will he release his tax returns?) Nor has he helped his credibility by making untenable claims about his role as a ''job creator.''
But there's a deeper problem in the whole notion that what this nation needs is a successful businessman as president: America is not, in fact, a corporation. Making good economic policy isn't at all like maximizing corporate profits. And businessmen -- even great businessmen -- do not, in general, have any special insights into what it takes to achieve economic recovery.
Why isn't a national economy like a corporation? For one thing, there's no simple bottom line. For another, the economy is vastly more complex than even the largest private company.
Most relevant for our current situation, however, is the point that even giant corporations sell the great bulk of what they produce to other people, not to their own employees -- whereas even small countries sell most of what they produce to themselves, and big countries like America are overwhelmingly their own main customers.
Yes, there's a global economy. But six out of seven American workers are employed in service industries, which are largely insulated from international competition, and even our manufacturers sell much of their production to the domestic market.
And the fact that we mostly sell to ourselves makes an enormous difference when you think about policy.
Consider what happens when a business engages in ruthless cost-cutting. From the point of view of the firm's owners (though not its workers), the more costs that are cut, the better. Any dollars taken off the cost side of the balance sheet are added to the bottom line.
But the story is very different when a government slashes spending in the face of a depressed economy. Look at Greece, Spain, and Ireland, all of which have adopted harsh austerity policies. In each case, unemployment soared, because cuts in government spending mainly hit domestic producers. And, in each case, the reduction in budget deficits was much less than expected, because tax receipts fell as output and employment collapsed.
Now, to be fair, being a career politician isn't necessarily a better preparation for managing economic policy than being a businessman. But Mr. Romney is the one claiming that his career makes him especially suited for the presidency. Did I mention that the last businessman to live in the White House was a guy named Herbert Hoover? (Unless you count former President George W. Bush.)
And there's also the question of whether Mr. Romney understands the difference between running a business and managing an economy.
Like many observers, I was somewhat startled by his latest defense of his record at Bain -- namely, that he did the same thing the Obama administration did when it bailed out the auto industry, laying off workers in the process. One might think that Mr. Romney would rather not talk about a highly successful policy that just about everyone in the Republican Party, including him, denounced at the time.
But what really struck me was how Mr. Romney characterized President Obama's actions: ''He did it to try to save the business.'' No, he didn't; he did it to save the industry, and thereby to save jobs that would otherwise have been lost, deepening America's slump. Does Mr. Romney understand the distinction?
America certainly needs better economic policies than it has right now -- and while most of the blame for poor policies belongs to Republicans and their scorched-earth opposition to anything constructive, the president has made some important mistakes. But we're not going to get better policies if the man sitting in the Oval Office next year sees his job as being that of engineering a leveraged buyout of America Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); GLOBALIZATION (63%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



554 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A Wintry Mix of Opinions On a Season's Missing Snow

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; Alison Leigh Cowan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Where is the snow? That is the question swirling -- unlike actual flurries -- across New York City and its suburbs, where sidewalks have been relentlessly gray and yards stubbornly green this winter. After a decade of higher-than-average snowfalls, including last year's snowiest January ever, nary a flake has fallen since the freak October storm.
The lack of wintry precipitation comes as a relief to many -- no lost power, no snarled commutes, no lagoons of slush. The city, too, is saving on salt and overtime. But for others, the absence has upset the rhythms of the season, stealing the sense of giddiness and grace that accompanies a robust snow. And in what might be thought of as the snow-based sector of the economy -- hardware stores, ski shops, snow-plow services, even corner shoeshine stands -- the drought has been exceptionally bad for business.
Making it even worse: After the generous helping of snow last winter -- at 61.9 inches, more than double the annual average for the city -- some businesses increased their inventories of snow-related merchandise. 
Polstein's Home Center in Brooklyn ordered 20 percent more of everything -- shovels, salt, snowbrushes, snow blowers, sleds and saucers. Justo Martinez, the manager, is buried under 1,200 shovels on the floor and another 8,000 in storage. He just cut $100 from the price tag of a $299 snowblower. ''That's practically cost,'' he said.
Don Ward, who runs a shoeshine stand at Avenue of the Americas and 47th Street, has watched the sky wistfully. ''Snow brings up my bottom line,'' he said, explaining that revenue rises 20 percent to 50 percent just after a storm. ''Salt does something terrible to shoes, so when there's a snowstorm, it's a win-win.''
In the Bronx, Steve Owens, the owner of Able Snow Patrol, oversees a currently idle fleet of snow plows and each morning curses the forecast. ''This has been a very slow start for us,'' he said. ''We have a lot of anxious drivers sitting at home who want to get out and make money. They get paid by the inch.''
Beyond any economic fallout, there is the ineffable snow-borne lightness that many across the New York region miss. Schoolchildren -- and teachers -- wondering when the next snow day will come. Alternate-side-of-the-street parkers, spoiled by the 17-day suspension last winter, looking for a break. Harried residents longing for the stillness that descends with the snow.
''It makes New York more magical,'' said Teddy Schiff, an Upper East Side real estate developer.
The winter is still young, of course. On Thursday, the rain that hit the city was mixed with snow farther north; the Adirondacks got several inches, though that was little solace for the snow-starved here, many of whom would probably be surprised to learn that even if Central Park does not see another flurry, this winter will not break any records. The 2.9 inches that fell during the October storm already surpassed the accumulation for the winter of 1972-73, which logged just 2.8 inches.
Still, compared with the past 15 years, this winter is shaping up to be particularly skimpy, snow-wise. The past decade was the first, since weather records have been kept, that New York City had four consecutive years with at least 40 inches of snow. The record for annual snowfall was set in 1995-96, with 75.6 inches.
''The recent past in New York City has been characterized by unusually great snowfalls, although this year things are evening out,'' said Fred Gadomski, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. ''This is how we end up with averages. Some years, there's a blockbuster amount of snow and other years, it just doesn't happen.
''But,'' he warned, ''it's only mid-January.''
For city officials, the absence of snow is a balm. The Sanitation Department has a current snow-removal budget of $42.8 million, which covers the cost of salt, overtime and equipment repairs. Last winter, the city had run through half that amount by mid-January; so far this year, it has used about 5 percent.
Any money left at the end of the season goes back into the general fund. ''For the city, it's a life saver,'' said John J. Doherty, the sanitation commissioner. ''It's great to get a year like this once in a while.''
The city has 250,000 tons of salt available in the event the weather takes a turn. Late last winter, the department made two emergency purchases of rock salt totaling $6.3 million to replenish its stores.
The city's parks are also prepared for snow when, or if, it comes. Hundreds of hay bales dot Riverside Park in Manhattan, ready to prevent sledders from crashing into lampposts and trees. And the parks department stands ready to provide its traditional free hot chocolate on snowy days -- 2,500 cups, on average -- in several parks.
''It becomes more of a party, and we hand out extra sleds,'' said John Herrold, president of the Riverside Park Fund. ''I hope we have at least one snow day.''
Not everyone feels that way, of course. Anne Asanovic, a secretary in Midtown who commutes 108 miles by bus daily from her home in the Poconos, has not regretted the scarcity of snow for a minute, having missed six days of work last winter. ''I feel terrific that there's no snow,'' she said.
Same for Tony Backos, a lawyer who lives in Greenwich, Conn. During one snow storm last year, he and his family lost power for four days. ''I wouldn't mind if we didn't have any snow for the rest of the winter,'' he said.
Do not tell that to the folks at the Bronx Zoo, where staff members are eager to see their cold-loving charges -- Siberian tigers, snow leopards and polar bears, to name a few -- in their natural element.
''Some species clearly enjoy it when it snows,'' said Patrick R. Thomas, the zoo's general curator and associate director. ''Our tigers are more active and playful in the snow, and the polar bears slide across it. They just exhibit what we would consider joyful behaviors.''
If joy and parking can inhabit the same space, New Yorkers who are liberated from alternate-side-of-the-street parking rules by snowfall have been there -- just not this winter.
The humorist Calvin Trillin wrote a novel, ''Tepper Isn't Going Out,'' about a man who spends his days hunting for the perfect Manhattan parking spot. Though Mr. Trillin now enjoys the luxury of a garage, he still empathizes with the alternate-siders.
Getting respite from the tyranny of alternate side, he said, ''is a wonderful New York thing.'' For the die-hard parkers, he added, a winter without a snow suspension would feel as if ''Christmas was canceled.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of an Upper East Side real estate developer. He is Teddy Schiff, not Shiff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Justo Martinez, manager of Polstein's Home Center in Brooklyn, ordered extra items for this winter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Central Park, January 2012
 Central Park, January 2011 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: An Absence of Snow Doesn't Always Stick: Over the past century, New York City has experienced 13 winters with an inch or less of snow before Jan. 13, but many of them saw a high level of snow on the ground at some point during the rest of the season. (Source: National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); OCEANOGRAPHY (74%); HOME CENTERS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); HARDWARE STORES (68%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



555 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Retired? Not Exactly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''A Good Job,'' by Tina Rosenberg (Fixes, Sunday Review, Jan. 8): 
ReServe is a marvelous solution to the problem of how to find challenging and valued work for older ''retired'' folks, and how nonprofits can afford the expert help they may need. ReServe, for many years centered on New York City, is now expanding into other urban areas.
Having done work, both short term and long term, for four quite different nonprofits and charities through ReServe over the last four years, I can attest to the fact how four years ago, an 80-year-old, for obvious reasons unemployable in the private sector, discouraged and depressed, not only could revive his spirit, his enthusiasm, his passion, but also become again a useful, productive and valued contributor to society.
GEORGE WOLF New York, Jan. 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



556 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Labor and Retail Reports Show Economic Slippage, and a Modest Shopping Season

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The number of Americans applying for first-time jobless benefits rose last week, the Labor Department reported on Thursday, reversing a recent decline and suggesting the labor market remained brittle.
Separately, the Commerce Department said retail sales rose at the weakest pace in seven months in December, as consumers pulled back toward the end of the holiday shopping season, cutting purchases at department stores and spending less on electronics.
The retail sales data suggests ''that spending isn't really picking up any momentum,'' said Sean Incremona, an economist at 4Cast in New York. 
Robust factory output and improved hiring have fed the view that the economy has so far resisted a global slowdown as the euro zone grapples with a likely recession.
Initial claims for unemployment benefits rose to 399,000 in the first week of 2012, the highest in six weeks, from an upwardly revised 375,000 a week earlier. The four-week average of claims was also higher, rising to 381,750 from 374,000.
The Labor Department report also showed 3.63 million continuing claims, up from 3.61 million.
Including the millions of workers receiving aid under emergency federal programs, some 7.3 million Americans were receiving unemployment benefits as of Dec. 24, the most recent date for which comprehensive figures were available.
However, analysts said the government might have had trouble adjusting the claims for seasonal fluctuations after the holiday shopping season.
''We continue to view the labor market as gradually gaining momentum,'' said Troy Davig, an economist at Barclays Capital.
The unemployment rate in the United States has fallen sharply in recent months, to 8.5 percent in December, but some economists suspect the drop has in part resulted from discouraged workers dropping out of the labor force.
The Commerce Department said total retail sales increased 0.1 percent in December, after rising by an upwardly revised 0.4 percent in November.
Core retail sales, which exclude autos, gasoline and building materials, declined 0.1 percent in December, after advancing 0.3 percent a month earlier. Core sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of the government's gross domestic product report.
Within the retail report, the government revised upward its estimate for November sales growth to 0.4 percent, suggesting consumers frontloaded their holiday shopping as retailers discounted heavily and extended store hours in the days after Thanksgiving. The government had initially estimated retail sales rose 0.2 percent in November.
By the end of the season, however, consumers cut back, with spending at electronics and appliance stores down 3.9 percent in December. Shopping at department stores slipped 0.2 percent.
Heavy discounting may have depressed retail sales for the entire season, said a JPMorgan economist, Michael Feroli, who also speculated that the slowdown in December could be because consumers realized they had spent too much in previous months.
A recent drop in the saving rate has led many economists to think American shoppers were getting ahead of themselves.
A 1.5 percent increase in sales of motor vehicles and parts helped lift the retail sector in December. Excluding autos, retail sales fell 0.2 percent, the first decline since May 2010.
Another government report showed business inventories rose 0.3 percent in November, reinforcing the view that fourth-quarter economic growth could get a lift as companies restock their shelves.
A wave of foreclosures has kept downward pressure on home prices, although a report from the real estate data firm RealtyTrac on Thursday showed foreclosure activity slowed last year as lenders tried to clean up problems in the foreclosure process, like the ''robo-signing'' of loan documents.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); THANKSGIVING (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (69%); EURO ZONE (69%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



557 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Texan's Anti-Piracy Bill Gets Home State Pushback

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
United States Representative Lamar Smith says online piracy is damaging the United States economy and putting American lives at risk. Foreign Web sites that distribute American-made entertainment and counterfeit products, like fake pharmaceuticals, are ''stealing our profits, they're stealing our jobs and they may be endangering the health of Americans,'' said Mr. Smith, a Republican from San Antonio.
He introduced the Stop Online Piracy Act in October to tackle the problem, but the bill has received a cold reception in Mr. Smith's home state. 
Technology companies and business advocates in Texas agree that cyber crimes are a problem, but they contend that Mr. Smith's bill would cause greater economic damage, particularly to Texas' growing technology sector. And they say that online pirates could find ways to evade the law. Rackspace, Facebook and eBay, which have received economic incentives from the state to create jobs in Texas, are among the companies opposing the bill.
''In the name of policing the online theft of intellectual property, key lawmakers are pushing a cure that's worse than the disease,'' Lanham Napier, the chief executive of Rackspace, a Web hosting business, wrote on the company's blog in December.
Existing United States laws -- used by copyright holders and law enforcement authorities to remove copyrighted or illegal content from the Internet -- do not apply to foreign Web sites that operate outside the jurisdiction of American courts. To effectually shut down a foreign site engaging in illegal activity, the Stop Online Piracy Act, known as SOPA, would allow a court to order domestic companies to cut financial ties and block American customers' access to the site.
The bill has bipartisan support from a majority of the House Judiciary Committee, for which Mr. Smith is chairman, and is likely to pass out of committee when Congress reconvenes late this month. Mr. Smith said there was no language in the bill that would harm American businesses.
''Unless Rackspace is a foreign Web site primarily dedicated to illegal activity, it's not going to affect them or Facebook or any of the others,'' he said.
The technology industry strongly disagrees.
Ed Black, the chief executive of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, said the bill would fundamentally change technology companies' relationships with customers.
''The harm is it ruins the business models for companies,'' Mr. Black said. ''We don't want companies in a free society to act as secret police.''
If the current bill passes, a plaintiff could obtain a court order without giving the defendant notice.
A foreign Web site accused of breaking United States law would have 48 hours to request an appeal of the court's decision. If it does not appeal, American companies would have five days to obey the court order or face liability for enabling illegal activity.
Google and Yahoo would be required to remove hyperlinks to the accused Web site in search results, PayPal and Visa would have to stop payment transactions on the site, and Google AdWords would have to discontinue advertisements. (All of those companies oppose the bill.)
Internet service providers and companies like Rackspace would be required to block American users from accessing the Web site, or, as Mr. Napier put it in his blog post, ''censor their customers with little in the way of due process.''
Rackspace estimates that a quarter of the business it conducts with its more than 160,000 customers is overseas. Its headquarters is in an area of San Antonio just outside Mr. Smith's district, though he represents many of the 2,300 employees who work there.
Despite the outcry, Mr. Smith stands behind the bill, which he said would protect Texans against intellectual property theft. Mr. Smith also pointed to Austin as a ''ripe target'' because of its thriving music and film industries.
''There is an imbalance in the degree to which intellectual property rights are protected online,'' said Chris Castle, a lawyer who represents musicians in Austin and supports SOPA.
He said Texans would benefit from a more clearly defined set of property rights, because the bill would encourage investment in legitimate Internet businesses that can profit from legally distributing artists' work. SOPA would force American companies and individuals to take responsibility for promoting criminal activity.
The bill faces opposition from fellow conservatives in Mr. Smith's home state and elsewhere. Gov. Rick Perry does not support the bill, nor does the conservative business advocacy group Americans for Job Security.
The measure would force technology companies to divert resources they could spend on innovation, job growth and marketing for ''compliance with this new regulatory regime,'' said Stephen DeMaura, the president of Americans for Job Security. The extra spending on legal counsel would hurt hundreds of technology companies in Texas, he added, and especially harm start-ups and small businesses.
Organizations and people opposed to SOPA say the bill would ''nuke'' high-tech companies in Mr. Smith's district, and they accuse Mr. Smith of representing the interests of the entertainment industry over his constituents.
According to Opensecrets.org, which is run by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit that tracks money in politics, the majority of Mr. Smith's campaign financing, $59,300 in this year's election cycle, has come from the entertainment industry.
But Opensecrets also reports that Mr. Smith has received $392,995 from the entertainment industry and $387,440 from the technology industry since 1998 -- a small difference over all.
The technology industry remains convinced that its views were under-represented at a committee hearing on the bill and that pirates would find ways to evade the measure's provisions. Federal lawmakers are trying to move the bill quickly, Mr. Black said, without conducting extensive economic studies or consulting technical experts on cybersecurity.
''You would at least hope that there would be an attempt to hear out all stakeholders,'' Mr. Black said, ''so there could be a consensus of understanding where there's common ground and where there are different views to try to bend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Servers at Rackspace, a Web hosting business, in San Antonio. The company is opposed to a proposed anti-piracy bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE PIRACY (92%); INTERNET CRIME (92%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CYBERCRIME (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); COUNTERFEITING (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (71%); PROPERTY CRIMES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); APPEALS (60%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: LAMAR SMITH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



558 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Warming to U.S. Plea, Japan Pledges to Cut Oil From Iran

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Japan pledged on Thursday to cut its oil imports from Iran, responding to a plea from the visiting United States Treasury Secretary, Timothy Geithner, who was rebuffed by China on the matter a day earlier. 
Mr. Geithner has been traveling in Asia this week to drum up support for an American-led campaign to step up pressure on Iran over its nuclear program by curbing its lucrative oil sales. Chinese officials said on Wednesday that they wanted no part of that effort.
Japan, a leading importer of Iranian oil, joins another big customer, the European Union, in pledging to reduce its purchases. But Japan could still balk at cutting them too deeply. Japan, and especially the Tokyo metropolitan area, have become more dependent on oil in the wake of the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, which has thrown the country's nuclear energy program into disarray. Iran now supplies about 10 percent of Japan's oil imports, according to the Finance Ministry.
Unlike China, Japan cannot afford to ignore American diplomatic initiatives, because it depends heavily on the United States for its defense, in particular against its belligerent neighbor North Korea.
Jun Azumi, the Japanese finance minister, said on Thursday after meeting with Mr. Geithner that Japan would ''take concrete action to further reduce'' its oil imports from Iran, but that cutting them to zero ''would cause immense damage.'' He said he asked Mr. Geithner to ''take Japan's situation into consideration.''
Osamu Fujiwara, Japan's chief cabinet secretary, later seemed to backtrack on Mr. Azumi's pledge, saying a reduction was ''just one of several options.'' And in a meeting later on Thurdsay, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda told Mr. Geithner that crimping Iran's oil sales ''could cause serious effects on the Japanese and world economies,'' according to a statement from his office.
Officials in Tokyo worry that the effort will push up oil prices. But they also worry about a new American law that would deny access to the American financial system for foreign institutions that do business with Iran's Central Bank, the main clearinghouse for payments for Iranian oil. The law allows the White House to make exceptions for countries that achieve a ''significant reduction'' in their imports of oil from Iran, and Japanese news media have reported that Japan hopes to secure such a waiver.
''We are exploring ways to cut Iran's central bank off from the global financial system,'' Mr. Geithner said in Tokyo on Thursday. ''We are in the early stages of consulting with Japan and our other allies. ''We appreciate the support that Japan has provided.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



559 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Nations Aid U.S. Push To Choke Off Iran Oil Sales

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Mark Lander reported from Washington, and Clifford Krauss from Houston. Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting from Tokyo, Vikas Bajaj from Mumbai, India, and Jim Yardley from New Delhi.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Pressure on Iran mounted on Thursday, with the United States saying it was determined to isolate the country's central bank, and three of Iran's largest oil customers -- Japan, South Korea and China -- getting assurances that Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf producers would help make up any gap in supplies if they curtailed oil purchases from Iran.
The Obama administration said its campaign to choke off Iran's oil exports was making headway, amid signs that Japan, South Korea and even China were seeking alternatives to Iran, in order to comply with American sanctions on Iran's central bank, through which most purchases are made.
''We do mean to close down the Central Bank of Iran,'' said a senior administration official, adding that oil purchases were the key to that effort because oil ''is the largest source of their revenue.'' 
Delegations from the State, Energy and Treasury Departments are fanning out to Iran's major customers, as well as to rival oil producers, to enlist them in an ambitious project: to effectively cut off one of the world's largest oil producers without driving up oil prices.
In the early days of that effort, the administration is getting crucial help from Persian Gulf nations. They have offered assurances to China, Japan and South Korea -- which together buy about half of Iran's oil -- after each expressed concern that a loss of energy resources could undermine their own economies.
''China and Japan and South Korea are looking for assurances that there will be additional supplies from the Arabian Gulf producers,'' said Sadad Ibrahim al-Husseini, former head of exploration and development at Saudi Aramco, the national oil company. Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, he added, ''are all saying: 'We will do whatever it takes. Yes, we will support you.' ''
The United States, and Europe, have moved aggressively to block Iran's ability to sell oil, hoping to create enough economic pain and social instability that Iran's leaders will abandon a nuclear program that the West says is aimed at building nuclear weapons, but that Iran says is for peaceful purposes.
China, Iran's largest buyer, has said that it will not impose any new sanctions against Iran. But it has already begun to reduce its purchases of Iranian crude, and this weekend its prime minister, Wen Jiabao, will begin a five-day visit to Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, perhaps to explore the prospect of increased energy imports.
Oil analysts say these exporters, all allies of the United States in confronting Iran, would be able to replace up to two-thirds of Iran's 2.2 million barrels a day of oil exports that anchor the Iranian economy with annual revenue of roughly $75 billion a year. But the analysts caution that these countries could sustain the additional output only for a limited amount of time through increased production and the tapping of stored reserves estimated at 30 million barrels. They also warn that eventually oil prices would rise, threatening the shaky global economy.
The gulf states ''could replace the Iranian oil for about a month, and then you would have to look to the strategic reserves from the West, which could represent another month,'' said Chakib Khelil, a former Algerian energy minister who also served as president of OPEC. ''Then you could have undersupply, and oil prices could get jacked up.''
Officials in Asia have been wary of a new United States law that would deny access to the American financial system for foreign financial institutions that do business with Iran's central bank, the country's main clearing house for payments for oil. But Middle Eastern oil executives say the Asians appear to be moving in the direction of Washington and Europe to press Iran on its nuclear program, albeit reluctantly and perhaps fitfully.
The senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the American diplomatic efforts, said the new sanctions legislation, which President Obama signed into law on Dec. 31, had ''created uncertainty for people who want to deal with Iran, so they are looking to diversify and choose other sources for their transactions.''
The legislation, however, gives Mr. Obama the leeway to grant waivers to countries to continue doing business with the Central Bank of Iran on the grounds of national security or if they show progress in reducing purchases of oil.
Arab oil executives say the discussions between the Asian buyers and major regional OPEC producers have taken place over the past few days as Europe stands poised to join the United States in tougher sanctions. The talks, they said, have gained urgency amid rising tensions between the West and Iran, culminating in the assassination on Wednesday in Tehran of an Iranian nuclear scientist and earlier threats by Tehran to close the Strait of Hormuz.
Negotiations to reach new long-term contracts to replace Iranian oil have just begun and could take a month or more to take shape, but regional oil experts said they are expected to accelerate over the weekend as the Chinese prime minister arrives in the region.
There are already signs that the United States efforts are succeeding. Japan pledged on Thursday to cut oil imports from Iran in response to a plea from Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, visiting there a day after he was publicly rebuffed by China. Since Japan buys at least 14 percent of Iran's oil exports, its joining with the European Union in pledging to cut Iranian oil imports is potentially a major blow to Tehran.
A loss of Chinese markets would be an even bigger blow since it is by far Iran's biggest customer, buying 22 percent of its oil exports, or more than the entire European Union. Even as it has publicly rejected Western sanctions, Beijing has substantially cut back on commitments to buy Iranian oil on long-term contracts in recent weeks -- either to distance itself from Tehran or to buy Iranian oil at a cheaper price on the spot market.
In India, refiners who process 13 percent of Iranian crude exports are also gradually turning away from Tehran. The news media in South Korea have reported that its government is considering cutting Iranian oil purchases.
But there is little likelihood that there will be a sudden Chinese break with Iranian oil imports because Beijing relies on Iran for at least 5 percent of its supplies while its offshore drilling has slowed after a series of oil spills last year. Gulf oil officials say that the Chinese are looking for reliable alternative sources to replace Iranian supplies, but that they are in no rush to risk their economy, with its voracious thirst for energy.
''It will have to be a slow and methodical process to switch from one supplier to another,'' said Mr. Husseini, the Saudi former oil executive.
Even incremental movement from China, and indications of movement from Japan, constitute progress in Washington's efforts to curb Iranian oil exports. Japan's finance minister, Jun Azumi, said Thursday that Japan would ''take concrete action to further reduce'' oil imports from Iran, though he noted that cutting Iranian oil imports to zero ''would cause immense damage.''
The mixed signals from Tokyo continued throughout the day. Osamu Fujimura, Japan's chief cabinet secretary, appeared to backtrack on Mr. Azumi's pledge, saying such a reduction was ''just one of several options.''
India has been trying to reduce its reliance on Iranian crude oil for several years with mixed success.
In late 2010, in what appeared to be a response to American pressure, the Reserve Bank of India said Indian banks could no longer use a regional clearinghouse to settle payments for Iranian oil imports. Now, Indian companies pay Iran through a Turkish bank, but that option may not be viable for much longer given Mr. Obama's decision to sanction banks that do business with Iran's central bank.
''Who do you pay and how do you pay?'' said Kate Dourian, the Middle East editor for Platts, an energy industry research service. ''It is becoming more and more difficult.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); SAUDI ARAMCO (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); WEN JIABAO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



560 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'CATTYWAMPUS'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Tale of Sex and Class, Updated for Appalachia

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Miss Julie comes to contemporary Appalachia with all her sexual and psychological baggage in tow in ''Cattywampus,'' a raw and raucous updating of August Strindberg's classic, written and directed by Robert Cucuzza.
Presented at Incubator Arts Project (inside St. Mark's Church in the East Village) as part of the Other Forces festival -- one of the four, count 'em, four festivals of cutting-edge theater this month in the city -- the production has a ferocity that gives it bursts of energizing life. With its ripely vulgar language and intensely physical acting style, the production doesn't lack for surface attractions.
But Mr. Cucuzza and his actors -- Jillian Lauren as the high-class dame, D. J. Mendel as the ''rat'' she goes slumming with one fatal night -- put all their considerable talents into animating the superficial layers of Strindberg's play, turning it into a stylized cartoon. Because its tangled psychological depths are never clarified, nagging problems of plausibility keep popping into your head, like how can the central characters represent distant social poles when they are both covered in tattoos? 
Mr. Cucuzza, now based in Los Angeles, is a former player in New York's downtown theater, with serious experimental credits to his name: In addition to writing and directing, he has also acted with Richard Foreman's Ontological-Hysteric Theater and Elevator Repair Service. (He was the original Tom Buchanan in that company's acclaimed ''Gatz.'')
In transposing Strindberg's psychosexual pas de deux from 19th-century Sweden to an economically distressed Pennsylvania, he has created reasonable analogues for the markers of class that divide the play's central characters. Julie, the well-bred daughter of an aristocrat in the original, is now the preening wife of a car dealer (referred to, cheekily, as ''the Count'') whose business is folding. Jean, the valet of Miss Julie's father, has become Donnie, a car detailer working at the dealership. (The freaky title is a slang term meaning askew or awry.)
As in Strindberg, the play takes place entirely in the kitchen that is the domain of the lower orders: Donnie and his girlfriend, Chrissie (Jenny Greer), who also works at the dealership and worries that she and Donnie are both going to be downsized. Played with amusing, surly truculence by Ms. Greer, Chrissie looks on with resentment and anxiety as Donnie falls under Julie's flirtatious spell, sensing that their entanglement is going to be bad news for somebody, and it's probably going to be her and Donnie.
Mr. Cucuzza has taken obvious delight in creating the language of the play, a tangy stew of vulgarities and colloquialisms that is often funny but mostly unprintable in a family newspaper. Sometimes the dialogue gets a little cornpone: Does anybody say ''how about them apples'' these days, as Donnie does at one point?
After Julie and Donnie have sealed their fate in sexual congress, they hatch a plan to head for Florida, at least until Julie is deluded into thinking that her alliance with her husband's underling has branded her a social outcast.
''Do you want to die with me?'' she asks Donnie.
''No,'' he snaps, dumbfounded, ''I want to start a dealership.''
That deadpan exchange points to the fundamental problem directors face in teleporting ''Miss Julie'' into the United States of the 21st (or 20th century): The divisions between classes are far more porous, despite the current focus on the widening gap between rich and poor in America. It takes a mighty leap of faith to believe that Donnie and Julie think that their union is impossible.
Such considerations would be immaterial if Mr. Cucuzza and his lead actors brought the play's deeper layers to the surface. While it is superficially pegged as a story of sex and class, ''Miss Julie,'' like ''Hedda Gabler,'' is on a deeper level the story of the conflict between the will to live and the seduction of nonexistence. Julie's fatal problem isn't so much that she cannot conceive of a life with a man from the lower orders, but that she is so tormented by her conflicting impulses that she cannot reconcile them, cannot accommodate herself to the choices any human life demands.
Mr. Mendel hurls himself into his role with an abandon that impresses. The hyperactive Donnie is almost never still, and Mr. Mendel practically flails himself into pieces when Donnie ecstatically hits on the grand plan to move to Florida and open his own dealership.
Ms. Lauren's Julie exudes a haughty sexual allure, and she clearly delights in alternately debasing Donnie and abasing herself before him as they snap and snarl over their dilemma. But we get no sense of the deep emotional unease that fuels Julie's flickering between antagonism and fear. While the dance of death between these two antsy Appalachians makes for a lively sideshow, the play's tragic denouement feels thumbtacked on.
Although the twangy score, composed by Juli Crockett and Michael Feldman, strikes ominous, mournful notes, ''Cattywampus'' never takes on any tragic dimensions, despite its fidelity to the original plot. It adds up to little more than a lurid romp about an adulterous affair gone suddenly, preposterously sour.
CATTYWAMPUS
Written and directed by Robert Cucuzza, adapted from Strindberg's ''Miss Julie''; music by Juli Crockett and Michael Feldman; choreography by Jordana Che Toback; musical director, Jacob Loeb; sets by Rick Martin; costumes by Alice Tavener; lighting by Ellie Rabinowitz; production supervision by Andrew Slater. A Robert Cucuzza and Transit Authority production, presented by the Incubator Arts Project as part of the Other Forces festival, Shannon Sindelar, festival producer. At the Incubator Arts Project, inside St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (212) 420-1916, incubatorarts.org. Through Jan. 21. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes.
WITH: Jillian Lauren (Julie), D. J. Mendel (Donnie) and Jenny Greer (Chrissie).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jillian Lauren and D. J. Mendel in ''Cattywampus,'' adapted from Strindberg's ''Miss Julie,'' at Incubator Arts Project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (61%); THEATER (57%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: Cattywampus (Play)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



561 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Vote Holds Fate of Nuclear Power in Taiwan

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Mia Li contributed research.

 BODY:
TAIPEI, Taiwan -- When voters here choose a president and a new legislature on Saturday, their decisions will also determine whether Taiwan pulls the plug on a state-backed nuclear power industry that provides the country with a fifth of its electricity.
Although the presidential race has mostly been about pocketbook concerns and, to a lesser extent, Taiwan's relationship with China, the leading challenger has made the elimination of Taiwan's reliance on nuclear energy a central plank of her campaign. Pollsters and analysts say that the challenger, Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party, has a good chance of unseating the incumbent, Ma Ying-jeou, whose party has long been a reliable backer of nuclear energy. 
In recent months, Ms. Tsai has vowed to retire the island's six aging reactors and has said that she would seek to mothball a problem-plagued nuclear plant that has been under construction since the late 1990s. The plant, whose price tag has nearly doubled to $9.3 billion, was supposed to begin operating this year, but further delays appear likely.
''After Fukushima, our society has realized that nuclear power is not only expensive but also unsafe,'' Ms. Tsai said recently, referring to the nuclear disaster in Japan last March that contaminated a large area around the Fukushima Daiichi plant.
The repercussions from Fukushima have been pronounced in Europe, where the governments of Germany, Switzerland and Belgium have promised to abandon nuclear power in the coming decades. However, countries across Asia continue to embrace it. China has 28 plants under construction, and India is building seven reactors and has plans for 20 more. And despite its proximity to Japan, South Korea, with 21 active nuclear reactors, is moving forward on 18 more. Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand are all actively seeking to join the nuclear-power club.
But Taiwan -- an island devoid of oil, gas and coal reserves -- appears to be losing its appetite for the atom. Last spring thousands of protesters in Taipei demanded an end to the construction of the latest plant, the Lungmen nuclear project, or Nuke 4. Soon afterward, one of Taiwan's richest tycoons joined the antinuclear chorus: Chang Yung-fa, chairman of the Evergreen Group, one of the world's largest shippers.
Opponents say that there are a number of active seismic faults across the island and that more than five million people in northern Taiwan live within an 18-mile radius of two nuclear plants. For the 23 million people living on an island the size of Maryland and Delaware combined, there would be few places to run in the event of a disaster.
''Taiwan is simply ill suited for nuclear energy,'' said Tsui Shu-hsin, secretary general of the Green Citizens' Action Alliance, which has been waging a lonely battle against atomic power.
Through the years Mr. Ma's party successfully beat back efforts to kill the Lungmen project, but he has lately softened his stance. Adopting Ms. Tsai's talk of a ''nuclear-free homeland'' at a news conference in November, Mr. Ma eased away from a government proposal to extend the life of the existing plants, which were built in the 1970s when Taiwan was led by the Kuomintang under martial law. He also insisted that Nuke 4 would become operational only if it met much stricter safety guidelines.
Environmentalists have been heartened by such pronouncements. ''Before, no one was interested in talking about the problems of nuclear power, but now it feels like history and politics are on our side,'' said Gloria Hsu, a professor of atmospheric sciences at National Taiwan University and a former chairwoman of the Taiwan Environmental Protection Union.
Proponents of nuclear energy say all the talk of a nuclear-free Taiwan neglects one important detail: how to replace the power generated by the reactors. Taiwan produces about 1 percent of its energy supplies and relies on a mix of imports: oil from the Middle East, coal from China and Australia and natural gas from Indonesia and Malaysia.
Ms. Tsai speaks of increased conservation and of shifting the Taiwanese economy away from power-hungry manufacturing. Part of her ''2025 Nuclear-Free Homeland Initiative'' also calls for the construction of gas-fired turbines and an expanded reliance on solar and wind power.
But Wey Kwo-dong, an economics professor at National Taipei University, said none of those options could quickly replace the loss of nuclear power. ''Taiwan has to import 98 percent of its energy needs, so I'm not sure where people expect to get their electricity from,'' he said. ''The issue has become so political, no one is considering the impact on Taiwan's economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (74%); SWITZERLAND (73%); BELGIUM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



562 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: All the World's a Stage, Even a Motel, a Mint or a Bus

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Tensions typically run high before a theater company performs a work for the first time, and working outside a traditional theater compounds the worries.
For Christopher W. White, the founder of the theater company Mugwumpin and the star of its latest play, ''Future Power Motive,'' the tension started with securing a stage.
With help from the San Francisco Arts Commission, Mugwumpin, an experimental group, found a suitably decrepit spot in the Tenderloin to tell the story of Nikola Tesla's tragic life as a misunderstood genius inventor -- only to learn that the play's director was allergic to the black mold lurking in the walls. 
Next, the company settled on the Old Mint -- the 1874 building now run by the San Francisco Museum and Historical Society -- as an ideal spot, but the dates it wanted were not available, so the production was postponed until this month.
Then, thanks to a lack of heat, Mr. White strained muscles in his leg while running around the room in character as Tesla during a rehearsal.
Finally, right before the first preview performance last weekend, the stage manager told Mr. White that the audience would be more than double the 30 people they had planned for.
''Our cap was supposed to be 70,'' Mr. White said, explaining that the group had never had an audience in the space before. ''We were like, how are we going to move 85 people'' from one room to another?
''Future Power Motive'' runs through Jan. 29.
Mugwumpin's troubles seem breezy compared with the time that Boxcar Theater, another San Francisco theater company, saw its venue (a bus) break down right before the first show, necessitating a costly one-night rental that threw off the whole budget.
But for a host of theater and dance companies in the Bay Area, the rewards of working outside conventional theaters outweigh the headaches.
There are a number of such unusually located works scheduled for this year: Raw Dance will stage a show in United Nations Plaza, timed to the San Francisco Pride parade, to celebrate romantic relationships of all stripes; ''The Odyssey'' will be performed on Angel Island in May; Home Theater Festival, a three-year-old local effort to encourage theatrical productions inside people's homes, will return in the spring; and Sam Shepard's ''Fool for Love,'' done by Boxcar Theater as part of a yearlong homage to the playwright, will be performed in a motel.
''The pluses largely have to do with being inspired by the space,'' Mr. White said. ''What can we do with all of these different vaults, what can we do with these hallways.''
Bay Area performers taking theater out of theaters is nothing new, of course -- in the late '60s and '70s, thanks to influential countercultural groups like the Diggers and the S.F. Mime Troupe, there was an explosion of experimental work.
But with a stagnant economy and a decline nationally in audiences for traditional dance and theater, there is renewed interest in performances outside darkened black- box theaters. Unusual spaces are also popular with patrons of the arts, who give grants for ''creative place-making'' -- art that can reach broad audiences and help revitalize downtrodden neighborhoods like the Mid-Market area in San Francisco.
Some companies, like We Players, founded in 2000 by Ava Roy, exist only to do site-specific work; Ms. Roy has put on ''Hamlet'' on Alcatraz Island and is raising money for an Angel Island production of ''The Odyssey,'' Homer's classic, in May. Other groups have normal theaters, but also perform in less traditional places because they like the news media attention and younger demographic that experimental productions attract.
''We were looking for marketing gimmicks and that became site-specific work,'' said Nick Olivero, founder of Boxcar Theater, which has put on shows on Baker Beach and in museums and once recreated a speakeasy for a theatrical version of the board game Clue.
''A lot of artists, especially dance artists, have been priced out of theaters,'' said Ryan T. Smith, one-half of RawDance, along with Wendy Rein. They have inhabited a storefront in the Westfield Mall as well as performed as salad-tossing diners in the restaurant Orson.
''If you do something site-specific, you can often eliminate or lower the cost'' and create a public relations campaign, Mr. Smith said.
For some companies, a peripatetic existence reflects instability, not creativity. The Lorraine Hansberry Theater, a company devoted to African-American productions, secured a new permanent space last year after losing its former theater in 2007, a move that Steven Anthony Jones, the company's artistic director, said was crucial to the organization's survival.
''We are a more traditional company, so not having a home is kind of disastrous,'' he said. ''People literally said: 'Where are you? I couldn't find you.' ''
For Mugwumpin, however, scouring the city for spots that resembled Tesla's turn-of-the-century environs has paid off. While Mr. White said that his group was more accurately termed ''site unspecific'' because it does not create work for one place, the Old Mint, once a symbol of wealth, ended up creating an inadvertent resonance with the play's themes. The financier J. P. Morgan is a villain in the play, and in Tesla's life, as he devastated Tesla when he pulled funds for his wireless-communication experiments.
''There are some happy accidents because so much of what was happening to Tesla was trying to get the money powers around him to support his work,'' Mr. White said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mugwumpin's newest production, ''Future Power Motive,'' is being staged in a former mint. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAK HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); DANCE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



563 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Supply the City With Affordable Power Even if an Aging Plant Closes

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If anyone, or any business, can get a good deal on electricity, it ought to be Consolidated Edison, which buys loads of it every year and then sells it to three million customers in New York City and the suburbs. Like most traditional utility companies, it has gotten out of the power generation business in recent years and is now a distribution company. It buys the electricity that it delivers from generators run by independent companies.
So when Con Ed goes shopping, where does it find the best prices? 
The question came up Thursday at a legislative hearing in the city on the future of the Indian Point nuclear power plant, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomowants to close. Whether he succeeds or not, the action will be a pivot in the history of New York City. The state has plenty of relatively cheap and clean electricity from hydropower and wind farms, but it is trapped in the northern reaches of the state by a distribution system that hits a traffic jam of electrons before it gets near the city.
Indian Point, however, is in Westchester County, south of that congestion, and its electricity flows without obstacles into the city, just about 30 miles away. That very geography is also driving the effort by the governor and others to close the plant, which is getting old.
There is little confidence that people would be able to evacuate the region, much less the most densely populated big city in the country, in the event of a serious accident. (A leak of radioactive water in a cooling pump forced the plant to shut down one of its two generators this week.)
If the plant closes in the next few years, the 2,000 megawatts of electricity that it produces will have to come from somewhere else -- that is, somewhere either in or near the city. Business and union officials spoke Thursday, as they have before, in support of the continued operation of Indian Point, arguing that the economy would be hobbled by the loss of so much cheap electricity.
Interestingly, the contractual electricity prices are kept secret by the generating companies and the utilities.
But by poring through Con Edison's annual reports, James F. Brennan, a Democratic member of the Assembly from Brooklyn who also represents the Working Families Party, managed to figure out the prices it paid in 2010 to four of its leading suppliers.
Here are the numbers Mr. Brennan found for each kilowatt hour:
12.8 cents, from a wholesale market based in Albany.
8.2 cents from a gas-fired power plant in Astoria, Queens.
7.7 cents from the Indian Point nuclear generators.
6.8 cents from a gas-powered co-generation plant operated in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
Mr. Brennan thinks that New York can get by without the electricity generated by Indian Point and that the city will not be putting itself at a financial disadvantage. Other cities actually make their own electricity, and do so at lower costs than some commercial suppliers, he noted at the hearing. Asked by a city official if he thought that the city should get into that business, Mr. Brennan paused for a minute. ''Yes,'' he said.
Certainly, the cost of making electricity has declined drastically in the last few years, in large part because the price of natural gas has been dropping. The decrease in price has made electricity from natural gas competitive with nuclear power. In 2008, the price of natural gas was $12 or $13 for a quantity known as a decatherm.
''Right now, it is $3 for a decatherm,'' said Joseph P. Oates, a vice president at Con Edison.
Newer gas-generation plants are far more efficient than the ones they are replacing, and the city has helped developers build new ones in Queens. Con Edison, which used to own Indian Point, does not have a position on the continued operation of its old plant, but Mr. Oates said: ''If you close it, it has to be replaced with something. The question is, what is that something?''
Natural gas plants have low emissions, but Norris McDonald, the president of the African American Environmentalist Association, said during a break in the hearing that Indian Point had virtually no emissions. ''Where it is now, it is an environmental asset,'' he said. ''If you shut it down, whatever you're going to replace it with is going to increase emissions in communities like Harlem.''
Other environmentalists argue that much of the slack can be made up with a combination of greater efficiency and more renewable energy, like solar, wind and tidal power. But when?
A wise colleague once gave me a warning on another dense topic: If you think you understand the problem, he said, then it hasn't been properly explained to you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); CLOSINGS (74%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (74%); POWER COGENERATION (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (70%); FAMILY (61%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



564 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Efforts Are Under Way To Tie College To Job Needs

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Assaying the output of higher education in Texas, Michael Bettersworth evoked the image of a crippled Apollo 13 craft hurtling into space, its future uncertain.
''Houston, we have a problem, and it's not that too few people are going to college,'' said Mr. Bettersworth, an associate vice chancellor at the Texas State Technical College System. ''It's that too many people are getting degrees with limited value in the job market.''
Students throughout Texas are amassing college credits without knowing whether they will lead to employment, and many face serious debt when they graduate. 
Meanwhile, the state's population of skilled laborers is aging and approaching retirement, and there is a dearth of recent graduates with two-year vocational degrees who can take on those jobs.
Experts say a retooling is in order if the state hopes to expand its manufacturing industry.
As the economy begins to show signs of life, efforts are under way at two-year colleges across the state to make programs more responsive to the labor market. Some Texas leaders are trying to reverse the trend toward encouraging students to attain the highest degree possible.
''It's not that we don't need engineers and Ph.D.'s and research scientists,'' said Joe Arnold, a government affairs manager with B.A.S.F., a chemical company. ''We do, but that's not all we need. We need skilled craftsmen. We need operators.''
The Texas State Technical College System was established in 1969 with the mission of supplementing the state's work force. Recently, the four-campus system joined Credentials That Work, a new project run by the Boston-based nonprofit Jobs for the Future, which uses new technology that scrapes information from online job postings and provides real-time labor market information. The technology also offers information on which skills -- in addition to simply which degrees -- employers are seeking.
''Schools have to nail it pretty much in terms of producing graduates that respond to the needs of the marketplace,'' said John Dorrer, the director of the Credentials That Work program.
However, even when degrees can be tailor-made to fit companies' needs, students still must be persuaded to pursue them. Mike Reeser, the college system's chancellor, said there was ''a misperception in the country that the worst bachelor's degree is more valuable than the best associate's degree.''
Tom Pauken, the chairman of the Texas Workforce Commission, said one of his top priorities this year would be countering that notion. ''I think we've got to revisit this entire issue,'' he said. ''We've gotten completely away from the idea that we've got different talents and there are different approaches in terms of education.''
Should Mr. Pauken's campaign be successful, there will remain the matter of financing. With budgets being slashed at all levels of education, resources are tight, and the more highly specified training is expensive.
''We have to be more efficient, we have to be more effective, and we have to rely on employers for more support,'' said Mr. Bettersworth, the associate vice chancellor.
Increasingly, manufacturing companies are taking the initiative by investing in community colleges in order to produce the workers they need.
This year, for example, B.A.S.F. will give Brazosport College in Lake Jackson the final installment of a $1 million grant for the creation of a new facility devoted to the petrochemical, energy and nuclear industries. This academic year was also the first of five years in which the company would provide $50,000 in scholarships.
''Community colleges are workhorses for us,'' Mr. Arnold said. ''The problem is there aren't enough people going to them seeking education that will put them to work for us.''
Mr. Arnold is on a Texas Association of Manufacturers committee that is looking into the causes. So far, he said, there certainly seems to be an image issue.
''People know that we need more manufacturing, but they don't think of those jobs as something they want to send their kids to go do -- or to do themselves,'' he said.
But Leo Danna, 20, who enrolled at the T.S.T.C. campus in Waco after two years at Tarleton State University in Stephenville, said the switch has worked for him.
''That kind of college wasn't right for me,'' he said. ''I couldn't focus and didn't understand what I was going to do when I graduated. Here, in the first semester, you're already talking to companies in your field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a class on pumps, compressors and mechanical drives at Texas State Technical College in Waco. Left, Holden Henderson examines a piece of equipment in the same class. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLIE RICHMOND FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (68%); CHEMICALS (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



565 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Why Taiwan's Future Matters

BYLINE: By SU CHI. 
Su Chi, the chairman of the Taipei Forum, served as secretary general of Taiwan's National Security Council from 2008 to 2010.

 BODY:
FOR most of its history, Taiwan's destiny was determined by three great powers -- China, Japan and America. Now, as the 18th-largest economy in the world and a thoroughly democratized nation, Taiwan is still perceived by some in Washington as a potential bargaining chip in crafting a new relationship with China. This is a mistake.
It is true that Taiwan's status is the only dispute today that is likely to drag America and China into war. Similarly, a democratic Taiwan worries ''realist'' strategic thinkers who fear the consequences if it declares independence. But since 2008, when Taiwan began to stabilize its once volatile relations with China, it has become an even greater asset for the United States -- and an inspiration for democratizing forces in mainland China. 
After years of saber-rattling in Beijing and Taipei's drive for independence, President Ma Ying-jeou's May 2008 declaration of ''no unification, no independence, and no use of force'' calmed all sides. Taiwan and China have since engaged in numerous de facto government-to-government talks and greatly expanded people-to-people exchanges. With $130 billion worth of trade and seven million visits annually across the Taiwan Strait, the impact on both societies could be enormous.
Indeed, as China and Taiwan have grown ever more economically integrated, Taiwan has also become a model for China's future. No longer perceived as a menace to China's national unity, Taiwan's value as an example for China began to emerge, particularly when it came to market reforms, popular culture and press freedom. And this new model arrived at a fortuitous juncture.
After 1949, Communist China's first 30 years were engulfed in revolutionary fervor, internal power struggles and poverty. Its second 30 years witnessed rapid economic growth, which catapulted the country to the second largest economy in the world. The third stage, which may well last another 30 years, given China's huge size, is most likely to be marked by a race between popular demands for participation in the political process and the Communist Party's response to these demands.
This is a bumpy path Taiwan has trod. In the past three decades, Taiwan has discarded authoritarianism and moved from martial law to the rule of law, experiencing impressive economic growth and political liberalization. Authoritarian China now finds itself uncomfortably strained as inland provinces are struggling for economic growth while urban areas are boldly stretching out to explore the boundaries of political control, forcing the Communist Party to experiment with limited reforms.
Herein lies Taiwan's new value. While China's economic influence on Taiwan is growing, many in China find Taiwan's experience with democratization, warts and all, instructive. Long resentful of prevalent corruption at home, they have watched Taiwan tackle corruption within its government, even at the highest levels. They have seen how successfully Taiwan combined modernity with Chinese traditions. And they have observed how Taiwan's people freely express their will through noisy public discussion and regular elections. Last month, debates among Taiwan's presidential candidates were even carried by social media inside China.
Taiwan will of course need to resolve its internal political disagreements. After all, some in Taiwan are not yet convinced that a push for independence would be misguided. However, such a move would court disaster, incur disfavor with the international community, and seriously undermine Taiwan's newfound attraction to many Chinese people as a democratic model.
The winner of Taiwan's presidential election on Jan. 14 should therefore strive to forge a new domestic consensus between opposing camps on the island's political relationship with China while ensuring Taiwan a more dignified place in world politics commensurate with the contributions it can make.
Long locked in indignant isolation but enormously proud of their democratic achievements, Taiwan's people must now accept that democracy endows them with greater responsibility for regional stability. They could start by playing a more constructive role in the evolving American-Chinese relationship by becoming an interlocutor on issues that affect all three parties, like disputes over the South China Sea.
All of this will require innovative thinking and skillful management. If either side or the United States mishandles the relationship by attempting a diplomatic or even military shortcut, it could spell disaster for all parties. But if China and Taiwan establish a sufficient degree of mutual trust, Taiwan can remain an indispensable ally for the United States and a model for China's future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



566 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: CVS Settles Prescription Price Case

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
After more than two years of investigation, CVS Caremark agreed on Thursday to pay $5 million to settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that the company had misrepresented the price of certain prescription drugs in one of its Medicare drug plans, causing many older consumers to pay significantly higher prices than advertised.
The settlement comes at a time of intensive government scrutiny of pharmacy benefit managers like CVS Caremark, which run prescription drug plans for employers and insurers. The F.T.C. is reviewing the proposed merger of the two main competitors to CVS Caremark: Medco Health and Express Scripts.
In the case of Medco and Express Scripts, regulators are examining whether the combination would create a player with too much market share. 
With CVS Caremark, the agency looked into whether the merger of one of the largest drugstore chains with one of the largest pharmacy benefits managers had given the company an unfair market advantage in steering customers and obtaining information about competing pharmacies. CVS Caremark works with a network of about 65,000 pharmacies, including more than 7,300 of its own drugstores.
In 2009, some legislators, labor unions, pharmacies and consumer groups raised concerns about potentially anticompetitive and anticonsumer business practices by CVS Caremark. The F.T.C. opened an investigation early that year.
On Thursday, the agency dismissed the more serious allegations of anticompetitive behavior. The agency found only one violation -- that one of the company's Medicare drug plans, then called RxAmerica, misled some consumers about drug prices.
''After a thorough and comprehensive review of other consumer protection and competition issues in this matter, the F.T.C. issued a letter closing the investigation,'' the agency said in a news release.
In a statement, CVS Caremark said that the settlement related only to the practices of RxAmerica, a subsidiary of Longs Drug Stores, that took place before CVS Caremark acquired Longs in October 2008. (While much of the incorrect pricing did occur before the purchase, the F.T.C. asserted that some continued after the acquisition.)
CVS Caremark said that the subsidiary had inadvertently posted inaccurate prices for certain generic drugs on a Web site maintained by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and that the company had rectified the pricing problem upon learning of it.
''CVS Caremark is pleased to have reached an agreement with the F.T.C. that ends the investigation and enables us to continue our focus on offering unique, innovative products and services that differentiate us and benefit consumers,'' said Larry Merlo, the chief executive of CVS Caremark, in the statement.
This is not CVS Caremark's first instance of incorrect pricing. In 2010, the company notified the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that from October 2009 to January 2010, a computer error had caused it to provide incorrect prices -- about 4 percent lower than the actual price -- for brand-name prescription drugs available through its SilverScript Medicare drug plan. The company offered to refund the price difference to customers who had paid more than they had expected. It also offered to help them switch to another plan.
The F.T.C.'s decision in the current case removes a significant overhang for CVS Caremark. The company said it was currently in discussions with the attorneys general of 24 states and the District of Columbia to resolve a parallel multistate investigation.
In 2006, when CVS proposed to merge with Caremark, executives pledged that the new company would put up a firewall to keep the activities of its stores separate from the benefits manager, which processes prescriptions from competing pharmacies. Thomas M. Ryan, then CVS's chief executive, said in a conference call with investors in 2006 that the merged company would ''be agnostic to where the consumer fills their prescription.''
But pharmacies and consumer groups asserted in their complaints to regulators that the two divisions of the company had shared consumers' records, steering people to the company's retail stores and mail-order operations, which gave CVS Caremark an unfair advantage over competitors. At the time, some consumer advocates called for the merger to be dissolved.
The F.T.C. mounted a sweeping investigation, involving its bureau of consumer protection, bureau of economics and bureau of competition -- an unusual effort by the agency. But it ultimately cited CVS Caremark for only the RxAmerica violation.
In the statement, Douglas A. Sgarro, the chief legal officer of CVS Caremark, said, ''It is important to note that, at the conclusion of this comprehensive investigation, the F.T.C. made no allegations of antitrust law violations or anticompetitive behavior associated with any of our business practices, products or service offerings.''
Industry analysts said the settlement represented a victory for CVS Caremark and a repudiation of the merger's critics.
''I think this should make investors comfortable that the F.T.C. is also comfortable with this new paradigm,'' said Lisa Gill, an analyst at J. P. Morgan. (CVS Caremark has been a client of the investment bank within the last year).
But the National Community Pharmacists Association, one of the groups that opposed the merger, said it was disappointed that the F.T.C. had not taken stronger action to protect consumers and market competition.
''The union of these companies further compounds the inherent, 'the fox is guarding the henhouse' problem with today's prescription drug benefit system,'' B. Douglas Hoey, the chief executive of the association, said in a statement.
Industry analysts said CVS Caremark's settlement with the F.T.C. would have no bearing on the agency's review of the proposed horizontal merger of Express Scripts and Medco Health.
The F.T.C. complaint charged that from 2007 through at least November 2008, the RxAmerica plan posted on its Web site and supplied to some third-party Web sites incorrect prices for Medicare Part D prescription drugs at two pharmacy chains, CVS and Walgreens.
The posted prices caused many people to choose the CVS Caremark plan and pay as much as 10 times more than they had expected, according to the F.T.C. In some cases, the higher prices unexpectedly pushed older consumers into the so-called doughnut hole -- a gap in prescription drug coverage that requires people to pay out of pocket for their medicines.
CVS Caremark is required to pay $5 million to reimburse consumers for the price difference and is barred from making deceptive claims about drug prices. The agency said it planned to mail checks to consumers who were deceived.
But Representative Sharon Anglin Treat, a Democrat in the Maine House of Representatives who advocates reduced drug prices, said the settlement did not go far enough to compensate patients who may have forgone buying medications they needed because they could not afford the higher prices.
''I don't think this kind of mispricing is minor,'' Representative Treat said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CVS Caremark has to pay $5 million to reimburse consumers for the price difference of their prescription drugs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTORIA AROCHO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES (92%); DRUG PRICES (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MERGERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); MATURE MARKET (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MEDICAID (58%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (98%); RXAMERICA LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (98%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (98%)

PERSON: LARRY J MERLO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



567 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Gang Members to God on a Rooftop

BYLINE: By DON TERRY. 
dterry@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In the nearly two months since Corey Brooks, a little-known minister, began living, praying and preaching in a tent pitched on the roof of a vacant motel, politicians, hip-hop musicians and grieving mothers have traveled to the South Side for an audience with the ''rooftop pastor.''
Now Mr. Brooks could emerge as ''the new face in the leadership lineup,'' said Robert T. Starks, a political science professor at Northeastern Illinois University.
''He's on the verge if he can solidify his base, if he can keep the momentum going,'' Mr. Starks said. ''He's attracting a lot of young people, which is very important.'' 
Mr. Starks said with all of Mr. Brooks's newfound attention, political power brokers also have their eyes on the rooftop. ''It will be interesting to see if the system is able to co-opt him as it has so many other black ministers in this town,'' he said.
Mr. Brooks, who celebrated his 43rd birthday on the roof on Monday, said he had no interest in politics, at least not when it comes to elective office. ''I'll never run for office,'' he said. ''But I will always fight against the social ills of our society.''
Mr. Brooks -- who continues to deliver his Sunday sermon to parishioners in his New Beginnings Church via video stream -- is trying to raise $450,000 to buy the motel, raze it and eventually replace it with a community youth center directly across the street from his church in the 6600 block of South Martin Luther King Drive.
Since he first climbed atop the roof on Nov. 22, he said more than 2,000 people from as far away as South Africa and Sweden have contributed a total of $237,000.
''Pastor Corey Brooks has struck a nerve,'' said Mark Allen, chairman of Black Wall Street Chicago, a black economic development advocacy group. ''He has set off a little storm in terms of other young leaders saying what visibility, what kind of drastic, daring, bold act can I do to call attention to the issues confronting the African-American community?''
In the first weeks of Mr. Brooks rooftop crusade, his church, and supporters like the Rev. James Meeks, a state senator, organized two large antiviolence marches for men that began at the foot of the motel and proceeded down King Drive. On a windy December Saturday, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, the Rev. Al Sharpton, Mr. Meeks and the newspaper publisher Hermene Hartman crowded into Mr. Brooks's tent -- heated by a small portable electric radiator -- for a visit and a prayer.
''When it comes to the faith-based community, the church sector, Pastor Brooks is definitely one of the emerging leaders because of his radical behavior,'' said Willie J. R. Fleming, chairman of the Chicago Anti-Eviction Campaign. ''He didn't go the traditional route. He has the ability to reach out to the grass-roots community and get them to assist him.''
The church sits in the middle of the territory of four different street gangs, and Mr. Brooks's congregation of about 2,500 people includes dozens of former gang members. ''I've always wanted to minister to the people Jesus would, the outcasts, the rejects, the dispossessed,'' he said. ''Everybody is welcome. Everybody has a soul.''
Indeed, Mr. Brooks is known in the neighborhood for his willingness to hold and officiate at funerals for slain gang members -- unlike some inner-city ministers who refuse to hold such services because of potential trouble.
Gang farewells can be dangerous. A few years ago, Mr. Brooks officiated at a funeral for a major drug dealer who had been gunned down minutes after leaving a wake. Last November, as mourners filed out of his church after the funeral for a slain 17-year-old, gunfire erupted outside.
Since he began his rooftop vigil, Mr. Brooks has left the roof only three times: once in December to console a mother whose son had been killed in a drive-by shooting, and then last Thursday and Friday to officiate at the funerals of two teenagers slain in separate incidents.
''I've had to endure being called the gangbanger pastor,'' he said. ''But I'm a pastor for everybody who needs me. My job is about meeting needs, especially spiritual needs.''
Reaching out to the grass-roots community has been at the core of the New Beginnings Church since its founding in 2000, Mr. Brooks said. After serving as pastor at a largely middle-class Baptist church in Bronzeville for five years, he started the nondenominational New Beginnings. The congregation bought and moved into its current location, a former skating rink and bowling alley, in 2006.
Mr. Brooks said the building was perfect for a house of God. It was large and ''in the middle of Woodlawn and Englewood, two of the toughest neighborhoods on the South Side.''
''For us it was location, location, location,'' he said. ''It was in the area with the most need.''
But Mr. Brooks does not rely on faith alone. He recruited some former gang members and former gang leaders into his church as security and living examples to the young men of the neighborhood ''that you don't have to be soft to be a Christian,'' he said.
''I used to be completely loyal to the gang,'' said Undra Colbert, 44, a former gang leader. ''Now I'm completely loyal to God and my pastor. He doesn't turn his back on anyone.''
Yolanda Martin, 42, said she was also a passionate supporter of Mr. Brooks. ''He's given me so much wisdom and understanding,'' she said.
Mrs. Martin, a former drug addict, is now an usher and greeter at Sunday services along with her husband, Michael, 52.
Two years ago, as church was letting out, a stranger approached Mrs. Martin and hugged her. The man was nervous but determined.
Larry Wells, 38, told Mrs. Martin that he had just been released after nine years behind bars for the second-degree murder of her 13-year-old son, Tyray Campbell.
''Please forgive me,'' he said. ''I'm so sorry.''
Her son had been an innocent bystander in 2000 when he was shot in the head and killed as rival gang members fought over drug turf. ''I was stunned when Larry came up to me,'' Mrs. Martin said. ''I hugged him and said I forgave him. He didn't mean to kill my son.''
Yet she did not go to church the next Sunday. ''I didn't want to see him,'' she said. ''I said I forgave him, but I didn't, not in my heart. I was still angry.''
Michael Martin, Tyray's stepfather, urged his wife to return. '' 'Don't let the Devil win,' '' he said. '' 'God forgave you. You got to forgive, too.' ''
She returned, and so did Mr. Wells. ''I really do forgive him,'' she said. ''I can't carry no grudges in church. God turned my life around.''
They were in church together last Sunday, Mr. Brooks's seventh on the roof.
''Redemption, forgiveness, that's what it's supposed to be all about,'' Mr. Brooks said. ''That's why we call our church New Beginnings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After 45 days on a rooftop, the Rev. Corey Brooks came down to officiate at the funeral of a 16-year-old shooting victim.
 A police presence keeps order during the funeral, held earlier this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); POLITICS (77%); RELIGION (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



568 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: A Fine Ferment

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Sales of Greek yogurt are booming, benefiting from a perception that the food is healthier than regular yogurt and other snacks.
''It's an indulgent texture, but it's also guilt-free,'' said David J. Browne, a senior analyst for Mintel International Group, a consumer research firm.
Greek yogurt has certainly been healthy for the economy in New York. Two of the leading brands, Chobani and Fage, have their main production plants in upstate New York and are expanding their operations.
Alpina Foods, the United States arm of a major South American dairy company, is building a $20 million plant in Batavia to make Greek yogurt topped with granola. And state economic development officials are said to be negotiating with another major food maker to set up a dairy products plant in the same area, creating the possibility for what one executive called a ''yogurt cluster.'' 
Often twice as expensive as regular yogurt, Greek yogurt has most of the water and whey strained out, making it richer in protein and giving it the density of sour cream.
National retail sales of the thicker style of yogurt more than doubled last year, jumping to $821 million for a 52-week period ending in October, excluding Walmart stores, according to Mintel. The research firm projects that the strong sales growth will most likely continue this year.
New York's dairy farmers are among the biggest beneficiaries of the public's love affair with Greek yogurt, because it takes much more milk to make Greek yogurt than regular yogurt. ''This is a 'once every two or three generations' situation,'' said Bruce Krupke, executive vice president of the Northeast Dairy Foods Association. ''All of the right forces have come together to make it very attractive to build in New York state.''
Data compiled by the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets shows that the state produced 368 million pounds of yogurt in 2010, nearly 40 percent more than the previous year. Over five years, production rose almost 60 percent. Much of that increase is for Greek yogurt production.
And the growth is continuing. Through a combination of new plants and expansions, within a few years, the state could produce twice as much yogurt as it made in 2010.
''We're literally building as we speak to keep up with demand,'' said Russell B. Evans, Fage's director of United States marketing.
Fage, based in Greece, is credited with introducing many Americans to Greek yogurt and thereby starting the boom. The company chose to open its plant in Johnstown, N.Y., in 2008 partly because it was close to New York City, where a large community of people of Greek descent made a ready market familiar with their product. But the appeal turned out to be much broader.
The Johnstown plant had an initial capacity of 26 million pounds a year and last year produced 123 million pounds. Its planned expansion, which is expected to take about two years, would allow the company to make up to 352 million pounds a year.
AgroFarma, founded by a Turkish immigrant, began making Greek-style yogurt under the Chobani brand name four years ago at a former Kraft Foods plant in South Edmeston, N.Y. Now the leading American maker of Greek yogurt, the company currently takes in about three million pounds of milk a day, from which it makes a million pounds of yogurt. When the current phase of expansion is done in the spring, the plant's capacity will increase by about a third, said Mikael B. Pedersen, the chief operating officer of AgroFarma. (Chobani also recently announced plans to build a $128 million plant in Idaho, to better supply markets across the country.)
The Greek yogurt boom has translated into jobs in rural areas of New York that badly need them. Chobani said it currently employed about 900 people in New York and expected to add about 100 more. Fage said it had about 240 full-time employees and expected to add about 150. The new Alpina plant in Batavia will employ about 50 people.
''We went for many, many years in this state with regard to dairy manufacturing generally without seeing any remodeling of plants of any scale,'' said Patrick M. Hooker, senior director of industrial development of the Empire State Development Corporation, a state-controlled economic development agency.
Then came Greek yogurt. Mr. Hooker said that yogurt making was a big jobs creator, compared with many other forms of agricultural production.
To make yogurt, farmers have to grow crops, ''which are fed to cows, and cows need to be milked, and milk needs to be trucked and processed and cultured and made into yogurt and then trucked again and sent to consumers,'' Mr. Hooker said. ''It's a huge multiplier.''
What's more, because Greek-style yogurt is strained to give it a denser texture, more milk is required to make it. Industry executives said it typically took about three pounds of milk to make one pound of Greek-style yogurt, compared with the single pound of milk needed to make a pound of traditional yogurt.
''The growth in dairy manufacturing, particularly in the Greek yogurt category, has really been a fantastic boon for New York dairy farmers,'' said Julie C. Suarez, director of public policy for the New York Farm Bureau, a trade group for farmers. She cited an estimate by Cornell University that New York farmers would have to increase milk production by 15 percent in the next two years to keep up with demand.
Because milk prices are governed by a complex system of federal controls, there is not always a straight line between increased demand and higher prices. Milk prices across the country increased last year, after slumping badly during the recession. Still, the demand from yogurt makers in New York has contributed to higher milk prices, partly through premiums offered by processors to insure high-quality supply.
Ms. Suarez said that farmers benefited from having a reliable market for their milk close by. It gives them security when they make plans to expand their herds and it reduces their transportation costs for the milk.
New York may be the fastest-growing producer of yogurt, but other states have seen production rise as well. California produces more milk than any other state and is the nation's leading yogurt producer. Yogurt production in California was 620 million pounds in 2009, the last year data was available. That was an increase of 6.5 percent from the previous year.
Tennessee is another state that saw a big jump in yogurt production, partly because of the expansion of a major Yoplait plant in the state.
''Stop and think,'' said John Sanford, a dairy regulator with the Tennessee Department of Agriculture, discussing the reasons for the yogurt boom. ''It's nutritious. It's safe, it's healthy and it's delicious. How can you be any better?''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the initial, current and expected capacity of the Johnstown yogurt plant. Its initial capacity was 26 million pounds (not 24 million pounds), which rose to 123 million pounds last year (not 104 million pounds currently) and its expansion will allow it to make 352 million pounds a year (not 160 million pounds).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chobani yogurt employs about 900 people in New York, at plants like this one in New Berlin, and plans to add 100 more.
Chobani takes in some three million pounds of milk a day, from which it makes a million pounds of yogurt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Chobani plans to expand its plant in New Berlin, N.Y., above, to increase its yogurt processing capacity. Fage USA , at right, is credited with starting the Greek yogurt boom, and plans an addition to its plant in Johnstown, N.Y., that would let it to make up to 352 million pounds of yogurt a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (93%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (90%); MILK (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (79%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); DAIRY FARMING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); FLUID MILK MFG (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURE (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



569 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Jan. 5 about the difficulty Americans face in rising through the economic ranks described incorrectly the concept of intergenerational income elasticity, used by economists to examine the persistence of income inequality across generations. When economists estimate the elasticity of father-son income to be 0.5, it means that for every 1 percent increase in a father's income, his sons' income can be expected to increase by about 0.5 percent. It does not mean that if one man earns $100,000 more than another, his sons would earn $50,000 more on average than the sons of the poorer man. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



570 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ASIA BUYERS OF IRAN CRUDE
ASSURED OF ALTERNATE SUPPLY
Pressure on Iran mounted, with the United States saying it was determined to isolate Iran's central bank, and three of Iran's largest oil customers -- Japan, South Korea, and China -- getting assurances that Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf producers would help make up any gap in supplies if they curtailed oil purchases from Iran. Page A4
WEB COMMENTS FOR PUTIN 
Vladimir V. Putin's presidential campaign is now embracing online platforms as a tool to increase public accountability, and his site encouraged voters to offer him suggestions online. Quite a few people took the opportunity to advise him to step down. Page A6
VOTE HOLDS NUCLEAR FATE
As voters in Taiwan choose a president and a new legislature, their decisions will also determine whether Taiwan pulls the plug on a state-backed nuclear power industry that provides the country with a fifth of its electricity. Page A7
RUSSIAN SHIP REACHES SYRIA
A Turkish Foreign Ministry official said that a Russian ship thought to be carrying a cargo of munitions reached Syria, in defiance of a European Union embargo, after stopping to refuel in Cyprus and receiving what the Turks said was inadequate scrutiny there. Page A8
INQUEST ON MI-6 OPERATION
British officials announced that they had ordered a criminal investigation into the role played by MI-6, the country's secret intelligence service, in operations that led to the imprisonment and torture of two Libyan opponents of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Page A9
Honoring Kim Jong-il A7
National
IRONIC TURN IN RULING
FOR AN UNABASHED RACIST
The Redneck Shop in Laurens, S.C., run by a white supremacist, has been selling Confederate bikinis and white satin robes for years. Now, a court ruling has confirmed that the shop is in a building that belongs to a black Baptist pastor. Page A11
APPOINTMENTS DEFENDED
President Obama had the lawful power to consider the Senate to be on a break -- even though it considered itself to be meeting regularly -- when he made a set of highly disputed recess appointments, the Justice Department concluded. Page A12
EVANGELICALS BIDE TIME
Conservative Christian leaders have scaled back their goals for a meeting to be held in Texas, acknowledging that they are unlikely to agree on a single alternative candidate to Mitt Romney until after the South Carolina primary. Page A15
New York
BLOOMBERG BACKS EFFORT
TO RAISE MINIMUM WAGE
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, saying that wages for the poorest New Yorkers had not kept up with rising consumer costs, endorsed a proposal by the Assembly speaker to increase the state's minimum wage above the federal level of $7.25 an hour. Page A20
Obituaries
ROY L. ASH, 93
He used tough-minded analytic acumen to build a multibillion dollar conglomerate, Litton Industries, and to become a force in the Nixon White House, where he led the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency. Page B16
Business
CVS SETTLES CHARGES
ON PRESCRIPTION PRICE CASE
After an investigation lasting more than two years, CVS Caremark has agreed to pay $5 million to settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that the company had misrepresented the price of certain prescription drugs in one of its Medicare drug plans. Page B1
REASSURANCE AT AUCTIONS
Solid government debt auctions in Italy and Spain indicated that efforts by the European Central Bank to avoid a regional credit freeze were continuing to show at least short-term benefits. Page B1
THE BENEFITS OF YOGURT
Sales of Greek yogurt are booming and benefiting New York as a result. Leading brands have plants in the state and are expanding their operations, and the production jobs they entail. Page B1
FLAGGING SALES IN BRITAIN
A profit warning from Britain's largest retailer by sales was the latest sign that the economy there might be headed for a recession, or be in one already. Page B6
Sports
BULLS DEFEAT WIZARDS
AFTER GRUELING SCHEDULE
One of the brutal stretches that have become a signature of the condensed N.B.A. schedule ended at the United Center in Chicago when an undermanned, gassed Chicago Bulls team took the floor, defeating the Washington Wizards. Page B9
MARATHON TRIALS FOR KASTOR
Deena Kastor, the 2004 Olympic bronze medalist, will run her first marathon since April 2010, in Houston as she hopes to qualify for the 2012 Games. Page B12
Weekend
BEYOND THE BILLBOARDS,
PHILADELPHIA STORIES
In 2001 the artist Zoe Strauss devised a recurring exhibition of photographs on the columns supporting the elevated section of Interstate 95 in Philadelphia. That series, is at the core of ''Zoe Strauss: Ten Years,'' at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and on billboards around the city. Page C25
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); RELIGION (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); KIM JONG IL (57%); MITT ROMNEY (55%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CYPRUS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



571 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1114 words

PERSON: Roy Ash 

HEADLINE: Roy Ash, Powerful Budget Director for Nixon, Dies at 93

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Roy L. Ash, who used tough-minded analytic acumen to build a multibillion-dollar conglomerate, Litton Industries, and to become a force in the Nixon White House, where he headed the creation of agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93.
The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Lila, who confirmed the death on Thursday. It was not announced at the time. 
Mr. Ash, as director of the Office of Management and Budget, which was created on his recommendation, filled a power vacuum during the Watergate crisis in President Richard M. Nixon's second term. He had ''become a surrogate president, administering the Nixon policies,'' the White House correspondent John Herbers wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1974.
Earlier, as a private citizen, Mr. Ash headed a commission appointed by Nixon to recommend ways to reorganize the executive branch. He said his managerial experience juggling scores of companies at once had helped him in that effort.
The panel's recommendations led to the creation of some of the most prominent agencies in Washington today, consolidating functions in each that had been spread throughout the federal government, among them the Environmental Protection Agency, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
The O.M.B. director -- George P. Shultz was the first and Caspar Weinberger the second -- was immediately characterized as among the three or four most influential positions in the White House. The director's office was only slightly smaller than that of the president's chief of staff. The director's influence grew as Watergate distracted other top administration officials.
The rise of Mr. Ash, whom journalists called ''the human computer,'' was considered a Horatio Alger tale. Too poor to go to college, Mr. Ash was accepted in the legendary statistics division of the Army Air Forces, home to brilliant young men like Robert S. McNamara, the future defense secretary. Harvard Business School accepted Mr. Ash without a college diploma, and he graduated first in his class.
After the war, when McNamara was named president of the Ford Motor Company, Mr. Ash declined to follow him there to be one of his ''whiz kids.'' Instead he jumped into the hottest activity in 1960s business: building conglomerates. In 1953 he and his friend, Charles B. Thornton, scraped together $1.5 million in borrowed money to buy the company they named Litton Industries. It grew to include more than 100 companies -- involved in everything from selling trading stamps to making nuclear submarine -- with total sales exceeding $2.5 billion.
Mr. Ash had not been especially active in politics until after Nixon's election in 1968, when the president asked him to head the advisory council on government structure. Its 427-page report proposed what Nixon called the most extensive reorganization of the executive branch since 1789. In addition to carving out new agencies, it proposed consolidating government into four ''supercabinet'' departments. But as Nixon's power waned, Congress rejected those changes.
In 1972 Nixon made Mr. Ash the third director of the Office of Management and Budget, created from the old White House budget office. The new office oversaw the executive branch budget and exerted management control over cabinet departments.
Cabinet officers bristled at the new controls, while Congress resisted giving so much power to a presidential appointee who did not require Senate confirmation. Mr. Ash answered that to give the Senate such power would violate the constitution by diminishing the presidency. He said it would be like ''confirmation of the left hand of the president.''
The Senate was unswayed. In 1973 it voted to require confirmation hearings for appointments of O.M.B. directors and their deputies.
The son of a hay and grain dealer, Roy Lawrence Ash was born in Los Angeles on Oct. 20, 1918. After graduating from high school in 1935, he got a clerical job with the Bank of America. He enlisted in the Army in 1942. Mr. Thornton, who is credited with creating the first system of statistical controls in the armed services, chose Mr. Ash to be part of his team.
After the war and Harvard Business School, which he finished in 18 months, Mr. Ash returned to the Bank of America as chief statistician, and was controller of Hughes Aircraft, where Mr. Thornton was operating chief.
When they bought the Electro-Dynamics Corporation, which would become Litton, it was a small West Coast producer of microwave tubes. It became a major military contractor and was bought by Northrop Grumman in 2001.
When Mr. Ash was nominated as Nixon's management and budget officer, critics pointed to a civil court case in which accountants testified that Mr. Ash, while at Hughes in the early 1950s, had told them to alter figures so the Air Force would be overcharged on a contract. The accountants resigned in protest, and Hughes ultimately repaid $43 million to the Air Force.
There were also allegations that Hughes had forced Mr. Ash and Mr. Thornton to resign. But Nixon voiced full support for Mr. Ash, and he was confirmed.
As O.M.B. director, Mr. Ash had several run-ins with others in the administration. After Mr. Ash said the energy crisis was only ''short term,'' William E. Simon, head of the Federal Energy Office, told him to ''keep his cotton-pickin' hands off energy policy.''
Mr. Ash's hundreds of employees dwarfed the staffs of other White House aides, making it possible for O.M.B. to steer policy in ways the administration's domestic council could not. Herbert Stein, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, spoke of ''the Great God, O.M.B.''
Some journalists were put off by Mr. Ash's emphasis on data over personalities. The columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak likened being with him to ''sitting in a room with some chilled liver.''
Mr. Ash continued as O.M.B. director under President Gerald R. Ford for about seven months, departing in February 1975. Mr. Ash was later chairman and chief executive of AM International, which made electronic office equipment. He and his wife endowed the Roy and Lila Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
In addition to his wife, the former Lola Hornbek, Mr. Ash is survived by his sons, Charles, James and Robert; his daughters, Loretta Danko and Marilyn Hanna; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Mr. Ash had a quick wit. In 1975, President Ford asked him if he had any good economic news he could use in his State of the Union address. Mr. Ash replied, ''That'll take about four seconds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roy Ash, right, and Caspar Weinberger in Washington in 1973. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); POLITICS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); WRITERS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); AIR FORCES (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

RICHARD NIXON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Broadcasting

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



572 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Top Iran Leader Is Warned By U.S. On Strait Threat

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER, ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is relying on a secret channel of communication to warn Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, that closing the Strait of Hormuz is a ''red line'' that would provoke an American response, according to United States government officials.
The officials declined to describe the unusual contact between the two governments, and whether there had been an Iranian reply. Senior Obama administration officials have said publicly that Iran would cross a ''red line'' if it made good on recent threats to close the strait, a strategically crucial waterway connecting the Persian Gulf to the Gulf of Oman, where 16 million barrels of oil -- about a fifth of the world's daily oil trade -- flow through every day.
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said this past weekend that the United States would ''take action and reopen the strait,'' which could be accomplished only by military means, including minesweepers, warship escorts and potentially airstrikes. Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta told troops in Texas on Thursday that the United States would not tolerate Iran's closing of the strait. 
The secret communications channel was chosen to underscore privately to Iran the depth of American concern about rising tensions over the strait, where American naval officials say their biggest fear is that an overzealous Revolutionary Guards naval captain could do something provocative on his own, setting off a larger crisis.
''If you ask me what keeps me awake at night, it's the Strait of Hormuz and the business going on in the Arabian Gulf,'' Adm. Jonathan W. Greenert, the chief of naval operations, said in Washington this week.
Administration officials and Iran analysts said they continued to believe that Iran's threats to close the strait, coming amid deep frictions over Iran's nuclear program and possible sanctions, were bluster and an attempt to drive up the price of oil. Blocking the route for the vast majority of Iran's petroleum exports -- and for its food and consumer imports -- would amount to economic suicide.
''They would basically be taking a vow of poverty with themselves,'' said Dennis B. Ross, who until last month was one of President Obama's most influential advisers on Iran. ''I don't think they're in such a mood of self sacrifice.''
But Pentagon officials, who plan for every contingency, said that, however unlikely, Iran does have the military capability to close the strait. Although Iran's naval forces are hardly a match for those of the United States, for two decades Iran has been investing in the weaponry of ''asymmetric warfare'' -- mines, fleets of heavily armed speed boats and antiship cruise missiles hidden along Iran's 1,000 miles of Persian Gulf coastline -- which have become a threat to the world's most powerful navy.
''The simple answer is yes, they can block it,'' General Dempsey said on CBS on Sunday.
Estimates by naval analysts of how long it could take for American forces to reopen the strait range from a day to several months, but the consensus is that while Iran's naval forces could inflict damage, they would ultimately be destroyed.
''Their surface fleet would be at the bottom of the ocean, but they could score a lucky hit,'' said Michael Connell, the director of the Iranian studies program at the Center for Naval Analysis, a research organization for the Navy and Marine Corps. ''An antiship cruise missile could disable a carrier.''
Iran has two navies: one, its traditional state navy of aging big ships dating from the era of the shah, and the other a politically favored Revolutionary Guards navy of fast-attack speedboats and guerrilla tactics. Senior American naval officers say that the Iranian state navy is for the most part professional and predictable, but that the Revolutionary Guards navy, which has responsibility for the operations in the Persian Gulf, is not.
''You get cowboys who do their own thing,'' Mr. Connell said. One officer with experience at the Navy's Fifth Fleet headquarters in Bahrain said the Revolutionary Guards navy shows ''a high probability for buffoonery.''
The Revolutionary Guards navy has been steadily building and buying faster missile boats and stockpiling what American experts say are at least 2,000 naval mines. Many are relatively primitive, about the size of an American garbage can, and easy to slip into the water. ''Iran's credible mining threat can be an effective deterrent to potential enemy forces,'' an unclassified report by the Office of Naval Intelligence, the American Navy's intelligence arm, concluded in 2009. ''The Strait of Hormuz is a narrow chokepoint that could be mined effectively in a relatively short amount of time'' -- with disruptions within hours and more serious blockage in place over days.
Although the United States would respond with minesweepers, analysts said American naval forces might encounter layers of simultaneous attacks. The Iranians could launch antiship missiles from their coastline, islands or oil platforms and at the same time surround any American ship with missile-armed speedboats. ''The immediate issue is to get the mines,'' Mr. Connell said. ''But they're going to have to deal with the antiship cruise missiles and you'll have small boats swarming and it's all going to be happening at the same time.''
The United States could take out the antiship missile launchers with strikes from fighter jets or missiles, but analysts said it could take time to do so because the launchers on shore are mobile and often camouflaged.
The tight squeeze of the strait, which is less than 35 miles wide at its narrowest point, offers little maneuvering room for warships. ''It would be like a knife fight in a phone booth,'' said a senior Navy officer. The strait's shipping lanes are even narrower: both the inbound and outbound lanes are two miles wide, with only a two-mile-wide stretch separating them.
American officials indicated that the recent and delicate messages expressing concern about the Strait of Hormuz were conveyed through a channel other than the Swiss government, which the United States has often used as a neutral party to relay diplomatic messages to Tehran.
The United States and Iran have a history of conflicts in the strait -- most recently in January 2008, when the Bush administration chastised Iran for a ''provocative act'' after five armed Iranian speedboats approached three American warships in international waters, then maneuvered aggressively as radio threats were issued that the American ships would be blown up. The confrontation ended without shots fired or injuries.
In 2002, a classified, $250 million Defense Department war game concluded that small, agile speedboats swarming a naval convoy could inflict devastating damage on more powerful warships. In that game, the Blue Team navy, representing the United States, lost 16 major warships -- an aircraft carrier, cruisers and amphibious vessels -- when they were sunk to the bottom of the Persian Gulf in an attack that included swarming tactics by enemy speedboats.
''The sheer numbers involved overloaded their ability, both mentally and electronically, to handle the attack,'' Lt. Gen. Paul K. Van Riper, a retired Marine Corps officer who served in the war game as commander of a Red Team force representing an unnamed Persian Gulf military, said in 2008, when the results of the war game were assessed again in light of Iranian naval actions at the time. ''The whole thing was over in 5, maybe 10 minutes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about a warning from the Obama administration to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, that closing the Strait of Hormuz would be a ''red line'' that would provoke an American response misstated, in some editions, part of the name of the naval service in Iran that controls the operations in the Persian Gulf, including the strait. It is the Revolutionary Guards navy, not the Republican Guard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Iranian Navy conducted exercises in the Strait of Hormuz on Jan. 1. The government of Iran has threatened to close the strait. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBRAHIM NOROOZI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A10) MAPS: A Narrow and Vulnerable Strait: The shipping lanes through the Strait of Hormuz are only six miles wide and are vulnerable to attack by Iranian missiles. The strait could also be mined or ships could easily be attacked by armed Iranian speedboats. (Sources: University of Texas
 U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY VESSELS (87%); NAVAL VESSELS (87%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ALI KHAMENEI (73%); LEON E PANETTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



573 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Tension With Iran

 BODY:
With tensions rising over Iran's nuclear program, the Obama administration has now warned the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, that Iran's threat to close the Strait of Hormuz would provoke an American response. Earlier this week, international monitors confirmed that Iran has begun enriching uranium at a new underground plant. The United States and Europe are tightening sanctions to choke off Iranian oil revenues. On Wednesday, an Iranian nuclear scientist died in a bomb attack en route to work, and a government newspaper signaled that the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps might retaliate. 
Many officials, experts and commentators increasingly expect some kind of military confrontation. No one should want to see Iran, with its contempt for international law, acquire a nuclear weapon. But a military strike on the nuclear facilities would be a disaster.
We don't know whether any mix of sanctions and inducements could persuade Tehran to abandon its nuclear ambitions. There is another option besides force: negotiations with the United States and other major powers over curbing Iran's nuclear program in exchange for ending sanctions and diplomatic isolation. Iran's fractured leadership so far has not committed to serious talks, but President Obama and his allies have not paid enough attention to that alternative.
The United Nations Security Council demanded that Iran stop enriching uranium more than five years ago. Iran claims it only wants access to nuclear technology for electricity and other peaceful purposes. But that excuse is hollow. The major powers have said that power generation would be guaranteed if Iran abandons its weapons ambitions. Instead, Iran is still enriching uranium and mastering other technologies that would allow it to build a nuclear weapon. According to the latest report from United Nations inspectors, Iran has created computer models of nuclear explosions, conducted experiments on nuclear triggers and completed advanced research on a warhead that could be delivered by a medium-range missile.
An accelerating covert campaign of assassinations, bombings, cyberattacks and defections -- carried out mainly by Israel, according to The Times -- is slowing the program, but whether that is enough is unclear.
Economic pressure could be more effective if the United Nations Security Council ratcheted up its existing sanctions. A new round has been delayed by opposition from Russia and China. The United States and Europe have been imposing their own penalties, and Tehran's recent threat to shut the Strait of Hormuz, gateway to one-fifth of the world's oil trade, is an obvious sign of its growing economic desperation.
A new United States law that would penalize foreign companies that do business with Iran's central bank -- which they must do to buy Iranian oil -- and an oil embargo that European Union foreign ministers plan to approve on Jan. 23 could have an even bigger impact. The Obama administration and European officials seem likely to phase in these sanctions in a way that limits the damage to the world economy. On Thursday, Japan pledged to buy less Iranian oil, China and South Korea were looking for alternative suppliers, and India's intent was unclear. Tehran is more likely to respond if all the major importers apply pressure together.
The Americans and Europeans are working with Turkey to set up a new round of negotiations with Iran in Istanbul. The Iranians need to know that the economic pressure will not let up until they stop the nuclear program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CYBERCRIME (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ALI KHAMENEI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



574 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Plans for Big Cuts in Military Spending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Shrinking Military Budget May Take Neighbors With It'' (''The Next War'' series, front page, Jan. 7) overstates the importance of Pentagon research and development spending in spurring technological innovation. The boost given by Pentagon R.&D. expenditures to the larger economy has been in steep decline for some time.
The vast majority of the Pentagon's R.&D. budget -- over $60 billion -- goes to weapons development, which has little civilian spinoff. By contrast, Pentagon spending on basic research, which does have wider applicability, is only about $2 billion per year. 
We can afford to reduce Pentagon spending substantially without reducing our ability to make technological and scientific breakthroughs that have significant economic benefits.
WILLIAM D. HARTUNG New York, Jan. 7, 2012
The writer is the director of the Arms and Security Project at the Center for International Policy.
To the Editor:
Re ''A Leaner Pentagon'' (editorial, Jan. 6):
As a former assistant secretary of defense and assistant secretary general of NATO in the 1970s, I heartily concur that it is time for a serious evaluation of the strategic environment and our roles and responsibilities.
We have strong allies in NATO with shared security interests. We need not, therefore, assume that we must be prepared, with our forces alone, to face multiple possible contingencies. If we truly work to make the alliance forces cohesive and effective together, we can still play a leading role, but our individual need for manpower and equipment will be substantially lessened.
The current budget pressures may well lead us to do what will make our defense more effective.
GARDINER L. TUCKER Shelton, Conn., Jan. 7, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''Panetta to Offer Budget Strategy Cutting Military'' (''The Next War'' series, front page, Jan. 3):
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta's task of cutting hundreds of billions of dollars from the defense budget while retaining a competent military is not as drastic as your article describes if he reverses the growth in ground forces and expands the investment in air power.
President Obama and Mr. Panetta now recognize that the precision, efficiency, low cost and near zero casualties offered by a strategy based on air power allow them to withdraw sooner from Afghanistan and attack Al Qaeda effectively from wherever it chooses to operate. At the same time, we can build our air forces to deter aggression in Asia and elsewhere.
Air power provides the capabilities, flexibility and long range need to fulfill Mr. Panetta's strategy of fighting and winning one major conflict, while being able to ''spoil'' a second adversary's ambitions in another part of the world, and countering terrorism.
But Congress keeps talking about cutting the very programs needed to do this -- modern fighters, long-range bombers, drones and global surveillance assets. Instead, we need to invest in these systems to replace our worn-out air power assets, not cut them.
Mr. Panetta's strategy is right. To make it work, we must underwrite it with a robust modernization of air power forces.
JOHN MICHAEL LOH Williamsburg, Va., Jan. 3, 2012
The writer, a retired general, is a former Air Force vice chief of staff and former commander of the Air Combat Command.
To the Editor:
Your excellent article about military budget cuts briefly encouraged me to believe that perhaps budget problems might finally produce a more rational American foreign policy. But then I came to my senses, remembering that such considerations rarely if ever constrain our hubris.
The last administration did not feel so constrained; it merely took the costs ''off budget.'' The current administration seems little more inclined, if at all, to define our interests more realistically.
Even your distinguished newspaper shows little evidence of moving very far away from the deeply ingrained idea that we are the policeman of the world, that any challenge to the status quo endangers us.
After the tragedy of Vietnam, it seemed for a while that we had sobered up, but we got over that and are back on track pursuing our disastrous policy of ''perpetual war for perpetual peace.''
The wreckage is all around us, domestic and foreign. I despair.
WILLIAM P. GERBERDING Seattle, Jan. 3, 2012
The writer is president emeritus of the University of Washington.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALLISON KRUMWIEDE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); WRITERS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); AL-QAEDA (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (79%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



575 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Rollback of a Health Insurer's 'Excessive' Rate Increase

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said Thursday that rate increases sought by a health insurance company were unreasonable, and it ordered the insurer to rescind them or justify its refusal to do so.
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, issued the finding against the carrier, Trustmark Life Insurance Company, a unit of Trustmark Mutual Holding Company.
Ms. Sebelius said that ''the excessive rate increases'' would affect nearly 10,000 people in Alabama, Arizona, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wyoming. 
''It's time for Trustmark to immediately rescind the rates, issue refunds to consumers or publicly explain their refusal to do so,'' Ms. Sebelius said, wielding power granted by the new health care law.
The action fits in with White House efforts to demonstrate the value of the new health care law and to portray President Obama as fighting for the economic interests of middle-class families in this election year.
Cindy Gallaher, a spokeswoman for Trustmark, based in Lake Forest, Ill., said: ''We respectfully disagree with the assumptions and conclusions drawn today by the Department of Health and Human Services. Our premiums are driven by the rising cost and increased utilization of medical services.''
''Trustmark has been and will continue to be in compliance with all aspects'' of the law, Ms. Gallaher added.
The law, signed by President Obama in March 2010, set detailed federal standards for health insurance, which had for decades been regulated mainly by the states. The law calls for the annual review of ''unreasonable increases in premiums.'' Under rules issued last year by Ms. Sebelius, rate increases of 10 percent or more must be reviewed by state or federal officials.
The administration used its rate review authority once before, on a smaller scale, in an effort to stop what it described as an unreasonable rate increase of 12 percent by the Everence Insurance Company in Pennsylvania. The company says the increase reflects the cost of providing coverage to small businesses there.
Mr. Obama unsuccessfully sought the power to block rate increases deemed unreasonable, a power that some states have. Even without that authority, administration officials said, their ability to challenge and publicize large increases provides a significant new protection for consumers.
The administration did not release details of its calculations, but said that Trustmark was seeking rate increases of 13 percent in each of the five states. Combined with other rate changes in the last 12 months, it said, these proposals would result in rate increases averaging 27 percent in Alabama, 18 percent in Arizona and 15 percent in Pennsylvania.
The company cited the rising costs of hospital care, doctors' services and prescription drugs as a reason for seeking higher rates.
Nationally, health spending rose at exceptionally low rates in 2009 and 2010, as the recession prompted many people to postpone care they could not afford because they had lost jobs, income and health insurance.
Under the new law, insurers must spend at least 80 percent of premium revenues on medical care and efforts to improve it.
Gary Cohen, acting director of insurance oversight at the Department of Health and Human Services, said Trustmark did not meet this standard in any of the five states.
Ms. Gallaher, the spokeswoman for Trustmark, said the share of premiums paid out in benefits, known as the medical loss ratio, ''can vary significantly from year to year.''
''If there are instances where we do not reach the required loss ratio as calculated under federal regulations,'' Ms. Gallaher said, ''we will, promptly and in accordance with the Affordable Care Act, rebate the difference to customers.''
The federal government reviews insurance rate increases in states where it finds that state officials lack the authority or capacity to do so effectively. With encouragement from Washington, a number of states have hired actuaries to analyze proposed rate increases and authorized state officials to reject those found to be excessive.
Ms. Sebelius praised Connecticut, New York and Oregon for forcing insurers to scale back rate increases.
In Louisiana, Missouri and Montana, Mr. Cohen said, proposed rate increases of more than 10 percent have been found reasonable, in relation to the benefits provided.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); FAMILY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: TRUSTMARK COS (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



576 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Fed in '06: Coming Crisis, and Banter

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the housing bubble entered its waning hours in 2006, top Federal Reserve officials marveled at the desperate antics of home builders seeking to lure buyers.
The officials laughed about the cars that builders were offering as signing bonuses, and about efforts to make empty homes look occupied. They joked about one builder who said that inventory was ''rising through the roof.''
But the officials, meeting every six weeks to discuss the health of the nation's economy, gave little credence to the possibility that the faltering housing market would weigh on the broader economy, according to transcripts that the Fed released Thursday. Instead they continued to tell one another throughout 2006 that the greatest danger was inflation -- the possibility that the economy would grow too fast.
''We think the fundamentals of the expansion going forward still look good,'' Timothy F. Geithner, then president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told his colleagues when they gathered in Washington in December 2006. 
Some officials, including Susan Bies, a Fed governor, suggested that a housing downturn actually could bolster the economy by redirecting money to other kinds of investments.
And there was general acclaim for Alan Greenspan, who stepped down as chairman at the beginning of the year, for presiding over one of the longest economic expansions in the nation's history. Mr. Geithner suggested that Mr. Greenspan's greatness still was not fully appreciated, an opinion now held by a much smaller number of people.
Meanwhile, by the end of 2006, the economy already was shrinking by at least one important measure, total income. And by the end of the next year, the Fed had started its desperate struggle to prevent the collapse of the financial system and to avert the onset of what could have been the nation's first full-fledged depression in about 70 years.
The transcripts of the 2006 meetings, released after a standard five-year delay, clearly show some of the nation's pre-eminent economic minds did not fully understand the basic mechanics of the economy that they were charged with shepherding. The problem was not a lack of information; it was a lack of comprehension, born in part of their deep confidence in economic forecasting models that turned out to be broken.
''It's embarrassing for the Fed,'' said Justin Wolfers, an economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''You see an awareness that the housing market is starting to crumble, and you see a lack of awareness of the connection between the housing market and financial markets.''
''It's also embarrassing for economics,'' he continued. ''My strong guess is that if we had a transcript of any other economist, there would be at least as much fodder.''
Many of the officials who appear in the transcripts have since spoken publicly about the Fed's failings in the years before the crisis. But the transcripts provide a raw and detailed account of those errors as they were made. Evidence of problems in the housing market accumulated at each meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy for the central bank.
''We are getting reports that builders are now making concessions and providing upgrades, such as marble countertops and other extras, and in one case even throwing in a free Mini Cooper to sweeten the deal,'' George C. Guynn, then president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said at the June meeting.
The committee consists of the governors of the Federal Reserve and the presidents of the 12 regional banks.
''The speed of the falloff in housing activity and the deceleration in house prices continue to surprise us,'' Janet Yellen, then president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in September.
One builder she spoke with, she said, ''toured some new subdivisions on the outskirts of Boise and discovered that the houses, most of which are unoccupied, are now being dressed up to look occupied -- with curtains, things in the driveway, and so forth -- so as not to discourage potential buyers.''
For a famously private institution known for its cryptic, formulaic statements, the meeting transcripts offer a rare glimpse of senior officials in relatively unguarded conversation, somewhat akin to the tapes that some presidents have made in the Oval Office. The Fed officials exchange jokes, gossip about people who are not present, and speak much more frankly about the economy and policy than they did in the public remarks that they made contemporaneously.
The results are unlikely to burnish any of their reputations, inasmuch as they could not see the widening cracks beneath their feet. But the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, appears as the most consistent voice of warning that problems in the housing market could have broader consequences.
The general consensus on the board, summarized by Mr. Geithner, was that problems in the housing market had few broader ramifications. ''We just don't see troubling signs yet of collateral damage, and we are not expecting much,'' he said at the September meeting.
Mr. Bernanke initially agreed, telling colleagues at his first meeting as chairman, in March, ''I think we are unlikely to see growth being derailed by the housing market.''
As the year rolled along, however, Mr. Bernanke increasingly took the view that his colleagues were too sanguine.
''I don't have quite as much confidence as some people around the table that there will be no spillover effect,'' he said.
As for Mr. Geithner, who became Treasury secretary in 2009, his spokesman, Anthony Coley, said, ''Secretary Geithner was an early source of initiative at the Fed to reduce risk and make the financial system more resilient even before 2006.''
Some Fed officials argued that a housing slowdown would be good for the broader economy.
''I really believe that the drop in housing is actually on net going to make liquidity available for other sectors rather than being a drain going forward, and that will also get the growth rate more positive,'' Ms. Bies told colleagues at the committee's June meeting. Ms. Bies could not be reached for comment Thursday.
And even Ms. Yellen did not believe that the problems in the housing market would have broader consequences. ''Of course, housing is a relatively small sector of the economy, and its decline should be self-correcting,'' she said.
One fundamental reason for this blindness was that Fed officials did not understand how deeply intertwined the housing sector and financial markets had become. They also were convinced that financial innovations, by distributing the risk of losses more broadly, had increased the strength and resilience of the system as a whole.
''I would say that the capital markets are probably more profitable and more robust at this moment, or at least going into the six-week opportunity, than they have perhaps ever been,'' Kevin Warsh, the Fed governor who watched Wall Street most closely, said at the meeting in September 2006. Three months later Mr. Warsh said almost exactly the same thing. He did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment Thursday.
For the Fed 2006 began with the departure of Mr. Greenspan, who presided in January over his final meeting as Fed chairman and was then widely regarded as the epitome of a central banker, a master who had guided the American economy through almost 20 years of remarkably consistent growth.
''I'd like the record to show that I think you're pretty terrific, too,'' Mr. Geithner said in adding his voice to the chorus of tributes at that final meeting. ''And thinking in terms of probabilities, I think the risk that we decide in the future that you're even better than we think is higher than the alternative.''
Ms. Yellen said: ''It's fitting for Chairman Greenspan to leave office with the economy in such solid shape. The situation you're handing off to your successor is a lot like a tennis racquet with a gigantic sweet spot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HISTORY (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



577 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Backs Effort To Raise Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR and THOMAS KAPLAN; Patrick McGeehan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, saying that wages for the poorest New Yorkers had not kept up with rising consumer costs, endorsed a proposal on Thursday by the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, to increase the state's minimum wage above the federal level of $7.25 an hour.
''The genius of the free market is not always perfect,'' the mayor said in his annual State of the City speech, delivered at Morris High School in the Bronx. Noting that two of New York's neighbors had recently raised their hourly minimum wage -- Connecticut to $8.25, Massachusetts to $8 -- he said that he would support doing the same in New York. 
''While we would prefer the federal government to act to keep us competitive, this year we will join Speaker Shelly Silver in pushing for a responsible raise in the minimum wage,'' he said.
Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, announced his proposal in a brief speech before Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's State of the State address last week. He has not yet introduced legislation, but he is expected to call for the hourly minimum wage to be increased to at least $8.25 and be indexed to inflation.
The governor, also a Democrat, has supported increasing the minimum wage in the past, but has not commented on Mr. Silver's call for an increase this year.
''We'll review any proposal that is made,'' Mr. Cuomo's spokesman, Josh Vlasto, said Thursday.
The Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, has not yet taken a position on the issue.
Mr. Silver and other advocates of raising the minimum wage embraced the mayor's comments.
''I applaud and thank Mayor Bloomberg for joining our call to increase the minimum wage,'' Mr. Silver said in a statement.
And Christine Owens, the executive director of the National Employment Law Project, a nonprofit organization focused on increasing economic opportunity, said, ''Mayor Bloomberg's statement is a welcome recognition that a strong minimum wage will help boost consumer demand and spur economic recovery.''
Business groups, however, expressed reservations.
A spokesman for the Business Council of New York State, Robert Lillpopp, said raising the minimum wage ''would only hurt New York's small businesses, farms and not-for-profits that are struggling to make their current payrolls, and reduce job opportunities in an already difficult economy.''
Kathryn Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City, a network of business leaders, said the partnership had supported an increase in the minimum wage several years ago and ''would consider another increase, but only after understanding the implications for the entire state economy.''
One City Council member, Annabel Palma of the Bronx, saw Mr. Bloomberg's support for increasing the minimum wage as a poor substitute for endorsing the so-called living wage bill currently before the Council, which would raise wages for workers in city-subsidized developments to $10 an hour with benefits, or $11.50 an hour without benefits. Mr. Bloomberg has said that the measure would hinder development and is expected to veto the bill if it is passed by the Council.
In a statement, Ms. Palma said, ''If the mayor wants to really get serious about fighting poverty and creating sustainable economic development, he should propose actionable plans at the city level,'' including ''dropping his opposition to the living wage.''
New Jersey may also soon raise its minimum wage. The speaker of the State Assembly, Sheila Oliver, said this week that she would push to raise the state's minimum wage to $8.50 from $7.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



578 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Obama Raised $42 Million in Last Quarter, Far More Than G.O.P. Rivals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's campaign raised $42 million in the final three months of 2011, easily besting his Republican rivals and matching where President George W. Bush was at the same point in his re-election bid.
In an e-mail to supporters on Thursday morning, Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, reported that the Democratic National Committee also raised an additional $24 million during the quarter for a combined total of $66 million that can be used for the campaign. 
''That's a pretty good start,'' Mr. Messina said in a video on the campaign's Web site. He added that 583,000 people donated to the campaign in the quarter, including more than 200,000 who had never contributed to Mr. Obama in the past.
Mr. Obama's campaign and the Democratic National Committee have raised about $244 million so far in this election cycle, a total that is sure to grow substantially once Republicans settle on a nominee.
Mitt Romney, the leading contender in the Republican contest, raised $24 million in the final three months of last year and a total of $56 million since he entered the race last summer. Mr. Romney, a former venture capital executive, raised far more money than any of his party's rivals. The Republican National Committee, meanwhile, raised $27 million in the fourth quarter of the year.
If Mr. Romney becomes the nominee, he is sure to increase his fund-raising sharply as conservative donors who have been helping to finance other Republican candidates rally around the party's pick to try to turn Mr. Obama out of office.
Mr. Romney's financial advisers have already been quietly courting donors for Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. Some of Mr. Perry's donors have said they have given up on his White House chances but are wary of publicly abandoning him because he will still be governor even if he drops out of the presidential contest.
But the battle for dollars between Mr. Obama and his Republican rival will play out against the backdrop of a new money chase by third-party groups known as ''super PACs.''
Already, groups on both sides have pledged to raise hundreds of millions of dollars from corporations and wealthy individuals -- a practice made legal by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision two years ago. The impact of the decision has been felt in the Republican primary in the last two weeks as wealthy interests have begun to pay for attack ads against Mr. Romney and Newt Gingrich.
For Mr. Obama, the fund-raising announcement suggests he remains a prolific financial draw. The only recent campaign to come close to those numbers was Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, which raised about $239 million in cooperation with the Republican National Committee in 2003.
But the fact that Mr. Obama's total was not significantly higher than Mr. Bush's may indicate how much harder it is to raise money in an economic downturn.
In any event, contributions to the Obama campaign are helping to finance a huge, national infrastructure that the president's team is building even as the Republican contest to pick a nominee is fully under way.
At a fund-raiser in Chicago on Wednesday night, Mr. Obama told donors and supporters, ''I'm going to need all of you just as much now, more now than I needed you in 2008.''
He added, ''The main message I've got is that if you guys are willing to invest the same kind of blood, sweat and tears as we invested in 2008, I'm confident we're going to win.''
The president's Republican rivals have repeatedly cited the specter of a billion-dollar Democratic re-election campaign as a way to motivate their supporters to donate. Mr. Messina has used expletives to reject the notion that the president would raise $1 billion, and on Thursday morning again he said the idea was ''just wrong.'' He suggested that it was contributing to a problem for the president's fund-raisers: supporters who think that the campaign does not need their money.
''Too many Obama supporters genuinely believe that this campaign doesn't really need their donations, or doesn't need them yet, in order to compete and win,'' Mr. Messina said in the e-mail. ''That's wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with supporters on Wednesday at a Chicago fund-raiser. Both parties are sure to collect more donations once a Republican nominee is chosen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JIM MESSINA (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



579 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Some Lenders To Students Face Greater U.S. Scrutiny

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is stepping up its scrutiny of nontraditional lenders to students at profit-making colleges and trade schools that have high rates of default, the newly appointed director of the bureau said Thursday. 
The director, Richard Cordray, compared the practices of some parts of the student loan business to those of the subprime mortgage lending machine that contributed to the financial crisis.
''We're seeing some of the schools anticipating as much as a 50 percent default rate on their students, yet they're making those loans anyway,'' Mr. Cordray said at a news briefing.
''We will be looking closely at those loans. We will be looking closely at the tactics by which they are marketed and making sure that the law is being followed,'' he said.
Mr. Cordray was appointed the bureau's director by President Obama last week during a Senate recess, after Republicans resisted bringing his nomination to the floor for a vote.
A memorandum from the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel released Thursday concluded that Mr. Obama had the authority to make the recess appointment, an assertion that has been disputed by Republicans.
The consumer bureau indicated earlier that it was interested in the subject of predatory student loans. In November, the bureau and the Education Department issued a joint request for information from consumers on the private student loan market, a study that was mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law. The deadline for comments is Tuesday.
Mr. Cordray said Thursday that the bureau had already seen evidence of problems in the market for private student loans.
''One of the things we see and have seen is lenders who market loans for borrowers knowing that those borrowers are unlikely to be able to pay those loans,'' Mr. Cordray said. ''But they may have other incentives that lead them to make those loans nonetheless. We clearly saw that in the mortgage market in the run-up to the financial crisis, when that market got broken. We also see it, say, in student lending as well.''
Holly Petraeus, the consumer bureau's assistant director for service member affairs, said in an opinion article in The New York Times in September that private, profit-making colleges often see members of the military ''as nothing more than dollar signs in uniform'' and use ''aggressive marketing to draw them in and take out private loans,'' producing higher than average default rates.
In response, the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities said on its Web site that Mrs. Petraeus's claims were ''not substantiated'' and ignored that two-year profit-making colleges ''outperform community colleges in terms of graduation rates three to one'' while serving a larger percentage of at-risk students like single mothers, less-affluent students, older workers and military personnel.
Mr. Cordray said that the bureau recognized that many students needed loans and that it would focus on cases where students were being misled. ''People who get steered into terrible loans will end up falling behind in life,'' he said. ''That should be of concern to this country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



580 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: The C.E.O. In Politics

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
There are two questions concerning Mitt Romney's service at the private equity firm Bain Capital. The narrower question is: Did Bain help ailing companies and add value to the economy or did it plunder dying firms? The larger question is: Does Romney's success in business tell us anything about whether he would be a successful president?
Let's tackle the bigger question here. 
At first blush, business success would seem to be good preparation for political success. A C.E.O. learns to set priorities, manage organizations and hone analytic skills. But these traits are more transferable to being a mayor, which is more administrative, than to being president.
Moreover, for every Michael Bloomberg who successfully moves from business to politics, there is a Jon Corzine, Donald Rumsfeld, Donald Regan, Meg Whitman or Carly Fiorina -- former executives who were either unsuccessful in political office or who couldn't get elected in the first place. If you look back over history, you see that while business success can sensitize a politician to the realities other executives face, there's little correlation between business success and political success.
The traits that actually correlate with successful presidencies have deeper roots.
First, successful presidents tend to be emotionally secure. They have none of the social resentments and desperate needs that plagued men like Richard Nixon. Instead they were raised, often in an aristocratic family, with a sense that they were the natural leaders of the nation. They were infused, often at an elite prep school, with a sense of obligation and responsibility to perform public service.
Whether it is a George Washington, a Franklin or Theodore Roosevelt or a John F. Kennedy, this sort of president enters the White House with ease and confidence, is relatively unscathed by the criticism of the crowd, is able to separate the mask he must wear for public display from the real honest self he knows himself to be.
This sense of emotional security can also be found in great military leaders, like Dwight Eisenhower, and in serenely successful movie stars, like Ronald Reagan.
Second, great presidents tend to have superb political judgment. In his essay on this subject, Isaiah Berlin defines political judgment as ''a capacity for integrating a vast amalgam of constantly changing, multicolored, evanescent perpetually overlapping data.''
A president with political judgment has a subtle feel for the texture of his circumstance. He has a feel for where opportunities lie, what will go together and what will never go together. This implicit knowledge is developed slowly in people like Harry Truman or Lyndon Johnson who have spent decades as political insiders and who have a rich repertoire of experiences to draw on.
It also comes from voracious social contact. It comes to leaders who have a compulsive desire to be around people and who can harvest from a million social encounters a sense of what people want and can deliver.
Third, great leaders have often experienced crushing personal setbacks. This experience, whether it's Lincoln's depression or F.D.R.'s polio, not only gives them a sense of sympathy for those who are suffering, but a personal contact with frailty. They are resilient when things go wrong. They know how dependent they are on others, how prone they are to overconfidence. They are both modest, because they have felt weakness, and aggressive, because they know how hard it is to change anything.
Finally, great leaders tend to have an instrumental mentality. They do not feel the office is about them. They are just God's temporary instrument in service of a larger cause. Lincoln felt he was God's instrument in preserving the union. F.D.R. felt he was an instrument to help the common man and defeat fascism.
This sense of being an instrument gives them an organizing purpose. It gives them a longer perspective, so they don't get distracted by ephemera. It means their administration marches in one direction, even though it is flexible and willing to accept incremental gains along the way.
In sum, great presidents are often aristocrats and experienced political insiders. They experience great setbacks. They feel the presence of God's hand on their every move.
Unfortunately, we're not allowed to talk about these things openly these days. We disdain elitism, political experience and explicit God-talk. Great failure is considered ''baggage'' in today's campaign lingo.
Today's candidates have to invent bogus story lines to explain their qualifications to be president -- that they are innocent outsiders or business whizzes. In reality, Romney's Bain success is largely irrelevant to the question of whether he could be a good president. The real question is whether he has picked up traits like emotional security, political judgment and an instrumental mind-set from his upbringing and the deeper experiences of life.
We'll learn more about that as he confronts brutal attacks that now besiege him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JON CORZINE (56%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



581 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Texan's Anti-Piracy Bill Gets Home State Pushback

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Technology companies and business advocates in Texas agree that online crimes are a problem, but they contend that Lamar Smith's SOPA bill would do more harm than good. 

 BODY:
Lamar Smith introduced the Stop Online Piracy Act in October to tackle the problem, but the bill has received a cold reception in Mr. Smith's home state, reports Becca Arronson in The New York Times. Technology companies and business advocates in Texas agree that cyber crimes are a problem, but they contend that Mr. Smith's bill would cause greater economic damage, particularly to Texas' growing technology sector. Read more 

        
Daily Report: The Boycott Against SOPA Supporters
        
Today's Scuttlebot: Dead Benjamins and Spy Apps
        
Daily Report: Congress Considers Bills to Prevent Piracy
        
A Forward Step on Piracy in China, Software Makers Say
        
Illegal Downloads of Fox Shows on the Rise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ONLINE PIRACY (91%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); CYBERCRIME (88%); BOYCOTTS (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%) piracy; SOPA; Data; Policy

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



582 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Some Good Economic News, but Will It Last?

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: With demand likely to remain weak in 2012 and gridlock in Congress likely to continue, the current year is unlikely to bring a strong economic recovery, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
In recent weeks, a series of encouraging reports on the United States economy, culminating in the December employment report, has provided tantalizing evidence that the recovery is strengthening. But it's too early to celebrate. 
Both 2010 and 2011 started with good economic news and forecasts of a strong growth rebound but proved to be disappointing. Despite recent signs of strength, most forecasts for 2012 predict that growth will fall short of 2.5 percent, the rate required to absorb anticipated increments to the labor force, and that's assuming Congress extends the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits through the year. 
Right now, it looks as though the United States economy will continue to recover at a moderate pace in 2012. But there are considerable downside risks that could cause growth to falter.

The central problem remainsinadequate aggregate demand - both at home and around the world. The shortfall in demand is reflected in unutilized resources, notably unemployed and underemployed workers and idle plant and machinery. 
The level of output in the United States is now higher than it was in the fourth quarter of 2007 but still far below the level that could be produced if existing resources were fully utilized. A recent Treasury estimate puts the gap between actual and potential output at more than 7 percent - or more than $1 trillion of goods and services. 
The output gaps are even larger in many European economies, some of which never regained their 2007 output levels and have fallen into another recession that is now spreading throughout Europe.
In the United States, high levels of unemployment, weak wage gains and a steep decline in home values continue to constrain consumption, which accounts for about 70 percent of aggregate demand. Real disposable personal income actually decreased in the second and third quarters of 2011 and was essentially unchanged for the year. 
The uptick in consumer spending in the last months of 2011 was offset by a worrying drop in the household saving rate, which fell to 3.5 percent, down from an average of 5.3 percent in 2010 and less than half its long-term historical average of 8 percent. 
A sustained increase in household saving is necessary to make a significant and permanent dent in household debt, which still hovers at near-record levels relative to household incomes. 
But instead of saving more, households borrowed more at the end of 2011, and consumer debt registered its largest increase in percentage terms since October 2001. This trend is neither healthy nor sustainable. 
The December employment report showed promising signs of growth in labor incomes fueled by an increase in hours worked and an increase in hourly wages. With hours and wages both up, average weekly earnings rose at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the last three months of 2011. 
But with an unemployment rate of 8.5 percent, a labor-force participation rate of only 64 percent and 6.6 million fewer jobs than in December 2007, aggregate labor income has fallen to a historic low of 44 percent of national income. And labor income is the most important component of household income, which, in turn, is the major driver of consumer spending. 
Labor's share of national income tends to rise in recessions as companies hold on to workers, but the 2008 recession was different; companies shed workers at a terrifying pace and labor income plummeted. At the current pace of job creation, the labor share of income is not likely to recover its pre-recession level for a long time. 
According to the Hamilton Project, the United States still has a "jobs gap" of 12.1 million jobs, and even with monthly job growth at the December 2011 rate of 200,000 jobs a month, the gap will not close until 2024. 
Corporate profits are at an historic high as a share of national income, and business investment in plants and equipment has been strong, fueled in large measure by robust demand in emerging economies. But growth in these economies is also poised to slow in 2012 as recession in Europe and lower commodity prices eat into their exports. 
In addition, emerging economies face tighter credit conditions, as European banks scale back their cross-border loans and build their capital, and as global investors reduce their risk exposure in response to the sovereign debt crisis gripping the euro zone. 
With weaker consumption growth at home, the United States must rebalance future growth toward more exports. President Obama has set an achievable goal of doubling American exports over five years. 
But recession in Europe and a slowdown in emerging economies will dampen American export markets in 2012. If concerns over the European debt crisis lead to a stronger dollar, as seems likely, that too will make the rebalancing and export goals more elusive. 
And with a worldwide shortage of aggregate demand, there will be a strong temptation for countries to adopt zero-sum protectionist policies in 2012 to keep demand at home and to block access to their markets. 
Barriers to market access are already a source of trade friction between the United States and China, which is the second-largest American export market. President Obama just announced an interagency task force to monitor "unfair" trading and business practices by China, and the United States is already investigating or pursuing market-access complaints against China on a variety of products in the World Trade Organization. 
Given the large and persistent jobs deficit and the considerable risks to a sustained recovery in 2012, additional fiscal measures to increase aggregate demand are warranted - but Tea-Party obstructionism and election-year politics make them highly unlikely. 
President Obama proposed a $450 billion package of such measures in October, but the package died in Congress despite compelling evidence that it would have supported about two million jobs over two years. 
At this point, it is not even certain that the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits will be extended through the rest of this year. What is certain is that we will hear a lot about job creation from Republican Congressional and presidential candidates but will see little action by a Congress mired in gridlock. 
The danger in 2012 is not too much fiscal stimulus, but too much fiscal austerity. The same danger is stalking Europe and could lead to a sovereign default by a euro-zone country and the breakup of the euro. 
Such an event, considered unthinkable just a few months ago but viewed as a real risk now, would plunge Europe and the United States into recession, with negative reverberations throughout the global economy. 
For all of these reasons, 2012 is likely to be another difficult and disappointing year for the United States economy. The recent news has been promising but it's too early to bring out the Champagne. 

        
Misrepresentations, Regulations and Jobs
        
Jobs Deficit, Investment Deficit, Fiscal Deficit
        
What's a Crisis and What Isn't
        
The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits
        
Unemployment Compensation Over Time

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); EURO ZONE (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); EURO CRISIS (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%) Chinese economy; consumer spending; Daily Economist; employment; euro zone; European debt crisis; international economics; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; politics; Savings; tax cuts; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; World Trade Organization; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



583 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: The State of the City, in Your Words

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: With more than 50 dispatches from around the city, readers provided a detailed supplement to the mayor's State of the City address. 

 BODY:
Crumbling curb cuts in Rego Park. Yellow rivers in the East 70s. Neighborhood-sustaining tamale vendors at a South Bronx subway stop. Looking for a more granular supplement to the mayor's sweeping State of the City address, we asked you for the State of your Block. 
Just like last year, you came through, with more than 50 thoughtful dispatches from many corners of the city, including a happy update from a Staten Island stalwart on the fate of the burned-out former crack house across the street.
Here are a few of our favorites so far (you can still send yours in). Thanks again, and start taking notes for next year's edition. 
Clifton Place between Bedford and Nostrand Aves., Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn 
The block is magnificent, I have to say. My neighbor's five video cameras on the front of his 15-foot-wide building can attest to that. The streets are nicely paved, which makes it easy for cars to drive at maximum speed down the block trying to catch the light. The young boys who used to play football on the sidewalk have grown and now play in the street providing a speed bump/acceleration opportunity for the neighborhood's angriest drivers. 
Since the weather has been warm, the old guys who hang out on the corner have stayed out there and appear to have multiplied!? The coffee shops are packed, as is the newish high-end bar restaurant at the end of the block. New faces are moving on to the block every day, some with babies.
Fortunately, no one has tried to illegally gain access to our house from the back door this season and there are even fewer helicopters circling. I used to wonder "what one must do to get the NYPD to release the choppers?" Following the shooting at the hair salon, I got my answer.
No more barking dogs, we gave ours back to the shelter; no more cats pooping in our yard, those neighbors moved away. The wind still carries the (more than) occasional scent of cannabis down the block. All in all, I can't complain.
 - PETE
Ditmars Blvd. and 38th St., Astoria, Queens 
Though I put in to have the block receive trees from the Million Trees campaign two years ago, no trees have been planted. When I checked my request, the city claims to have lost it.
So 38th street, while filled with lovely neighbors, is an eyesore, two trees to the whole block. And there are still the regular window-smashing car thieves on the loose.
 - E. BRONTE
Austin Place between 144th and 147th Sts., Mott Haven, the Bronx 
Here on Austin Place we wake up to the sound of a rooster kept in a lot by a homeless alcoholic. There is surprisingly little crime but desolate at night. Graffiti artists tap their feet on the roofs and in the morning one smells thick acrid fried chicken residue in the air.
There is the occasional illegal ATV with teenage miscreant driving around. The police are available for parking tickets and not much else. The best food is from the Mexican woman by the subway who makes tamales. So far the city has not shut her down.
Still, our little block is an economic powerhouse with small businesses made from nothing employing folks and making things. Too bad the city does everything in its power to thwart that.
 - PATRICK ECK
E. 117th St. between Park and Lexington Aves., East Harlem
I just moved to East Harlem in May. My first stop after moving in was for coffee at the cafe, where the owner told me I had moved to "a bad block."
I chose the apartment in East Harlem for its low rent, proximity to the 116th 6 train stop, the useful businesses around every corner and the vibrant energy I felt emerging from the subway. I was also comforted by the beautiful St. Paul's church across the street from my building, which reminds me of my grandparents and their love for the Lady of Guadalupe. I use it as a sanctuary for meditation, and the nuns are to be seen in the community, working hard to help the poor, which I find so honorable.
I also love that on the Park Avenue end of my block, there's the Urban Garden Center under the Metro North tracks. At night, I can smell the Fat Witch Brownie's and Sarabeth's bakery activity wafting through my windows.
The first thing I noticed upon moving in, however, was the proliferation of openly drunk men at the corner of 117th and Lex. They also like to hang out in front of my building at night. One man even likes to use my elevator for a urinal and believes himself to be doing me and my fellow tenants a favor by holding the door open for us at night, as he squats in the vestibule.
 - CC REYES
Beach 89th St., Rockaway Beach, Queens 
Beach 89th Street is a mess of construction -- on the street, below the street and on the elevated tracks that abut the block. But the vibe is positive: residents are happy to see improvements to our infrastructure, and delighted that our newly refurbished A train station will be adorned with stunning stained glass artwork. Feeling pretty positive about our evolving neighborhood. - AKP 
Carlton and Flatbush Aves., Prospect Heights, Brooklyn 
Rents are skyrocketing, crime is up and the middle class is non-existent. Store prices have nearly doubled in the last year, particularly for food. Most good stores closed and chains took their place. The former postal franchise sits empty after a year because the landlord refuses to rent for anything but an absurd price.
The same landlord who owns most buildings on the same block, who went to court to kill the last little store, which wanted to stay, but the landlord took $$ under the table from Crunch, so it could expand in the space. Land of the $5 tomato. Only rich whites can afford to live here anymore.
Ratner's stadium and luxury housing (don't believe any will end up "affordable) is causing $10 burger places to spring up, and his Atlantic mall is robbery central. Three people in my building lost their jobs. Weekly, cellphones snatched from hands by passing bikers. Bikers, emboldened, run red lights, bike holding coffee cups, bike with ear buds. Nice 2011, Bloomberg. Another few years of this and the BK will be unrecognizable. No one who works in the stores, polices the block, builds the buildings, etc. can afford to live here. And their commute is more hellish than ever. - BILL
E. 12th St. between First and Second Aves., East Village 
Our block is full of thriving restaurants (old and new), a public school building (side and playground), a bustling senior center (with a great view of the school's playground), and residences.
At the center of the block's south side, dividing the school's playground and a residential building, is an underused, fenced off, triangular portion of the school's playground. Anonymous and illegal garbage is regularly dumped on the sidewalk exactly at this spot, validating the ongoing relevance of the Broken Window theory. Not surprisingly, this same location was a hotbed of drug dealing in an earlier history of our block.
With hundreds of seniors visiting the center across the street daily, several local professional gardeners, and 2 public schools housed in that building, this triangle is a perfect opportunity for NYC DoE, local businesses, and residents to share in the stewardship and transformation of open space by creating and maintaining a garden for a public school that may not have PTA funding and support to do so.
Will our local businesses and landlords help fund this if the city supports and encourages such collaborative efforts?
 - DEBBY LEE COHEN
Westervelt Ave. between Carroll Place and St. Marks Place, St. George, Staten Island
Last year in this space, I wrote about a landmark 1872 French Second Empire crack-house across the street from mine that had gone up in flames, only weeks before, as payback for a drug deal gone bad. The tenants, mostly addicts, scattered, and were never seen again. The founders of a local theater company who lived in the restored Civil War-era house next door took temporary shelter in a short-term rental elsewhere.
This year, it's a whole different story. Because the fire-ravaged house is in the St. George Historic District, it couldn't be torn down, it couldn't be subjected to a cheapo rehab; the owner had to restore it, with guidance from the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission. The restoration --- a gut rehab inside, a period restoration outside --- is now complete. They're just finishing up the landscaping this week. Passers-by who've not seen the house in a while do double-takes all the time.
Things on Westervelt Avenue are looking up. - BENCHARIF

        
What Is the State of Your Block?
        
The State of the City, Block by Block
        
Tell Us the State of Your Block
        
Submitted Syllabification: Readers Respond to Traffic Signs
        
After Winning N.Y. Times Contest, Lifeboat No. 6 Makes Headlines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (64%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); HELICOPTERS (63%); CANNABIS (63%); CATS (61%); COCAINE (55%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) reader comments; reader submissions; State of the Block; State of the City; New York City; People & Neighborhoods

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



584 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Big Deal | On Fifth Avenue, 1+1+1 = $25 Million?

BYLINE: VIVIAN S. TOY


HIGHLIGHT: Three separate owners at the grand limestone building at 907 Fifth Avenue offer their contiguous two-bedroom co-ops as a proposed combination. 

 BODY:
When 907 Fifth Avenue was built in 1915, it was one of the first grand limestone apartment houses to open along Central Park, and it filled quickly with names that routinely graced the society pages.
Today it is still considered one of the city's most elegant prewar co-ops. Residents have included Martha Stewart and Huguette Clark, the reclusive heiress who died last spring and who owned a floor and a half in the building.
Over the years, almost all of the original apartments, which came with as many as 28 rooms, were cut into smaller ones. But John Burger, a managing director at Brown Harris Stevens, has just posted an 18-room $25 million listing that would largely recreate an original 6,500-square-foot apartment as envisioned by the architect, J. E. R. Carpenter.
Mr. Burger represents three separate owners who are offering their contiguous two-bedroom apartments as a proposed combination and who will not sell otherwise. "What makes this interesting is not just the bigger square footage, but that we're going back in time to create what the original architect intended," Mr. Burger said.
Mr. Carpenter, who was described as "the father of the modern large apartment" in New York City, was one of the building's first residents. In the 1920s, he lived alongside oil barons, a tinplate king, a president of the New York Stock Exchange, and a Russian prince.
Although it isn't unusual to find two owners selling together to get a higher price, Mr. Burger added that in his 27 years as a broker, "I've never had a three-way." He said that of the three owners, one had decided to move downtown, another had retired and was spending less time in the city, and the third recognized "that this is an opportunity."
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, said that listing the apartments together made sense, because whenever a combination restores an original design, "sellers are going to get more than they would if they sold their units separately." Depending on the renovations required and the selling prices of comparable spaces, such a combination could get a premium of 20 to 50 percent, he said.
Back in 1915, the original apartment would have been listed as a five-bedroom that came with a 20-by-30-foot living room, a gracious dining room, a long windowed gallery, a reception room, two pantries, a servants' hall and five servants' rooms. It would have rented for about $20,000 a year - no small sum, given that the average worker made only $687 a year.
Mr. Burger's proposed floor plan for a contemporary buyer preserves the original living room and restores the grand gallery, which had been divided into an interior hallway for one of the apartments and a shared public hallway. He says the co-op has been amenable to combinations and to selling public hallway space to individual owners.
The proposed floor plan restores the original five bedrooms, but in a nod to 21st-century living, it significantly changes the original servants' wing. Instead of a large kitchen next to five servants' rooms and a servants' hall, there would be an eat-in kitchen off a family room, a home office, a laundry room and two bedrooms.
The apartment has ceilings nearly 11 feet high and 50 feet fronting on Central Park. Original fireplaces, paneled double doors, decorative moldings and elaborate inlaid floors are intact and have been well maintained. "All three apartments are in very good condition," Mr. Burger said. "Which is not to say that a buyer wouldn't want to come in with their own design team."
To start, a buyer would have to remove two kitchens and renovate the third and largest one kitchen. Mr. Miller says such renovations typically cost about $500 per square foot, which would translate into a renovation bill of more than $3.2 million.
In the current market, which has seen luxury apartments getting record prices, Mr. Burger said, "As I see it, there is no top for the top of the market." The so-called 1 percent, he added "does not have a budget," and is also "very specific as to where they want to be."
He and his sellers are banking on the fact that for many of these buyers, that means prime square footage on Central Park.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $22,375,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $10,800,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $24,000,000 (But What About That $88,000,000 Deal?)
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $6,100,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.79 million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%) Big Deal; real estate; Carpenter, J E R; Architecture; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Restoration and Renovation; Upper East Side (NYC); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%) Carpenter, J E R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Upper East Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



585 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Why I Decided to Join Vistage

BYLINE: MP MUELLER


HIGHLIGHT: I came to the conclusion that maybe I didn't know what I didn't know. 

 BODY:
As kids, when we used to wrestle and play around, we had an expression for when someone had you pinned, and you were in enough pain that you wanted to concede -- you would yell, "calf rope!" The rodeo term is not one I have used in running my business. At least not until recently.
When I started my advertising business 17 years ago in Austin, Tex., I knew I needed to learn some things about running the business. A steady diet of self-help, business and motivational books taught me just enough, and my instincts took over from there. And then luck kicked in. We eventually grew to more than $8 million a year in annual revenue. But the lingering effects of the recession left me scrambling a bit late last year when many of our clients cut their ad budgets for the second year in a row.
There was a time when I could check the bank account balance monthly, and things would always work out. Those days are over. More recently, whenever my staff looks to me for answers, I dance as fast as I can and try to make it look effortless, but the answers that come out often sound hollow. Gradually, I have accepted that I need some new financial tools. I have to start making better projections and paying attention to the right ratios. I need to get some advice on when to pull the trigger when hiring additional employees. 
These thoughts had been building for some time, but something really clicked when, in an exit interview, a departing employee asked, "Why hasn't this company grown more?" This person clearly had been expecting a bigger career arc here. And, it bothered me that we hadn't managed to produce one. We have never expanded meteorically like other agencies. Of course, we have never had layoffs either, something that is very important to me. But why haven't we grown more? I came to the conclusion that maybe I didn't know what I didn't know.
Yes, I was in need of some real time, real world advice. And while friends and family are wonderful and well-meaning, I have learned it's best to stick to questions like, "How do you grill a turkey?" So, last fall, I began to think again about joining a business group, the kind where you meet regularly with other owners and talk about what's working and what isn't.
I had been approached a few years ago to join Vistage by a client who belonged. I attended one session and decided it wasn't a good fit or investment. At the time, the meetings seemed a bit too structured for me, and I didn't really connect with the group chair. Three years, and a recession later, a guy who serves on a nonprofit board with me and whose business acumen I respect, encouraged me to meet with his Vistage group chair.
I was first vetted over drinks by a couple of the group's members, a tradition they use to conduct chemistry checks. The checks, I learned, are important in a group that reveals all to one another with a pledge of complete silence to the outside world (a pledge I will not violate in these posts). As we were leaving, these two personable, accomplished businessmen gave each other a hug and said, "I love you man." Somehow, as I contemplated becoming the only woman in a group of men, that openness reassured me. Of course, I was also impressed by a 2010 Dun & Bradstreet analysis (pdf) that showed Vistage member companies in the United States had grown between 2005 and 2009 at an average annual rate of 5.8 percent while other D&B companies had declined at an average annual rate of 9.2 percent. Sign me up.
The concept of Vistage is to gather chief executives from complementary businesses into small groups. There is a group chair, usually a former chief executive who enjoys mentoring others, who organizes the monthly all-day meetings, and who also meets monthly with each member one-on-one for an hour and a half or so to offer individual coaching. When I first met our group chair, Bill LaRosa, a native New Yorker and a former global semiconductor executive who dresses Savile Row but with handmade, exotic leather cowboy boots, I was a little hesitant. Could my small business benefit from someone who had spent much of his time in huge corporations?
It turns out it could. Bill sees his business group as extended family, sincerely wants you to succeed and is truly on the leader board for smarts. For all of his corporate experience, his demeanor is closer to that of a counselor or therapist. He never tells you what to do; he leads you to a logical course of action through a series of smart questions. Recognizing that success is holistic, our one-on-one and group meetings always start with a numerical assessment -- one for poor, five for great -- of how each member is doing in three areas: health, personal and business. In our one-on-one sessions, we sometimes spend more time talking about family matters than business. And there's a release in that, too. Getting feedback on personal matters can free your mind to focus better on issues that affect your business more directly.
The fact that I am the only woman in this group has had its advantages. Much of my thinking and communications style is high-touch relationship centered. While this can be a strength, I also recognize it has shortcomings. I want to assimilate a more direct approach. At one point, the group asked how I felt about cursing. I responded with a sentence that included some four-letter evidence that I'm O.K. with it. It was a bonding moment.
Part of the appeal is the supportive honesty. While I encourage people at the agency to be honest with one another and with me, I know there's always a tendency to hold back a bit around bosses. It's been refreshing to have someone say, as Bill did, "I'm not going to accept that, MP. What is it I'm not understanding?" I think it was in response to my saying that I didn't know what to do about a certain business challenge. Deep down, of course, I really did know. But I needed someone to tell me that.
More on what I'm getting from my Vistage experience in my next post.

        
It's Not Quite as Lonely at the Top
        
The Worst That Can Happen Is Someone Says No
        
How Do You Pick the Right Business Group?
        
Why I Keep Joining Business Groups
        
Should You Join a Business Group?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); LAYOFFS (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%) accounting; business groups; Vistage; women; Small Business; Austin (Tex); Branded

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Austin (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



586 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $22,375,000

BYLINE: VIVIAN S. TOY


HIGHLIGHT: A six-story house facing Central Park has five bedrooms and a 60-foot lap pool; it was sold by a former president of the luxury goods company Coach. 

 BODY:
A town house on Central Park West that comes with its own 60-foot lap pool and that sold for $22.375 million was the biggest sale of the week, according to city public records.
Although it is not unusual for town houses on the East Side to sell for $20 million or more, the sale of 247 Central Park West was a record price for a single-family town house on the Upper West Side. It is one of just a handful of single-family homes that face the park. The previous record was $19.39 million in 2010 for 26 West 76th Street, according to Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Terra Holdings.
"We made a record, so hopefully we're catching up to the East Side," said Mara Flash Blum, a broker at Sotheby's International Realty who represented the seller, Keith D. Monda.
Mr. Monda, a former president of the luxury goods company Coach, now spends most of his time at his home in Florida. He bought the six-story West Side town house in 2006 for $15.5 million, also a record at the time. The seller at the time was Abigail E. Disney, a grandniece of Walt Disney, who had gut-renovated the house.
Mr. Monda used the home to display his vast collection of modern art. "There was gallery wall after gallery wall," Ms. Blum said. "So even though there is an elevator, if you chose to use the stairs, it was like walking up the floors of the Guggenheim or the Whitney." Because the interior has a very contemporary aesthetic, she said, "we needed a buyer who wanted modernity inside a house from the 1880s."
The house was first listed in spring 2010 at $32 million. The price was reduced to $29 million in March 2011, and to $25 million last May.
In addition to a pool, the house has a fitness/massage area; a large media room; five bedrooms, including a master suite that takes up an entire floor; two terraces; and a landscaped garden.
The new owner is Igor Iankovsky, a foreign buyer who bought the house through a limited liability company, Top Estate (NY), according to city records. The buyer was represented by Matthew Lesser, a broker for Leslie J. Garfield and Company, who said only that the house was to be used as a private home but might first be leased for a period of time.
Big Ticket includes closed deals from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.79 million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $11,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $14 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.5 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); ART DEALERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%) Big Ticket; real estate; Upper West Side; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Upper West Side (NYC)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (69%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%) Upper West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



587 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Weak Quarter Weighs on JPMorgan's 2011 Profit

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase kicked off bank earnings season on Friday with news that its quarterly profit dropped 23 percent last year, expected results that weighed on the full-year profit. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase kicked off bank earnings season on Friday with news that its quarterly profit dropped 23 percent last year, results that weighed on the full-year profit.
The bank turned a $19 billion profit in 2011, up 9 percent from $17.4 billion a year earlier, as its credit card business and commercial lending operation showed signs of improving. The results amounted to $4.48 a share, up from $3.96 a share last year.
But the profit engine stalled in the fourth quarter, when JPMorgan earned $3.7 billion, or 90 cents a share, down 23 percent from the same quarter a year earlier. The results matched analysts' estimates for the period.
The fourth-quarter slump was owed in part to declining revenue and a slowdown in JPMorgan's sprawling investment bank, which suffered from the sluggish economic recovery in the United States and concerns that the European debt crisis would sweep across the Continent.
The investment bank booked a $567 million accounting loss in the fourth quarter tied to the perceived riskiness of its own debt, reversing a one-time gain from the previous quarter that propped up earnings across Wall Street. In all, the unit's profit sank 52 percent to $726 million in the fourth quarter.
Shares of JPMorgan were down more than 3 percent, to about $35.55, in morning trading.
Despite the turmoil in the fourth quarter, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chairman and chief executive, highlighted the firm's gradual progress since the financial crisis. He also sounded a note of cautious optimism about the broader economic recovery.
"We have a mild recovery that might actually be strengthening," Mr. Dimon said in a conference call with reporters, adding that the comeback appears to be "broad."
The bank's earnings report comes a day after Mr. Dimon announced the second major shuffling of his management team in a year. Among the changes, Jay Mandelbaum, head of strategy and business development, will leave the bank. And Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan's risk management chief who guided the bank through the financial crisis, will now head corporate regulatory affairs.
With the steady growth in profit last year, JPMorgan has emerged from the crisis as one of Wall Street's most dominant firms. In 2011, JPMorgan stripped Bank of America of its title as the nation's biggest bank by assets. Bank of America is still struggling to shed the legacy of the subprime mortgage mess.
"JPMorgan is in the best position for no other reason than they don't have the troubles that Bank of America has," said Jim Sinegal, an analyst with the research firm Morningstar.
While JPMorgan had some recent bright spots in its core businesses, the gains were padded by the bank's decision to set aside $730 million in fewer reserves for loan losses. Additions to the reserve are an expense.
Much of the change came from reserves held for the bank's credit card portfolio, which has steadily improved. The move also benefited Chase Retail Financial Services, the bank's consumer banking arm that offers everything from mortgages to checking accounts. The unit earned $533 million in the fourth quarter, up from $459 million a year earlier.
Commercial lending was a particular strong point for the bank. The unit's profit rose to a record $643 million, a 21 percent increase from the prior year, as lending to corporations grew for the sixth consecutive quarter.
"I believe that you are seeing real loan growth," Mr. Dimon said on the conference call. "And I think that will continue."
But his bank's earnings improvement last year was overshadowed by the fourth-quarter woes and a drop in revenue. Revenue fell to $99.8 billion, down from $104.8 billion last year, as new federal rules reined in fees tied to overdrafts and debit cards. The $567 million accounting loss also weighed down revenue.
The revenue struggles are not unique to JPMorgan, a diversified bank seen as a gauge for the performance of Wall Street. When the nation's other big banks -- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and Bank of America -- report earnings next week, most are expected to detail similar slowdowns in revenue.
"It's hard to think of a bright spot on the revenue side," Mr. Sinegal said. "That issue is going to linger."

        
Wall St. Pay Expected to Fall 20% to 30%
        
Bank Earnings Season Starts on a High Note

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (95%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); EURO CRISIS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Bank of America; Citigroup; Goldman Sachs; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; Morgan Stanley; Company Reports; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%); JAMES SINEGAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



588 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2450 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan's 2011 Profit Rises 9% | JPMorgan Chase kicked off bank earnings season on Friday with news that its profit rose 9 percent last year, a report diminished modestly by the recent turmoil on Wall Street.
The bank turned a $19 billion profit in 2011, up from $17.4 billion a year earlier, as its credit card business and commercial lending operation showed signs of improving. The results, which amounted to $4.48 a share, fell slightly short of analysts' estimates of $4.53 a share.
In particular, the profit engine stalled in the fourth quarter, when JPMorgan earned $3.7 billion, or 90 cents a share, down from $4.8 billion, or $1.12 cents a share, in the same quarter a year earlier. The results matched analysts' estimates for the fourth quarter.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
This Goldman Deal Comes Steamed, With Sauce | Kenny Lao has the kinds of credentials - a master's in business administration from New York University and a former job as a Wall Street analyst - that might come in handy when pitching business to Goldman Sachs.
But the only deals he had to offer Goldman were stuffed, steamed and served in packs of six.
Mr. Lao is the co-founder of Rickshaw Dumpling Bar, a Manhattan restaurant that has been serving up dumplings since 2005. This week, Rickshaw was invited to sell its dumplings inside Goldman's cafeteria, an 11th-floor outpost inside the firm's gleaming skyscraper at 200 West Street in Lower Manhattan.
DealBook 
A Recovery for Goldman's Brand | Perception of the Goldman Sachs brand recovered to levels not seen since before the 2010 lawsuit by the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the YouGov BrandIndex. 
BRANDINDEX
Gingrich Helped Credit Suisse | Newt Gingrich's political consulting companies, which helped clients including the Swiss bank gather "political intelligence," could complicate his campaign, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hong Kong Brokers Defend Lunch Break | After seeing their lunch break reduced last year, traders and brokers in Hong Kong marched to the headquarters of the exchange where they work, to protest a proposal that would reduce their lunch break further, to one hour from 90 minutes, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Raymond James Investors Fear a Wait | The Florida-based brokerage firm's agreement to buy Morgan Keegan is its biggest deal ever and will create a regional powerhouse with 6,100 brokers, but investors may not see rewards until markets recover, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Delta and TPG Said to Weigh Bids for American Airlines | Delta has hired the Blackstone Group as an adviser in a potential bid for American Airlines' parent, but AMR's bankruptcy restructuring is still in its early days.
DealBook 
China Case Reveals Risks of Investing in a Foreign Company | The case involving ChinaCast took a bizarre turn this week, the Deal Professor says. After the company held its annual meeting in Beijing, one board member sued, saying his representative was locked out.
DealBook 
RIM Rises on Goldman Rumors | Shares of Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, rose amid speculation that the company hired Goldman Sachs to explore options, even as analysts played down the possibility of a sale, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
London Metal Exchange to Review Takeover Bids in February | The London Metal Exchange, the world's largest metal futures market, plans to review initial takeover offers at a board meeting on Feb. 23.
DealBook 
First Niagara to Sell HSBC Branches | The First Niagara Financial Group is selling 37 of the branches it bought last year, including $2.4 billion in deposits, to satisfy antitrust regulators, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
ING Outlines Banking Strategy | The Dutch financial services group ING said Friday that it would not pay a dividend to shareholders until it had repaid all of the state aid it received during the financial crisis.
DealBook 
Lloyds Chief Turns Down Bonus | The chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group, Antonio Horta-Osorio, decided Friday to give up his bonus for last year after taking a leave of absence and overseeing a third-quarter loss.
DealBook 
Goldman Said to Bid for Fed's Mortgage Bonds | Goldman Sachs offered to buy roughly a third of a $20 billion portfolio of risky mortgage bonds that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York acquired in the 2008 bailout of the American International Group, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
JPMorgan Shuffles Management Ranks | Jay Mandelbaum, head of strategy and business development, is leaving JPMorgan. Barry Zubrow, who was a crucial player for the bank during the financial crisis, will head corporate regulatory affairs.
DealBook 
Goldman Lost 50 Partners Last Year | The exodus of senior executives for the year was among the largest since Goldman Sachs became a publicly traded company in 1999.
DealBook 
Bank of America Said to Consider Scaling Back | The bank has told regulators that, if its financial problems worsen, it is willing to shed branches in some parts of the country, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Louisiana's Wall St. Problem | State officials made a deal with Merrill Lynch to use debt and interest rate swaps to pay for repairs of the Superdome in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, but the bill for taxpayers has reached $42 million, three times as much as expected, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Central Bank Deposits Reach New High | The Continent's banks parked $627.77 billion at the central bank on Thursday, another all-time high, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
R.B.S. May Be a Trendsetter | The decision by the Royal Bank of Scotland to cut from its European investment bank may presage similar moves by rivals, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Deutsche Bank Downsizing in Austria | The German lender is shrinking its equity business in Austria, and some bankers may be moved to Frankfurt or London, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Australian Banks Seen as Planning Cuts | A union representing workers in the financial industry said Australia's top banks were poised to fire thousands of staff members, with several hundred cuts expected at the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
TPG Said to Consider Olympus Deal | TPG Capital, the private equity firm, is willing to invest about $1 billion in Olympus in a joint deal with Sony or another company, and has informed potential partners of its interest, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with TPG's thinking.
REUTERS
K.K.R. Tops Buyout League | The private equity shop invested $18.8 billion and participated in 44 deals last year, including the purchase of Samson, according to research from Preqin, Bloomberg News reports. Bain Capital, for its part, invested $15.3 billion in 33 deals.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
K.K.R. Continues Lending Push | The firm is going deeper into the credit business, with a major senior lending initiative planned for this year, said Erik Falk, co-head of leveraged credit operations, without providing details, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Morgan Stanley Property Fund Extension Approved | Investors approved a yearlong extension of the $4.7 billion fund, after only about 40 percent of it had been put to work, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
A Leveraged Buyout Explained | The Wall Street Journal provides a primer on how the private equity industry works.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Defense of Private Equity | Jonathan Macey writes in a column in The Wall Street Journal that the recent attacks on the private equity industry are "anticapitalist claptrap."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Citadel Pulls Off 20% Gain for 2011, Defying Industry | Kenneth C. Griffin's hedge fund has been bouncing back from its devastating losses during the financial crisis after a year in which the overall industry lost on average 5 percent.
DealBook 
Sears Chairman Buys Shares, but His Reason Is Unclear | Edward S. Lampert, who controls just under 60 percent of Sears, added another $130 million of the retailer's stock to his personal holdings, buying the shares from his hedge fund.
DealBook 
Hedge Funds Point Fingers | After a year in which mutual funds fared better than hedge funds, prominent hedge fund managers have offered a variety of excuses for their less-than-stellar performance, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Hug a Hedge Fund Manager | Traders are useful in markets, and they've had a rough year, so they deserve some affection, writes Sebastian Mallaby in a column in The Financial Times.
FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Is a Twitter I.P.O. in the Works? | Bloomberg Television has a report about a potential initial offering for Twitter, citing unnamed people who say the board wants the company to prepare for an I.P.O.
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION
Cinco Files for $172.5 Million I.P.O. | Cinco Resources, the Dallas-based oil and natural gas company, aims to raise up to $172.5 million in an initial offering, with Citigroup and Wells Fargo as underwriters, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Splunk Plans $125 Million Offering | Splunk, a San Francisco-based maker of data analytics software, filed for an offering of up to $125 million, with Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse, JPMorgan and Bank of America Merrill Lynch as underwriters, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Oil Equipment Company Files for I.P.O. | MRC Global, which provides pipes and other parts to oil and gas companies, aims to raise up to $100 million, nearly three years after it canceled a $750 million offering, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Foursquare Plans Its Next Step | With 15 million users and a recent valuation of $600 million, Foursquare, which allows people to let others know where they have visited, is looking to put that data to other uses, The New York Times Bits blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Hulu Plans to Spend $500 Million on Content This Year | That sum is more than the company's revenue last year, VentureBeat reports.
VENTUREBEAT
Ballmer Tries to Keep Up | Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, has overseen a substantial shift in the business, reworking the company's product lineup as it sometimes has found itself lagging rivals, Bloomberg Businessweek writes. "It's fun to work both from the front of the pack and from the back of the pack sometimes," Mr. Ballmer said.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Digital Payments Start-Up Raises $25.5 Million | Jumio, which offers merchants a way to use cameras to read credit cards, raised $25.5 million while declining to provide details, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Bloomberg Suffers, Too, in Collapse of MF Global | The financial information giant Bloomberg L.P. lost about 600 subscriptions to its computer terminals - which translates to nearly $1 million in monthly revenue - after MF Global filed for bankruptcy.
DealBook 
MF Global Brokerage Trustee Meets Customers | While the trustee liquidating MF Global's brokerage unit said at a meeting with customers that he continued to make progress in returning their money, many remained unhappy with his work.
DealBook 
Fed Transcripts Show Little Worry Over Housing | Newly released transcripts of meetings of Federal Reserve officials in 2006 suggest that they believed the greatest danger to the economy was inflation, Binyamin Appelbaum of The New York Times reports.
"We think the fundamentals of the expansion going forward still look good," Timothy F. Geithner, then president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told his colleagues in December 2006. 
NEW YORK TIMES
Consumer Agency Takes On Lenders to Students | Richard Cordray, the new director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said the practices of some nontraditional lenders to students were comparable to those of the subprime mortgage lending industry, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Cordray Tries to Drum Up Wall St. Support | Richard Cordray, the new consumer protection chief, has been calling the heads of the major banks, including the chief executives of Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
State Officials Said to Meet Over Mortgage Investigations | More than a dozen state attorneys general met in Washington this week to discuss potential future mortgage-related actions against big banks, The Financial Times reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Japan Airs Volcker Rule Concerns | The Bank of Japan and the country's financial regulator said in a letter to American regulators that the Volcker Rule could have "an adverse impact" on the trading of Japanese government bonds, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Central Bank Promises Continued Support | The European Central Bank promised continued support for banks in the euro area, saying that steps taken last month to pump cash into the system had prevented a potentially disastrous credit freeze across the financial system, Melissa Eddy and Julia Werdigier reported for The New York Times.
The New York Times
Kodak Said to Hold Talks With Citigroup | Eastman Kodak is in discussions with Citigroup about providing bankruptcy financing, as the photography company considers a potential filing, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bankruptcy Filings Fell Last Year | There were about 1.4 million bankruptcy filings in 2011, a nearly 12 percent decline from the year before, and the majority were for individuals, according to statistics from Robert Lawless, a law professor, The New York Times Bucks blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES | CREDIT SLIPS
U.S. Investigates Diamond Foods | The snack maker faces a federal investigation into whether its financial practices involved criminal fraud, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Cravath Partner Leaves for Crowell | Jeffrey Smith, who founded the environmental law practice at Cravath, Swaine & Moore two decades ago, has left to join Crowell & Moring, The Am Law Daily reports, describing the lateral moves - both in and out of Cravath - as "two rare feats."
Am Law Daily
Huntsman and Democrats See Eye to Eye on Banks | Simon Johnson writes in The New York Times Economix blog that given John Huntsman's proposal that the biggest banks should be broken up, members of the left should support him for the Republican nomination.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMR CORP (80%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (91%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (80%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); CHINA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



589 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: DealBook's Week in Review

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 

 BODY:
A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions
 BRISTOL-MYERS TO ACQUIRE INHIBITEX FOR $2.5 BILLION Major drug companies are seeking to bolster their pipelines with more profitable specialty products, Michael J. de la Merced reports.
CORBIS TO ACQUIRE NMA GROUP The digital media company owned by Bill Gates that licenses the intellectual property rights to photographs, music and public personalities is expanding again, Stuart Elliott reports.
SUITORS FOR AMERICAN AIRLINES REPORTEDLY INCLUDE DELTA The airline has hired the Blackstone Group as an adviser in a potential bid for American Airlines' parent, but AMR's bankruptcy restructuring is still in its early days, Michael J. de la Merced and Jad Mouawad report.
Investment Banking
DEAL PROFESSOR Steven M. Davidoff notes that the Lehman Brothers estate is in its fourth year of administration in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, and like other Wall Street failures, it is not going away anytime soon.
UNICREDIT'S WEAK SHARE OFFERING A POOR OMEN IN EUROPE Even a steep discount drew tepid interest in UniCredit's rights offering, raising the question of how Europe's banks can get capital from skeptical markets, Mark Scott and David Jolly report.
DEALBOOK COLUMN Andrew Ross Sorkin examines the paradox of smaller Wall Street paychecks. While the total compensation reported by big banks may be lower, keep an eye on the compensation-to-revenue ratio.
SWISS BANK CHIEF QUITS AFTER UPROAR OVER TRADES The resignation of Philipp M. Hildebrand over personal currency deals came as a surprise since he appeared to have the support of the council that oversees the Swiss National Bank, Jack Ewing reports.
FOR EUROPE, FEW OPTIONS IN A VICIOUS CYCLE OF DEBT European Union countries will need to sell billions of dollars' worth of bonds every week in 2012 to replace existing debt, and policy makers and investors are watching debt auctions for signs of weakness, Peter Eavis reports.
2 SECURITIES HEADS ARE LATEST TO LEAVE GOLDMAN The retirements of Edward K. Eisler and David B. Heller are the latest high-level departures from Goldman Sachs, which is going through a post-financial crisis transition, Susanne Craig reports.
THIS INSIDE GOLDMAN DEAL COMES STEAMED, WITH SAUCE Rickshaw Dumpling Bar has been invited to sell its dumplings inside Goldman Sachs's cafeteria, an 11th-floor outpost inside the firm's gleaming skyscraper in Lower Manhattan, Kevin Roose reports.
ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND TO CUT 3,500 JOBS The bank says it will eliminate 3,500 jobs in its investment banking division over the next three years in response to volatility in global financial markets, Mark Scott reports.
WEAK QUARTER WEIGHS ON JPMORGAN'S 2011 PROFIT JPMorgan Chase kicked off bank earnings season with news that its earnings dropped 23 percent in the fourth quarter, results that weighed on the full-year profit, Ben Protess reports.
ING OUTLINES BANKING STRATEGY The Dutch financial services group ING said it would not pay a dividend to shareholders until it had repaid all of the state aid it received during the financial crisis, Mr. Scott reports.
LLOYDS CHIEF TURNS DOWN BONUS The chief executive of the Lloyds Banking Group, Antonio Horta-Osorio, said he would give up his bonus for last year after taking a leave of absence from the struggling financial firm, Julia Werdigier reports.
Private Equity
THE FALL OF IRELAND'S MIGHTY QUINN In many ways, Sean Quinn, once the richest man in Ireland, personified the nation's boom. Now, Doreen Carvajal reports that he has come to personify its bust. 
AS ROMNEY ADVANCES, PRIVATE EQUITY BECOMES PART OF THE DEBATE The private equity industry has come under scrutiny as Mitt Romney's Republican rivals have attacked his record at the investment firm Bain Capital, Peter Lattman and Annie Lowrey report.
Hedge Funds
AWAITING A GREEK PAYOUT A growing number of investors are loading up on Greek government securities that mature in March, betting on a rescue that would provide them with a huge profit, Landon Thomas Jr. reports.
SEARS HEAD BUYS SHARES, BUT WHY? Edward S. Lampert, who controls just under 60 percent of Sears, added another $130 million of the retailer's stock to his personal holdings, buying the shares from his hedge fund, Mr. Eavis reports.
Legal/Regulatory
FAIR GAME COLUMN There is still no nationwide settlement over practices at mortgage servicing companies. But Gretchen Morgenson finds that a couple of state attorneys general have been taking matters into their own hands.
MONEY FUNDS COULD FACE MORE CHANGES Diana B. Henriques reports that regulators and mutual fund executives differ on the stability of money market funds since the financial crisis. The S.E.C. is expected to soon propose more changes in the industry.
FINANCIAL RUIN OF IMMIGRANTS TIED TO BROKER Edul Ahmad has been charged with masterminding a $50 million mortgage fraud, a development that seems to exemplify a national trend of immigrant brokers accused of preying on their own, Adam Ellick reports.
BANK REGULATORS TO ALLOW LEEWAY ON LIQUIDITY RULE The oversight panel of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said the rule did not mean banks would never be allowed to dip below required levels, Susanne Craig reports.
U.S. INQUIRY OF MF GLOBAL GAINS SPEED Federal authorities have unearthed new details in their hunt for roughly $1.2 billion in customer money that disappeared from the brokerage firm, but obstacles still loom, Ben Protess and Azam Ahmed report.
CONVICTION OF FORMER REFCO LAWYER IS OVERTURNED A federal appeals court reversed the conviction of Joseph Collins, a former outside lawyer to Refco, the collapsed brokerage firm. Peter Lattman reports that a retrial could be complicated by the death of a crucial witness, Santo Maggio.
NEW RULES ON SWAPS WILL PROTECT BIG TRADERS Regulators agreed to require brokerage firms to segregate the accounts of swaps customers from company money. But the rule would not have prevented MF Global's loss of customer money, Mr. Protess reports.
HOSTESS, MAKER OF TWINKIES, FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY Hostess Brands, the baking company known for sweet treats like Twinkies and Ding Dongs, filed for bankruptcy, just three years after emerging from an earlier restructuring process, Mr. Protess reports.
EX-FUND MANAGER GETS PRISON TERM IN INSIDER TRADING CASE Drew K. Brownstein, the former hedge fund manager, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison after pleading guilty to charges of insider trading involving Mariner Energy, Mr. Lattman reports.
BLOOMBERG SUFFERS, TOO, IN COLLAPSE OF MF GLOBAL The financial information giant Bloomberg L.P. lost about 600 subscriptions to its computer terminals - which translates to nearly $1 million in monthly revenue - after MF Global filed for bankruptcy, Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Protess report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); AIRLINES (75%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (69%) Top Headline 1; Week in Review

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); AMR CORP (83%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (66%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); SNBN (SWX) (66%); RBS (NYSE) (62%); RBS (LSE) (62%); RBS (AMS) (62%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



590 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Lending Helps JPMorgan, but 4th Quarter Was Soft

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase reported a 23 percent drop in its quarterly earnings, but one significant bright spot for the bank was its growth in corporate loans. 

 BODY:
Wall Street, more than three years after the financial crisis, has loosened its lending tap. Consumers, however, have yet to reap the benefits.
Results announced on Friday by the nation's strongest and biggest bank by assets, JPMorgan Chase, point to a divided economy where big businesses are gaining ground while consumers still cannot find their footing.
JPMorgan reported a weak fourth quarter, with earnings down 23 percent compared with the period a year earlier. The bank was hurt by a fourth-quarter slump in investment banking and other Wall Street businesses, which suffered amid the sluggish economic recovery and worries that the European debt crisis will spread.
One significant bright spot was the bank's growth in corporate loans. The commercial banking unit's profits rose to $643 million, a 21 percent increase from the previous year, as lending to corporations grew for the sixth consecutive quarter.
The strong results helped JPMorgan turn a $19 billion profit for 2011, up 9 percent from a year earlier.
The bank's chairman and chief executive, Jamie Dimon, emphasized the uptick in lending. "I believe that you are seeing real loan growth," Mr. Dimon said on a conference call with journalists. "And I think that will continue."
The credit surge rippled through corporate America and the nonprofit world, too, as the bank lent to entities as varied as major corporations, hospitals, universities and local governments. Last year, JPMorgan lent $58 million to a cancer research center in Washington State. The bank also lent $17 billion to small businesses in the United States, a 52 percent leap.
"All types of corporations" are taking out loans, Mr. Dimon said, "large, small, medium, all types."
But the figures highlight the differences between the corporate and consumer economies.
The bank's student loans dipped more than 7 percent last year. Auto loans dropped nearly 2 percent. JPMorgan's credit card lending fell 2.5 percent, to $132.2 billion at the end of 2011, though such loans rose 5 percent in the second half of the year.
"The consumer is still deleveraging," said Jason Goldberg, a senior analyst with Barclays. "It's not a lack of supply; it's a lack of demand."
While consumers are reluctant to take on extra debt when the economic outlook is uncertain, banks like JPMorgan also remain wary of increasing their exposure to individual borrowers, particularly potential homeowners.
JPMorgan made 765,000 mortgages in 2011, but, like other banks, it sells most of them to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled housing finance companies. Banks must hold layers of capital against mortgages they keep on their balance sheets, so selling to Fannie and Freddie can be an attractive alternative to holding them.
Nearly 90 percent of all mortgages made in the first nine months of 2011 wound up at a government agency, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry trade magazine.
The reluctance of banks to keep control of mortgages underscores how distant a recovery is in the home loan market. JPMorgan's holdings of mortgages to people with stronger credit rose by just 2 percent in 2011, to $76.2 billion, while its home equity loans fell 12 percent.
"We're getting killed in mortgages, in case you hadn't noticed," Mr. Dimon said on Friday.
Banks also face a reckoning for their lax lending standards during the mortgage bubble. A wave of lawsuits, filed by Fannie, Freddie and private mortgage investors alike, has loomed large on the business since the dark days of the financial crisis. JPMorgan last quarter recorded a $528 million expense for restocking its mortgage litigation reserves.
"There's going to be a long tail to this real estate cycle," Mr. Goldberg said. "This could go on for years."
Still, JPMorgan on Friday highlighted some encouraging signs for its consumer divisions. The bank set aside $730 million in fewer reserves for loan losses, as its credit card portfolio showed signs of life. That decision also increased earnings for Chase retail financial services, the bank's consumer banking arm that offers services like mortgages and checking accounts. The unit earned $533 million in the fourth quarter, up from $459 million a year earlier.
JPMorgan, for all its lingering mortgage issues, has emerged from the financial crisis as one of Wall Street's most dominant banks. In 2011, JPMorgan stripped Bank of America of its title as the nation's biggest bank by assets.
Bank of America is struggling more than any other big bank to shed the legacy of the subprime mortgage mess.
"JPMorgan is in the best position for no other reason than they don't have the troubles that Bank of America has," said Jim Sinegal, an analyst with the research firm Morningstar.
But the JPMorgan profit engine stalled in the fourth quarter amid the weak economic conditions and as new federal rules reined in fees tied to overdrafts and debit cards, onetime revenue drivers. Revenue last year fell about 5 percent, to $99.77 billion, from $104.84 billion a year earlier.
Mr. Dimon, perhaps Wall Street's most vocal opponent of the recent regulatory crackdown, called the debit card restrictions "a gross miscarriage of justice."
JPMorgan also disclosed that a $567 million accounting loss weighed down revenue. The investment bank booked the loss in the fourth quarter tied to the perceived riskiness of JPMorgan's own debt, reversing a one-time gain from last quarter that propped up earnings across Wall Street. In all, the investment bank's revenue sank 30 percent in the fourth quarter.
Shares of JPMorgan closed down 2.5 percent, or 93 cents, at $35.92.
The revenue struggles are not unique to JPMorgan, a diversified bank seen as a gauge for the performance of Wall Street. When the nation's other big banks - Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and Bank of America - report earnings next week, most are expected to detail similar slowdowns in revenue.
"It's hard to think of a bright spot on the revenue side," Mr. Sinegal said. "That issue is going to linger."
But Mr. Dimon on Friday offered hints of optimism for his bank - and the broader state of Wall Street and the economy.
"We have a mild recovery that might actually be strengthening," he said. And the comeback appears to be "broad."

        
Bank Earnings Season Starts on a High Note
        
Banks Start to Make More Loans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); ONCOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); EURO CRISIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); CANCER (50%) Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; quarterly earnings; Dimon, James; Banking and Financial Institutions; Company Reports; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



591 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Jan. 13, 1990 | L. Douglas Wilder Becomes First Elected Black Governor in U.S.

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Jan. 13, 1990, L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia became the first elected black governor in the United States as he took the oath of office in Richmond. 

 BODY:
On Jan. 13, 1990, L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia became the first elected black governor in the United States as he took the oath of office in Richmond. 
The New York Times said that Mr. Wilder's swearing-in ceremony "changed the political face of the United States" and noted that Mr. Wilder, whose grandparents had been slaves, took power in Virginia, "the centerpiece of the Confederacy." The Times noted that he also became "the nation's highest ranking black elected official, a political figure to be reckoned with nationally, a symbol not just of a changing state but of a changing South and a changing nation."
Mr. Wilder, a Democrat, had previously served as lieutenant governor after becoming the first black man to win a statewide election in Virginia in 1985. He faced J. Marshall Coleman, a Republican, in the 1989 gubernatorial race, narrowly defeating Mr. Coleman by less than a half-percent, a result that stood after a recount.
Though Mr. Wilder's historic victory was euphoric for many, there remained concerns over the effect of his race among voters. Reporting immediately after the election, The Times noted that Democrats running for other offices in that same election got far more votes than Mr. Wilder, suggesting that many white Democrats had voted against Mr. Wilder. Polls had predicted that Mr. Wilder would win comfortably, and many polling experts believed that those surveyed had lied to pollsters about being willing to vote for a black man.
Exit polls conducted by The Times and CBS revealed that nearly 1 in 10 Coleman supporters said that "Mr. Wilder's race had been a major reason for their vote." Mr. Wilder also gained votes because of his race: 4 in 10 of black voters, who voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Wilder, said that race had been a major or minor factor.
Mr. Wilder served as governor from 1990 to 1994. His tenure was marked by widespread budget cuts and strong anticrime initiatives. He attempted to run for president, entering the Democratic primaries in 1991 but dropping out early in the race. He later served as mayor of Richmond from 2005 to 2009.
While Mr. Wilder was the first black man to be elected governor, he was not the first black man to serve as governor. That honor belongs to P. B. S. Pinchback, the lieutenant governor of Louisiana who served 35 days as governor from December 1872 to January 1873 after Gov. Henry Clay Warmoth stepped aside because of impeachment charges.
Connect to Today:
Mr. Wilder is currently a contributor to the political Web site Politico. In a December 2011 op-ed, he analyzed the tenure of Barack Obama, the nation's first black president: "Obama was elected in a flourish of promise that many in the African-American community believed would help not only to symbolize African-American progress since the Civil War and Civil Rights Acts but that his presidency would result in doors opening in the halls of power as had never been seen before by black America," he wrote. "Has that happened? I am forced to say, 'No.'" 
In a Jan. 1, 2012, New York Times opinion piece, Thomas B. Edsall, a Columbia University professor, argues that a "distortion of economic and racial reality for members of Congress living and working in Washington contributes to their tendency to view the consequences of budget cuts and austerity measures as affecting primarily individuals and families with whom they believe they have little in common."
What are your thoughts on the relationship between race and politics in 2012? In what ways, if any, do you think the political landscape has changed over the last two decades? Do you think the current government is doing enough to address the economic and social disparities among those who have been historically marginalized?
Learn more about what happened in history on January 13
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Do You Support Affirmative Action?
        
Racial Tensions for Mixed Families
        
Of Budgets and Bargaining: Putting the Union Protests Into Context
        
Stories to Tell: Curating an African-American History Exhibition
        
A Travel Guide From the Jim Crow Era

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); MAYORS (73%); HISTORY (67%); IMPEACHMENT (61%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); BUDGETS (50%) African-American; Black History Month; election; governors; race; race and racism; state government; Virginia; Historic Headlines

PERSON: BRAD HENRY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



592 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Should Charities Focus More on America?

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Do you think American charities direct too much attention and funding abroad? 

 BODY:
In Times columnist Nicholas D. Kristof's blog On The Ground, Mr. Kristof and Melinda Gates, of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, answered reader questions about charitable giving. One reader, Cosima Barlett, asked why the foundation, and Mr. Kristof, don't focus more efforts and resources domestically. Here's what they said:
A.
MELINDA: When Bill and I started the foundation we decided to tackle the largest sources of inequity, both at home and abroad. Globally, the greatest disparity we saw was in health. Children in poor countries were dying of diseases like measles that were either preventable or that nobody was working to address. We felt like our resources could make a huge difference in the lives of poor families.
In the United States, although there are certainly healthcare challenges, we've gotten to a point where we usually aren't talking about health in terms of child mortality. Instead, the greatest inequity we see America is in education. Roughly 25 percent of the foundation's resources are focused here and most of that goes towards improving our schools.
Education is supposed to be the great equalizer, but the system is failing most of our students, especially low-income and minority youth. Only one-third of students graduate high school with the skills they need to succeed in college. But getting some sort of degree after high school is critical for success in today's economy. What we have learned over the years is that the key to improving our education system is ensuring that there is effective teaching in every classroom in America.
A.
NICK: That's an interesting question, Cosima, and it's one I wonder about in relation to my own reporting: Do I spend so much time writing about crises abroad that I neglect problems festering at home?
I'm not sure, but there are two reasons why I understand a focus abroad. First, poverty in the world's poorest countries really is different than poverty in America. On my first win-a-trip journey, I brought a student with me who was skeptical of all my Africa reporting. Casey Parks had grown up in Georgia and Louisiana in a poor family, without insurance, and she didn't see that there was any need to go to Cameroon to write about global poverty. But then in Cameroon, Casey and I watched a woman named Prudence dying in childbirth, completely needlessly. And Casey told me that she realized that yes, there really is a difference - and that in the world's poorest countries a $10 investment in a bed net really can save a life, in a way that is not true in the U.S.
The second point I would make is to push back at the idea that we should solve our own problems first, before we try to solve Congo's or Bangladesh's. At some point we are all humans, connected by a web of humanity, and that's true whether we are New Yorkers and Californians - or whether we are Alabamans and Bangladeshis. It doesn't feel right to me to ignore people's needs and lives because they didn't win the lottery of birth and end up with American citizenship. What matters most is their humanity, not their passport.
That said, I sometimes worry that American university students think that it's cool and glamorous to spend a summer fighting poverty in Africa, but have much less interest in mentoring disadvantaged kids across the tracks in their own cities. That troubles me, too. And as a matter of fact, I hope to do more writing this year about America's own challenges - including education.
Students: Tell us whether you think directing charitable resources to other countries is the right thing to do. Why might it be important for American-based charities to aid foreign countries? Why might it be important for them to focus on problems at home? Where do you think a charity could do the most good? What do you think of the explanations provided by Ms. Gates and Mr. Kristof?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
How Can You Help Others?
        
How Far Would You Go for a Cause?
        
Travel, Not Tourism: Developing 'Win a Trip' Contest Entries
        
'Today We Eat. Tomorrow We Don't.'
        
Jan. 4, 1965 | Lyndon Johnson Outlines 'Great Society' Plans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); WRITERS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); CHILDREN (76%); MEASLES (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%) charity; Nicholas Kristof; Philanthropy (Des);; poverty; Disease and Prevention; Student Opinion

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (84%)

PERSON: MELINDA GATES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CAMEROON (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



593 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Class Warfare

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A new Gallup poll finds a correlation between household income and concern over the deficit. 

 BODY:
If Mitt Romney had his way, we'd only talk about income inequality in "quiet rooms"-I'm picturing wood-paneling and cigar smoke. If Rick Santorum had his way, we wouldn't even use the term "middle class" since, apparently, "there are no classes in America." Middle-income people, maybe, he says, but no middle-class people.
The underlying idea here is that the word "class" is, in itself, a weapon of class-warfare, and that any discussion of it is divisive. That's absurd, for innumerable reasons, but here's a simple one: Whether we talk about class and income inequality or not, the divisions are there. I know that rather obvious observation might get me called a Marxist, again, but that doesn't make it any less obvious.
Anew Gallup poll found a striking-if, again, obvious-correlation between household income and types of "economic worries." Those earning $75,000 and up list the national debt/deficit as their top economic concern, followed by jobs/unemployment. The order of these concerns is reversed for those earning $30,000 to $74,999. For those earning less than $30,000, the deficit comes in third after jobs and continued economic decline.
The Republicans should take note of this correlation-in quiet rooms if absolutely necessary. Not only does it suggest that your position on the income ladder affects your political outlook (i.e., class exists), but also that reining-in federal spending probably doesn't sound like a serious recovery plan to anyone on the lower rungs.
Actually I suspect they have taken note. That would explain why Rick Perry and Newt Gingrich have been attacking Mr. Romney's time at Bain instead of limiting their stump speeches to how the magical private sector will save us all if we just leave it alone.

        
The Iowa-Is-So-Important Phase Ends, the Iowa-Is-So-Over Phase Begins
        
Newt Gingrich Confronts His Super PAC
        
Money in Politics
        
Opinion Report: Romney Lurches Right on Immigration
        
Quiet Rooms? Like the Quiet Car on the Acela?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); IMMIGRATION (50%) deficit; Gallup Poll; Income Inequality; Mitt Romney; Rick Santorum; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



594 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Sticking With It

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: "Super PACs" and a change in the nominating process are keeping candidates in the presidential race longer than they would have survived in the past. 

 BODY:
Today's Times:

        
Though Mitt Romney has racked up victories in Iowa and New Hampshire, his opponents aren't shying away from the fight, propped up by "super PACs" to drain money and delegates from the front-runner in a long primary race, Nicholas Confessore and Jim Rutenberg report.

        
The Obama administration is using secret back channels to tell Iran that closing the Strait of Hormuz would provoke the United States to respond, Elisabeth Bumiller, Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker report.

        
As the housing bubble headed for bust in 2006, transcripts released Thursday show Federal Reserve officials misread the signs, discrediting the possibility that the weakening housing market would weigh on the economy, Binyamin Appelbaum reports.

        
Republican National Committee leaders gathered Thursday to strategize for the general election, calling on the candidates to attack President Obama instead of one another, but refusing to intervene in what could be a lengthy nominating process, Jonathan Weisman reports.

        
Demonstrating the value of its new health care law, the Obama administration ordered one insurer on Thursday to rescind or justify rate increases it called unreasonable, Robert Pear reports. Under the law, rates that go up 10 percent or more must be reviewed by state or federal officials.
Washington Happenings:

        
Mr. Obama will meet with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and then Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Friday, as well as attend a campaign event. Later, he and his wife, Michelle Obama, will host a screening at the White House of the new film "Red Tails," which is about the Tuskegee Airmen, the all-black pilot group that fought in World War II. Members of the Tuskegee Airmen, along with the film's cast and crew, will attend.

        
The Early Word: Romney Rising
        
The Early Word: Replaced
        
The Early Word: Rivals
        
The Early Word: Optimism
        
The Early Word: Strategy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



595 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: New Romney Ad Defends Candidate's Record at Bain

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's campaign planned to release their latest television ad in South Carolina on Friday, geared to combat the growing attacks - from both Republicans and Democrats - on Mr. Romney's career at Bain Capital as a corporate buyout specialist. 

 BODY:

GREENVILLE, S.C. - Mitt Romney's campaign plans to release its latest television ad in South Carolina on Friday, geared to combat the growing attacks - from both Republicans and Democrats - on Mr. Romney's career at Bain Capital as a corporate buyout specialist.
In the 30-second spot, a female narrator says, "This is a business Mitt Romney helped start," as "Staples," the office supply store giant, flashes on the screen in red letters. "And this one. And this steel mill," the narrator continues, as "Sports Authority" and "Steel Dynamics" appear, again in red letters.
Though Mr. Romney's advisers said they always expected that President Obama and the Democrats would criticize his private sector record of buying and selling companies in the general election if Mr. Romney were to win the nomination, they were taken by surprise to find the attacks coming so early in the primary - and from members of his own party - and have been huddling in recent days, trying to find an effective way to respond to the assault. This television ad, titled "Bright Future," represents one of their most potent lines of defense. 
"Mitt Romney helped create and ran a company that invested in struggling businesses, grew new ones and rebuilt old ones, creating thousands of jobs," the narrator continues. "Those are the facts."
The ad, in a reference to the various attacks that Mr. Romney's Republican rivals have launched against him in recent days, concludes: "We expected the Obama administration to put free markets on trial, but as The Wall Street Journal said, 'Mr. Romney's G.O.P. opponents are embarrassing themselves by taking the Obama line.' "
Starting in New Hampshire and continuing into South Carolina, Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, have sought to arrest Mr. Romney's march to the Republican nomination, maligning his time in the private sector at Bain Capital. Mr. Perry likened buyout firms like Bain to predatory animals, calling them "vultures," and singled out two companies in South Carolina that, under Bain's supervision, together laid off hundreds of workers in the state.
Supporters of Mr. Gingrich have also begun a vitriolic assault on Mr. Romney, spending $3.4 million on television and radio ads that will include excerpts from a scathing 30-minute movie about Bain Capital, arguing that it hurt the lives of average workers. 
Since the beginning of 2012, the Romney campaign has spent nearly $770,000 on television ads in South Carolina, as well as nearly $1 million more in Florida. To date, Mr. Romney has spent $1.4 million in South Carolina, and a pro-Romney "super PAC" called Restore Our Future has spent $3.4 million in the state, in an attempt to match the expenditures of a pro-Gingrich organization.
At an event in Greer, S.C., Thursday, when asked about his record at Bain Capital, Mr. Romney pointed to several of the companies named in the ad - Staples, Sports Authority and Steel Dynamics, as well as Bright Horizons Children's Center - to argue that his overall record was one of success. 
"There are a number of businesses that we helped start, which collectively, you can just look on their Web sites, added well over 100,000 jobs," Mr. Romney said at a motorcycle dealership Thursday, although his television ad did not cite a specific number of jobs created.
Some of Mr. Romney's advisers argued that the most effective way to defend against the incoming assault on his Bain Capital record was to tell the stories of the companies that Mr. Romney successfully turned around. Though this ad focused on three companies generally, seeking to portray Mr. Romney as a conservative businessman, his aides have also discussed highlighting the experiences of everyday workers who benefited from Bain Capital's intervention.
The spot, which features footage of Mr. Romney touring factories, is the first television ad the Romney campaign has released that specifically addresses this aspect of his private sector career.

        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Romney Seeks to Clarify 'Pink Slip' Remarks
        
Romney's First Television Ad Attacks Obama on Economy
        
Both Sides Promote Romney's Heckling Response
        
For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); POLITICS (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (71%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); JOB CREATION (65%) Bain Capital; mitt romney; Political Advertising; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; South Carolina; Ad Watch; Elections; In South Carolina

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK PERRY (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (97%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



596 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Romney Face a Tough Fight for Key Group

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: In an election climate largely defined by the anxieties of the middle class, working people are now more likely than not to face a choice in November between two candidates who sometimes seem to have trouble relating to them. 

 BODY:
Both are Harvard-educated millionaires. Both have been criticized as elitist and technocratic. Both have struggled to handle the populist anger coursing through politics.
In an election climate largely defined by the anxieties of the middle class, working people are now more likely than not to face a choice in November between two candidates who sometimes seem to have trouble relating to them. One is President Obama, who once characterized them as "bitter" people who "cling to guns or religion." The other is Mitt Romney, currently defending himself against allegations from within his own party that he is a "vulture" capitalist and who in the last week has suggested that he takes pleasure in firing those who fail to provide good service and that politics might best be practiced by those who have paid off their mortgages.
This may be a grassroots year, but neither one of these candidates is mowing his own lawn. And neither one, analysts say, is likely to have an easy time winning the allegiance of a group that is critical to their electoral prospects: white working-class voters.
There is more to the candidacies and backgrounds of the two men, of course, than the shorthand descriptions of their wealth and personalities. Mr. Obama grew up as the son of a single mother and worked as a community organizer in inner city Chicago. Mr. Romney's emphasis on getting tough with China is winning him attention from workers, and former workers, in industries turned upside down by global competition. 
But they face substantial challenges based on the perception that they are out of touch with the values and needs of the kinds of voters who have been most affected by economic and cultural upheaval. 
For most of the past decade, blue-collar, white voters have been overwhelmingly in the Republican column. Mr. Obama did much better among them in 2008 than the previous two Democratic presidential candidates had done. But in the 2010 midterm elections, they flocked back to the Republicans. 
This time around, they will be swing voters of a sort. This is not because Mr. Obama has a great chance at this point of winning them over again - polling suggests no big shift so far from 2010 -- but because it will be essential to him to hold down the Republican margin of victory within the group. Equally, it would be vital to Mr. Romney, assuming he becomes the nominee, to run up the score.
A study released in November by Ruy Teixeira and John Halpin of the Center for American Progress, the liberal research group, took a comprehensive look at the demographics and geography of the 2012 race. It concluded that Mr. Obama has to repeat his strong 2008 performance among white college graduates if he is to survive a drop in his share of white working-class voters this year to the level the Democratic Party won in 2010. 
"Conversely, if Republicans can cut significantly into Obama's white college-graduate support and then replicate the landslide margins they achieved among white working-class voters in 2010," the study said, "then they are likely to emerge victorious."
If white working-class voters are defined as those of all ages with incomes between $30,000 and $75,000 and no college education, Senator John McCain won them in 2008 by a 52-46 margin, according to national exit polls. It was one of the few groups with which he did well against Mr. Obama, but the result was nonetheless a steep falloff for Republicans from 2004, when President George W. Bush took the same group by a 67-32 margin against Senator John Kerry.
But in the Tea Party-fueled backlash election of 2010, white working-class voters went Republican by roughly a 30-point margin, according to exit polls.
Even before Mr. Romney emerged as the favorite to win the Republican nomination, there was a debate underway over whether Mr. Obama should focus his electoral strategy on friendlier and faster-growing demographic groups, like Hispanics and professionals with high levels of education, and chart an electoral course through states like Colorado and Virginia with large proportions of those types of voters rather than through Rust Belt states heavy with less educated, working-class voters.
But the political landscape seems unusually fluid as the main argument of the past two years - over the national debt and the size and role of government - gives way to some degree to a related one about inequality and the nature of capitalism. For example, recent months have produced some evidence that non-college-educated white voters support the goals of the Occupy Wall Street movement, an indication that populist anger over the economy is more free-floating than ideologically fixed. 
Now the effort by some of his fellow Republicans to portray Mr. Romney as a job killer during his time at Bain has opened new opportunities for the Obama team to make inroads among working-class voters, some strategists say. Mr. Romney may not have helped his case, they said, with comments like his recent statement that he knows the fear of being laid off, despite being hired as a management consultant right after receiving law and business degrees from Harvard and going on quickly to make millions managing private equity deals.
It is too soon to know if Mr. Romney's vulnerabilities translate into opportunities for Mr. Obama, said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, which does extensive public opinion surveys and identifies one of the key groups of working-class people as "disaffecteds" - Republican-leaning independents who are economically pessimistic and socially conservative.
"But it at least gives them something to talk about and a place to start," Mr. Kohut said, referring to the Obama campaign's opportunity to raise Mr. Romney's record with working-class voters.
The fight for the white working class will revolve around constraints imposed on both sides, said David "Mudcat" Saunders, a veteran operative who counsels Democrats on appealing to rural and working-class voters. 
Mr. Obama will suffer from a steep loss of enthusiasm for him among these voters since the 2008 election and the economic downturn, he said. Mr. Romney, a Mormon from a liberal state with a history of shifting positions, will have trouble invoking the cultural issues that Republicans have always relied on to rally voters.
"The old wedges of God, guns and gays aren't going to work this time around, and that plays obviously to the benefit of Barack Obama," he said. 
"There's only one way that Obama can regain momentum among white working-class people, and only one way Mitt Romney can do it, and that's using economic populism," he said. "You're seeing signs of both of them doing so."
He said Mr. Romney's call for tougher sanctions on China is particularly resonant among working-class people who have seen jobs devoured by foreign competitors. "China is the wedge issue that Republicans can use," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Income; Presidential Election of 2012; Voting and Voters; On Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012



597 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Romney Moves to Blunt Santorum Surge in South Carolina

BYLINE: MCHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's camp may be worried about the potential for a Santorum surge again. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Can Rick Santorum surge again, this time in South Carolina? 
Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, finished a disappointing fourth in New Hampshire's primary after watching the momentum from his surprising performance in Iowa - where he finished just 8 votes behind Mitt Romney - fizzle away quickly.
But backers of Mr. Romney's presidential campaign are worried enough about another come-from-behind surge by Mr. Santorum that they have showing a television commercial attacking him as a consumer of Congressional pork who raised the debt limit and wanted to allow felons to vote.
"How will Santorum beat Obama?" asks the ad, paid for by the "super PAC" known as Restore Our Future. "Obama knows he can't."
The ad is running in South Carolina and Florida, part of the $5.7 million the group has said it will spend in the two states. The group has also started a Web site, which accuses Mr. Santorum of having voted for earmarks that included a "Bridge to Nowhere, a teapot museum and an indoor rain forest."
At a stop in South Carolina on Friday, Mr. Santorum quipped that "Governor Romney's super PAC is already up with ads in Florida against me, so they must have some idea of who might be coming strongly out of South Carolina."
Why all the concern about Mr. Santorum? 
The assault on his record comes as Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry are facing a torrent of criticism from within their own party over their attacks on Mr. Romney's experience as the head of Bain Capital, an investment firm.
 If Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Perry see their support implode because of a backlash against their anti-Bain message, Mr. Santorum could be the candidate best positioned to pick up their support.
"I think he is the direct beneficiary of the misguided attacks on free markets by Gingrich and Perry," said Jim Dyke, a veteran Republican operative in South Carolina. "Yet to be seen is whether he can banish his own demons like his vote against right to work, which is a major issue in South Carolina."
That vote notwithstanding, Mr. Santorum's profile is one that tends to appeal to the conservative, religious electorate in South Carolina better than any of his other rivals.
A longtime social conservative, Mr. Santorum has taken hard-line views on gay marriage and abortion. A clash with young college students in New Hampshire over his opposition to same-sex marriage may have hurt him in that state, but will likely help him in South Carolina.
As he travels the state holding "Faith, Family & Freedom" town halls, Mr. Santorum is trying to appeal to the distrust that religious conservatives have of Mr. Romney on issues like abortion, health care, marriage and gun rights.
"Unfortunately the person who is quote 'leading' for the nomination has the worst record of anybody in the field on health care, will provide absolutely no contrast, will create a muddled message on the issue that is the essential element of how we define freedom going forward in America," Mr. Santorum told a crowd in Bluffton.
Mr. Santorum also claims a blue-collar, working-class upbringing -- he talks often about being the grandson of a coal miner -- that might be able to better connect with voters in South Carolina than Mr. Romney.
In fact, the economy in South Carolina is far worse than it is in either New Hampshire or Iowa. That could give Mr. Santorum a leg up on Mr. Romney if working-class people find it easier to connect with him.
Mr. Santorum's biggest challenge may be money. 
His campaign did not spend a lot in New Hampshire, and advisers say he has enough to do what is necessary in South Carolina and in the coming primary in Florida at the end of the month.
"We won Iowa and spent 30 K total, we came in fourth in NH (ahead of two moderates and Ron Paul - and didn't spend a dime) and we're in SC with more than a million at least ready to spend," Hogan Gidley, the campaign's spokesman, said in an e-mail.
But that still puts him far behind the resources of Mr. Romney, who has raised $56 million since he announced his candidacy and entered 2012 with $19 million in cash.
And as is clear from the ads now running against him, Mr. Santorum is also facing the financial might of several super PACs, including ones backing Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich. 
Mr. Santorum has the backing of a super PAC of his own: the Red, White and Blue Fund, which has said it is spending as much as $800,000 in South Carolina to boost Mr. Santorum's chances.
"He's the principled conservative," one of the group's ads says. "Rick Santorum. Champion. Leader. Reformer. Rick Santorum is determined and will never waver."
Will that support be enough to make him the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney in South Carolina and beyond? That remains unclear. 
But Mr. Santorum also has two more opportunities to showcase himself nationally -- at a debate Monday and again on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARRIAGE (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (86%); POLITICS (85%); COHABITATION (83%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); FELONIES (70%); RELIGION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (60%); ABORTION (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Earmarks (Finance); Economic Conditions and Trends; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Bain Capital; New Hampshire; South Carolina; In South Carolina; The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (92%); RICK PERRY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Hampshire; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



598 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Romney Rolls Out the Big Guns in S.C.

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney made an appeal to veterans here in what could be considered the political equivalent of the doctrine of overwhelming force. 

 BODY:
HILTON HEAD, S.C. - Mitt Romney made an appeal to veterans here in what could be considered the political equivalent of the doctrine of overwhelming force. 
Mr. Romney and his endorsement brigade -- Senator John McCain of Arizona, Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, and John R. Bolton, the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Mr. Romney -- offered up rousing patriotism (Mr. Romney), a recycled comedy routine (Mr. McCain), a warm South Carolina welcome (Ms. Haley), and some hawkish, fighting words (Mr. Bolton) in an effort to win over the crowd. But it was his answer to a question on his religious views that might have provided the evening's most memorable exchange.
Mr. Romney, a Mormon, fielded a question from an older woman who stood and said, "Governor Romney, I'm for you. But I need to ask you a personal question. Do you believe in the divine saving grace of Jesus Christ?"
"Yes, I do," Mr. Romney said quickly, and to some laughter, before launching into a more lengthy explanation about his views on religion.
"Our nation was founded on the principle of, in some respects, of religious tolerance and liberty in this land, and so we welcome people of other faiths. And I happen to believe that Jesus Christ is the son of God and my savior," Mr. Romney said, "but I know other people have differing views and I respect those views and don't believe those qualify or disqualify people for leadership in our nation."
He concluded: "I think over time, the great majority of us have decided that this is something that doesn't determine who should be our president or our vice president or a governor or our senator, but instead we look at the character" of a man or woman. 
Earlier, Mr. Romney began by sharing a story from when he was the governor of Massachusetts, and went to visit his National Guard troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. As he traveled from base to base, he said told the soldiers that if they wanted him to call their spouse or loved ones when he returned home, to simply write down their names and phone number on a slip of paper. By the time he left, he had 63 sheets of paper in his pocket, and so he got up early on Memorial Day, thinking he could make a few calls before the day got started, and finish the rest of the calls over the next several days.
"Now, about the second or third call in, the person who answered the phone said, 'Oh Governor Romney, I thought that might you calling,'" he recounted. "And I said, 'What do you mean, you thought it might be me calling?' They said, 'Well you made a couple of calls earlier this morning, and the spouses emailed their loved ones in Iraq and Afghanistan to say that you were calling, and they emailed their buddies throughout the theater, and then they emailed all the spouses to say to expect your call today.'"
"So I made 63 calls on Memorial Day," he concluded, to laughter.
Up after Mr. Romney was Mr. McCain, who, after praising the former Massachusetts governor's speech as "powerful," changed the tone by reprising some of his greatest comedy hits from the past decade.
Bemoaning having to follow on Mr. Romney's patriotic speech, Mr. McCain joked, "It reminds me of an old line I used to use all the time: I feel a bit like Zsa Zsa Gabor's fifth husband who on their wedding night said 'I know what to do I just don't know how to make it interesting.'"
Other highlights from the routine of Mr. McCain, the one-man comedy show? "Myself, as you know, I was able to intercept a surface to air missile with my own airplane, which was no mean feat," he said. And: "When I graduated from the Naval Academy I tried to get into the Marine Corps - but my parents were married."
And have you heard the one about how after he lost the 2008 election, he slept like a baby? (The press corps, some of whom had covered him four years ago, certainly had.) "Sleep two hours, wake up and cry. Sleep two hours, wake up and cry," he said, delivering the punch line.
Mr. McCain also defended Mr. Romney's record as a corporate buyout specialist at Bain Capital, which has come under attack from both Democrats and his Republican rivals in recent days. (Mr. Romney even released an ad in South Carolina Friday, talking about the success stories of companies that had thrived under Bain Capital's supervision.)
"Yes, there were some jobs lost, but overall it's what the free enterprise system is all about, and jobs and business were created all over this country by Mitt Romney," Mr. McCain said. "And he knows how it is to get our economy back on track - less taxes, less regulation less government intervention, lower taxes. Give the American entrepreneur a chance."
If Mr. McCain veered into Borscht Belt territory, Mr. Bolton returned the crowd to the wonky weeds, offering a vigorous attack on President Obama's foreign policy. (Though first, he made sure to thank Mr. McCain for standing by him during his "confirmation difficulties a few years ago.")
"This president has done almost everything possible to weaken the United States, to jeopardize our interests and our friends around the world," Mr. Bolton said. "You know the irony is he's campaigning on the basis that he's a success as a foreign policy president."
Pointing the fact that Osama bin Laden was finally killed on Mr. Obama's watch, Mr. Bolton said, "It's because Navy SEAL Team Six killed Osama Bin Laden."
"As somebody pointed out, in 1969 when Americans landed on the moon, it's like Richard Nixon taking for credit for that, because it happened to occur during his presidency," he said.
He also sought to portray Mr. Obama as negligent on the national security front.
"He's not only the most radical president in history domestically, he is the first president, Republican or Democrat, at least since Franklin Roosevelt, who didn't get up every morning thinking first about what threats the United States faces," Mr. Bolton said. "He just doesn't care about national security the way other presidents did. He's much more interested in moving us toward a social Democratic health care system, a social Democratic automobile manufacturing system, a social Democratic environment, you get the picture."
The Romney campaign did not respond to questions about whether Mr. Romney, too, shares Mr. Bolton's view that the current president "just doesn't care about national security."
Americans want a president, Mr. Bolton concluded, "who has judgment, who has steadiness of purpose, who has leadership, who won't falter in a crisis, and who doesn't believe that the role of America in the world is to be a well-bred doormat."
The evening event in Hilton Head was well-attended, with some of the hundreds who showed up forced to watch from a back balcony, peering into the room from behind plastic tape. There was so much traffic to get into the event that both Mr. Romney's bus, as well as the press bus, had to be escorted in by a police cruiser. 
Midway through the question-and-answer session of the nearly hour-long event, Mr. Romney fielded an unusual question from a young girl who was working on a science project, and had apparently asked Rick Santorum the same question during his visit to Hilton Head.
"I was just wondering how many hands do you shake every day and how often do you wash them?" she said.
"You'll be happy to hear that I do wash my hands regularly, so that as I shake your hand today you won't have to worry if the germs I got earlier today in Florida are going to be coming to south Carolina," Mr. Romney said, before offering a brief plug for Purell, the hand-sanitizer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%) Bolton, John R; McCain, John; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Hilton Head (SC); South Carolina; In South Carolina

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); NIKKI HALEY (72%) Bolton, John R; McCain, John; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Hilton Head (SC); South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



599 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Investing in Head Start

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Raising Standards for Head Start'' (editorial, Jan. 4): 
Just as there is a broad consensus that rebuilding our transportation and communication infrastructure is essential to the economic future of our country, it should be equally obvious that similar investment in what is routinely called by politicians our greatest resource, our children, is wise and just.
A study by the RAND Corporation of the longer term effects of Head Start showed that participation in Head Start is associated with an increased probability of completing high school and attending college, elevated earnings in one's early 20s and a decreased likelihood of criminal behavior.
There is ample evidence that Head Start and other quality early childhood programs are ''blue chip'' investments.
STEVEN ANTONELLI New York, Jan. 6, 2012
The writer is administrative director of the Bank Street College of Education's Head Start programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012



600 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Deciding Who's Rich (or Smart) Enough for High-Risk Investments

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
OVER the holiday, the Securities and Exchange Commissionrevised one of the wealth requirements for people seeking to invest in private offerings that hold the allure of big returns. It was a small change, mandated by the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law.
But it has broader implications. Should the United States government be deciding what people can do with their money? And how do you define who is wealthy enough -- and smart enough -- to invest in these offerings?
We're talking about private placements -- a term the financial industry uses for anything from real estate deals to hedge funds to last year's much-talked-about offering in Facebook shares. What all these investments have in common is that they can be sold with fewer disclosures than public offerings.
They also often carry cachet, and those who get into them can end up with large returns. That may seem unfair to anyone excluded because of a lack of wealth. But these private investments can go to zero just as easily as they can climb into the stratosphere, which is why investors who cannot afford to lose a lot of money are barred. 
Since 1982, specific dollar amounts have been used to define who is an ''accredited investor,'' the S.E.C.'s term for someone deemed sophisticated enough to invest in these nonpublic deals.
The two most commonly used measures are annual income -- over $200,000 for an individual or $300,000 for a couple -- and net worth, which was $1 million. In late December, the S.E.C. redefined how people should calculate their net worth. Per the requirements of Dodd-Frank, the commission removed the equity in a person's primary residence from consideration. (But if the value of that house is less than the mortgage, that liability needs to be included.)
''It's an interesting question as to why this qualifies someone as sophisticated,'' said Robert E. Buckholz Jr., a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell. ''The income and the net worth requirements are a proxy for the ability to fend for yourself.''
But also in compliance with Dodd-Frank, the S.E.C. will spend the next three years determining whether to make further changes in the accredited investor requirements. While it is hard to say what the review will produce, it is worthwhile to look at how wealth and financial expertise have been confused.
WHAT THE RULE DOES In a 2009 article in The Washington University Law Review, Wallis K. Finger, now an associate at Schulte Roth & Zabel, used humor to lay out the problem of using money as a proxy for sophistication.
''Paris Hilton almost certainly can purchase unregulated securities issued by hedge funds or other private investment vehicles,'' Ms. Finger wrote. ''Although her training and sophistication in the field of high-stakes financial transactions may be limited, the Securities and Exchange Commission would leave her to her own devices if she chose to invest in private offerings.''
For comparison, she created a woman named Sheryl who has a master's degree in business from Harvard and a doctorate in financial systems analysis. ''After all of this schooling, Sheryl is long on debt and short on assets,'' Ms. Finger wrote. ''She has several offers to work at the nation's most prestigious investment brokerages. But if Sheryl wants to invest in a private offering, the S.E.C. regulations will not allow it.''
In other words, using money as a stand-in for financial sophistication is a fairly unsophisticated solution.
When news leaked out last year that Goldman Sachs was planning to offer private shares in Facebook to its wealthiest clients, there was outrage from people who were excluded. After much media attention, the firm limited the private offering to overseas clients to be sure it complied with S.E.C. regulations. (Anyone will be able to buy shares in the initial public offering of Facebook.)
In reality, most private offerings are far less glamorous and carry significant risks.
Barbara Black, a professor and director of the corporate law center at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, said she was more concerned about small offerings, like a local real estate partnership, where an entrepreneur tries to raise money by promising outsize returns to investors in the community.
''It may be perfectly fine, but the nature of things is that these are risky,'' Ms. Black said. ''You see litigation involving people who are wealthy, but you don't think of them as super-rich -- doctors, dentists, lawyers, some accountants. Are these really sophisticated investors?''
DOES IT WORK? The accredited investor regulation is by design paternalistic, but its arbitrariness is what bothers people.
Originally, the Securities Act of 1933 aimed to provide more information on securities to prevent investors from being manipulated. Those who were exempted from these requirements were believed to possess enough knowledge to make informed choices.
Using the example of doctors and lawyers investing in a local real estate deal, Yasho Lahiri, a partner at law firm Baker Botts in New York, said investors would be better protected with more disclosures, not by their degree of wealth.
''What these rules do is limit that amount of information,'' he said. ''If all these real estate documents were out there, you could assess the deals and compare them to others.''
He added that really sophisticated investments were not marketed to accredited investors anyway. They go to qualified purchasers who have at least $5 million in assets that can be invested and qualified institutional buyers with over $100 million.
If the goal, though, is to protect people from losing all of their money in an illiquid investment, the current standard fails on that count, too. Andrew Abramowitz, a lawyer in Manhattan who has worked with both buyers and sellers of private placements, said a better standard might be to limit how much of their net worth people can invest.
''There could also be a prohibition on participation in a new private placement if the investor's previous investments in illiquid securities constitute a specified share of investor's liquid assets,'' he said.
At the very least, the dollar amounts have not been changed since they were put in place in 1982, and people who qualify today would not have qualified then. After all, $1 million from 1982 would be worth $2.34 million today. Indexing for inflation had been proposed for Dodd-Frank but was removed in Congressional negotiations.
OTHER OPTIONS There are all sorts of alternatives to the accredited investor standard. The tough part is turning recommendations into regulations, especially since the S.E.C. faces opposition from groups that depend on a big pool of investors for private placements.
Walter J. Woerheide, the vice president of academic affairs at the American College, which focuses on training financial service professionals, suggested a simple test to determine a person's level of financial knowledge, akin to the test for a driver's license.
John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia University School of Law, said the rule should be changed to require a minimum net worth of $5 million and to set a standard for diversification so that no more than 15 to 20 percent of someone's net worth could be in unregulated investments.
He said he was particularly concerned about legislation being considered by the Senate that would eliminate the current requirement that brokers need to have an existing relationship with clients before they can try to sell them private placements.
''Upper-middle-class Americans who qualify as accredited investors will soon begin receiving streams of unsolicited offers from brokers they do not know for unregistered offerings,'' Mr. Coffee said. ''From a consumer protection standpoint, this combination of little sophistication and even less disclosure seems troubling.''
And if that happens, investors may have to become more honest in assessing what they know.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yasho Lahiri, a lawyer who advises institutional investors, said investors would be better protected with more disclosures than by their wealth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); ACCREDITATION (70%); HOME PRICES (66%)

COMPANY: SCHULTE ROTH & ZABEL LLP (84%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (84%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

 
