

201 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: Fear of the Year 2000 Bug Is a Problem, Too

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8

 BODY:
The early fears about the Year 2000 computer problem featured all sorts of machines driven haywire by their inability to read dates in the new year: computer networks that control power, water and phone systems freeze; railroads, airlines and trucks are idled as dispatch and traffic safety systems crash, and the financial universe, from stock markets to payroll systems to automated teller machines, goes on the blink.
That was before tens of billions of dollars were spent on computer repairs and upgrades. Now, a chorus of regulators, Year 2000 project managers and other authorities warn that Americans fearing the worst may end up inflicting more serious damage on themselves, their neighbors and the economy than anything the computers do. 
 Planning experts say those scenarios could include bank runs, hoarding of food and gasoline, fires caused by misuse of newly acquired wood stoves and generators, and a rise in gun violence stemming from the surge in firearm sales to those fearing civil unrest.
"As it becomes clear our national infrastructure will hold, overreaction becomes one of the biggest remaining problems," said John Koskinen, chairman of the President's Commission on Year 2000 Conversion. The challenge is to keep the computer repair work going and prudent preparations for disruptions on track while calming the most nervous citizens.
While surveys show most Americans do not expect their lives to be severely disrupted, a significant minority say they are planning big investments of time or money to protect themselves. And the American Red Cross advises the public, as a precaution, to have enough food and other staples on hand to endure disruptions of several days to a week.
At a meeting here today, the Year 2000 project committee of the National Retail Federation, endorsing the Red Cross recommendation, called for retailers and manufacturers to develop campaigns aimed at getting consumers to stock up gradually rather than trying to do so in the last few days of 1999. But the group declined to provide any examples of the kind of supplies it thought citizens should stock, fearing that being so specific would be too alarming.
"Nobody wins if the public freaks out," said Cathy Hotka, the information technology specialist at the federation, a Washington trade group that includes virtually every major retailing company and trade association except Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer. "If the public reacts badly, you could take a potentially minor situation and make it a nightmare."
Some sectors, like the banking industry, began addressing public fears months ago. The Federal Reserve, which supplies cash to the banking system, took the lead by announcing its intention to print $50 billion in extra currency -- lifting the total in circulation to $200 billion -- to assure consumers that banks will have plenty of paper for those who want to have extra cash on hand before the end of the year.
Individual banks and industry associations have sponsored a wide variety of advertising suggesting that shifting money to the mattress leaves customers wide open to losing it to theft, fires and scam artists, not to mention the temptation to fritter it away on unnecessary luxuries.
Some symbolic gestures have already been announced as well. Jane F. Garvey, head of the Federal Aviation Administration, has promised to be flying on New Year's Eve as a show of faith in the air traffic control system. British Airways announced that nearly all of its senior executives would also be aloft.
Surveys show that almost half the nation's local governments have not started on Year 2000 repairs and contingency planning and that many small businesses lag just as badly. Multinational companies are bracing for disruptions in Russia and a number of Asian countries where Year 2000 work has been a low priority. Where the work has been done, at home or abroad, testing remains crucial because experience shows that computer system repairs inevitably introduce unanticipated glitches.
Thus, President Clinton's only Year 2000 remarks in his State of the Union address homed in on the need to keep working to reduce the risks. Mr. Koskinen says complacency is still at least as big a concern as overreaction.
"For some people, a certain amount of panic would help," Mr. Koskinen said.
 
Pogo's Revenge Remembered
The growing questions about behavior management highlight a paradox that computer programmers were among the first to realize: The Year 2000 computer problem, also known as the Millennium Bug and Y2K, probably should have been called something like the Pogo Syndrome after the old comic strip that observed "We have met the enemy and he is us."
After all, humans seeded the Year 2000 problem into the technology landscape by using just two digits in programming dates, such as 99 for 1999, to save expensive memory in the 1960's and 1970's. Early on, computer workers began warning that some machines and software would malfunction because they would read 00 as 1900 instead of 2000 or as no date at all. But all too human foibles like sloth, greed and unfounded optimism that someone else -- or new intelligent machines -- would take care of the Year 2000 problem allowed it to grow into an expensive, potentially deadly global challenge.
Now, as the race to minimize the machine risks enters its last months, the Year 2000 glitch may test people's trust in one another as much as the reliability of their machines. Do they believe that the repair work has been sound and that most of what is left to be done will be finished? Will workers have the skills and dedication to overcome whatever computer malfunctions do occur? Will citizens be neighborly, rather than selfish? Will political and business leaders step in effectively at the right moments?
A tiny minority is already investing heavily in the belief that the answer to these questions is mostly no. Year 2000 alarmists, religious groups that see the computer problem as a pre-ordained divine punishment and survivalists fleeing for rural fortresses are producing measurable bounces in the sale of dehydrated foods, wood-burning stoves, home power generators and other goods at the fringes of the normal economy.
 
Getting a Leg Up On Survivalists
More telling though is the number of Americans saying they are considering moves that would clearly be unnecessary if the nation's computer networks end up being as reliable as regulators and industry leaders are projecting. Polls show that around 10 percent of citizens expect to withdraw most or all of their money from banks. A Gallup poll in December found that 17 percent expected to buy either a generator or a wood stove.
Some consultants involved in community preparedness groups say those numbers are likely to rise.
"It's reasonable to assume the population will get very nervous," said Douglass Carmichael, a Washington-based consultant who lectures community groups that public information on Year 2000 progress is too unreliable to justify putting off building substantial food stockpiles and other "safety nets."
Dealing with mass nervousness is more art than science. Consultants and Government officials preach that the best way to calm nerves is to make sure that customers and consumers are inundated with the details of the work being done to reduce risks. And many of those organizing on the community level agree.
"Statements have to be out there for people to jump on and research," said Margo King, one of a group of organizers who have helped make Boulder, Colo., a pacesetter in local preparedness planning.
But John Steiner, Ms. King's husband and fellow organizer, adds that even with more information, many people will retain doubts that could prime them for panic.
"On Vietnam, we listened to the people in charge for a long time and everything was going well, and then it wasn't," Mr. Steiner said. "The question is what is appropriate contingency planning if things don't turn out as we hope."
While those like Mr. Steiner and Ms. King crave more details about repairs, most people are apparently not concerned enough to listen. Chase Manhattan Bank officials say consumer fears about the banking system leveled off at about 25 percent in the bank's monthly surveys in the last half of 1998, convincing them it was too soon to publish extensive information about its Year 2000 work -- lest it be interpreted as an ominous sign rather than reassurance.
 
Community Groups Lead the Charge
One way to head off nervousness may be to encourage those most likely to be worried later this year to go ahead and acquire now the supplies that would make them comfortable.
"There's sufficient information for people to say there's a substantial risk of disruption," said Charles Halpern, president of the Nathan E. Cummings Foundation, a New York-based foundation that has been providing funds for community preparedness efforts and lobbying other foundations to get involved in Year 2000 work. Mr. Halpern wants leaders from President Clinton on down to talk more often and more forcefully about Year 2000 risks.
"Overreaction now is so much preferable to overreaction in November that it's a risk worth running," Mr. Halpern said. "People who want to lay in supplies of canned vegetables can do it now without disrupting anything."
The drumbeat for early, locally based preparation to minimize risks and head off panic is coming from community groups, many of which have gone far beyond advocating stockpiling of necessities. Some suggestions have been ignored, as when Year 2000 organizers in Spokane, Wash., called for a "practice" day last month on which families were to do without such basics as electricity and running water to learn more about what they need to cope with worst-case scenarios.
"I think we were the only people who did it," one of the Spokane organizers, Larry Shook, said of himself and his wife, Judy Laddon. Even other members of the organizing group ended up deciding they were "too busy," he said.
But such organizers have been building links to local officials in some communities that could lead to broad preparedness efforts. Mr. Shook has been hired by Global Action Plan of Woodstock, N.Y., a nonprofit consultant to cities and towns on environmental and social issues, to write a manual on how cities can help citizens prepare for two-day, two-week and two-month disruptions.
The manual, which is financed by the Cummings Foundation, is being developed in cooperation with the City of Portland, Ore., which hopes to distribute it to all the city's households this spring. It will also be available on the World Wide Web.
Federal authorities are cautiously encouraging community groups like those in Spokane and Boulder, although they fear some of them may end up creating more alarm than preparation. Many have become distribution channels for planning materials such as those developed by the Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which expects to publish by the end of this month new advice tailored to the Year 2000 problem rather than to natural disasters.
"People ultimately have a lot of common sense, so the real goal is to give them all the information we have," Mr. Koskinen said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Shook and his wife, Judy Laddon, of Spokane, Wash., stock their shelves -- including pet food -- in preparation for Year 2000 problems. Last month they did a dry run to prepare for worst-case scenarios. (Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Chart: "Year 2000 Checklist"
Efforts to prepare the public for possible disruptions from Year 2000 computer problems involve a delicate balance between encouraging prudence and preventing panic. Here are some of the steps that the American Red Cross is recommending:
 
Check with makers of computer-controlled electronic equipment to see if the devices may be affected: alarm systems, thermostats, appliances, garage door openers, electronic locks and other equipment that might be controlled by an embedded computer chip.
 
Stock disaster supplies to last several days to a week: nonperishable foods, stored water, and an ample supply of medications that you regularly use.
 
As you would in preparing for a storm, have some extra cash or traveler's checks on hand in case transactions involving A.T.M. cards or credit cards cannot be processed. Withdraw money from your bank in small amounts well before Dec. 31.
 
In case the power fails, plan to use alternative cooking devices. Have extra blankets, coats, hats and gloves to keep warm. Do not plan to use gas-fueled appliances, like an oven, to keep warm.
 
Be prepared to relocate to a shelter for warmth and protection during a prolonged power outage or if local officials request or require that you leave your home for any other reason.
 
Have plenty of flashlights and extra batteries on hand.
 
As you would in preparation for a winter storm, keep your car's gas tank above half full.
(pg. C10)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN RED CROSS; NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION AMERICAN RED CROSS (82%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (82%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS; NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION AMERICAN RED CROSS (82%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (82%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (91%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RIOTS (75%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



202 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6742 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIAL;
From the Prosecution: 'The Rule of Law Should Apply to Everyone'

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the presentations today by the House managers in the Senate impeachment trial of President Clinton. (Today's excerpts were recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency.)
 
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
Republican of Wisconsin
When this trial began four long weeks ago, we said that what was on trial was the truth and the rule of law. That has not changed despite the lengthy legal arguments you have heard. The truth is still the truth, and a lie is still a lie, and the rule of law should apply to everyone, no matter what excuses are made by the President's defenders. 
 The news media characterizes the managers as 13 angry men. They are right in that we are angry, but they are dead wrong about what we are angry about. We have not spent long hours poring through the evidence, sacrificed time with our families, and subjected ourselves to intense political criticism to further a political vendetta.
We have done so because of our love for this country and respect for the office of the Presidency, regardless of who may hold it. We have done so because of our devotion to the rule of law, and our fear that if the President does not suffer the legal and constitutional consequences of his actions, the impact of allowing the President to stand above the law will be felt for generations to come.
The Almanac of American Politics has called me a stickler for ethics.
To that I plead guilty as charged because laws not enforced are open invitations for more serious and more criminal behavior. This trial was not caused by Kenneth Starr, who only did his duty under a law which President Clinton himself signed.
It was not caused by the House Judiciary Committee's review of the independent counsel's mountain of evidence; nor was it caused by the House of Representatives approving two articles of impeachment; nor by the Senate conducting a trial mandated by the Constitution. Regardless of what some may say, this constitutional crisis was caused by William Jefferson Clinton and by no one else.
President Clinton's actions, and his actions alone, have caused the national agenda for the past year to be almost exclusively concentrated on those actions and what consequences the President, and the President alone, must suffer for them.
This trial is not about the President's affair with Monica Lewinsky. It is about the perjury and obstruction of justice he committed during the course of the civil rights lawsuit filed against him and the subsequent independent counsel investigation authorized by Attorney General Janet Reno.
The President has repeatedly apologized for his affair, but he has never, never apologized for the consequences of the perjury and obstruction of justice he has committed. Perhaps those decisions were based upon a Dick Morris public opinion poll which told the President that the American people would forgive his adultery but not his perjury. Perhaps it was for another reason.
Whatever the White House's motivations were, the fact remains that the President's apologies and the statements of his surrogate contritionists have been carefully crafted for the President to continue to evade and, yes, avoid responsibility for his deceiving the courts to prevent them from administering justice. . . .
To keep a President in office, whose gross misconduct and criminal actions are a well-established fact, will weaken the authority of the Presidency, undermine the rule of law, and cheapen those words, which have made America different from most other nations in the earth; "equal justice under law."
For the sake of our country and for future generations, please find the President guilty of perjury and obstruction of justice when you cast your votes.
 
Christopher B. Cannon
Republican of Utah
I do know that the issue is grave and that your responsibility is great. So I'm here today to ask you to set aside some of your natural inclinations, for the good of the country. I would implore you, Senators, both Republican and Democrat, to set aside partisanship, politics, polls and personalities, and exchange them for loftier inclinations, those of procedure, policy and precedent. These are the only guidelines this body should have.
As the Senate deliberates this case, I would ask that a few key facts never be forgotten: that the President committed perjury when he lied under oath, and he obstructed justice. The Senate has historically impeached judges for perjury, even recently by some of you assembled here.
Any American watching these proceedings who commits perjury will be punished by the law. If the Senate follows our nation's precedents of punishing perjurers and if the Senate follows its own precedents of convicting perjurers, then there is only one clear conclusion in this matter: conviction.
Senators, we as Americans and legislators have never supported a legal system which has one set of laws for the ruler and another for the ruled. After all, our very Pledge of Allegiance binds us together with the language "liberty and justice for all."
If that is the case, if we intend to live up to our oaths and pledges we take, then our very own President must be subject to the precedents our national judicial system and this Senate body have heretofore set. Because I love this country and its institutions, I pray for inspiration for each of you as you seek the proper legitimate outcome. May God bless you in this process.
 
George W. Gekas
Republican of Pennsylvania
With all the fury and the tumult and the shouting and the invective and the language and the just plain shouting that has occurred across the halls of Congress and everyplace else in the country, it all swoops down and is telescoped to one issue: Did the President utter falsehoods under oath? Everyone understands that. Everyone comes to the conclusion that that's a serious allegation that has been made through the impeachment and one which you must judge in the final vote which you will be casting. . . .
I have a witness. I call a witness to bolster my part of this summation. The witness is the American people. Mr. Craig, in his last appearance on this podium, was delighted to be able to quote a poll that showed that 75 percent of the people of our country felt that there was no need to present videotapes to the Senate in the trial.
Seventy-five percent, he said with great gusto, of the American people. And of course the polls of all types were quoted time and time again by the supporters of the President as showing why you should vote to acquit. The polls, the polls, the polls.
I now call the American people's poll on whether or not the President -- do they believe that the President committed falsehoods under oath. Eighty percent of the American people. I call them to my side here at the podium to verify to you that the President committed falsehoods under oath.
 
Steve Chabot
Republican of Ohio
As I started to think about what I would say today, I wasn't sure where to begin. How, exactly, do you wrap up in 10 minutes or less, everything we've witnessed in the last year?
We've seen Bill Clinton's finger-waving denial to the American people. We've seen the President lie before a Federal grand jury. We've seen the President obstruct justice. We've seen the President hold a public celebration immediately following the House impeachment vote.
We all know the President's behavior has been reprehensible.
President Clinton, however, refuses to admit what all of us know is true. To this day, he continues to deny and distort; he continues to dispute the undeniable facts that are before the Senate and before the American people.
The President's attorneys have done their best to disguise the truth as well. At the beginning of this trial I predicted in my presentation that they would use legal smoke screens to mask the law and the facts. . . .
So I would ask everyone here today to make a commitment, a commitment to every American, that regardless of the trial's outcome, we will join together to turn the page on this unfortunate chapter that President Clinton has written into our nation's history.
The question before you now is how will this chapter end? Will a final chapter say that the United States Senate turned its back on perjury and obstruction of justice by the President of the United States? Or will it say that the Senate took a principled stand and told the world that no person, not even the President, stands above the law; that all Americans, no matter how rich, how powerful, or how well connected, are accountable for their actions -- even the President.
 
Bob Barr
Republican of Georgia
You've heard tapes and read volumes of evidence; not pursuant to the precise process we as House managers would have preferred, but much evidence, nonetheless, has been presented. Many are saying, with a degree of certainty that usually comes only from ignorance, that there's nothing I or any of us can say to you today on the eve of your deliberations to sway your minds.
I beg to differ with them. Moreover, we have been directed by the people of this country, by a majority vote of the House of Representatives, to fulfill and reaffirm a process and to present evidence to you and to argue this case to you. . . .
What you decide in this case, the case now before you, will tell America and the world what it is we have as a foundation for our nation, not just today, but for ages to come. It will tell us in this nation whether these seats here today will continue to be occupied by true statesmen; whether these seats in this chamber will continue to echo with the booming principles, eloquence and sense of duty of Daniel Webster, John Calhoun, Everett Dirksen, Robert Byrd.
I would add to that list statesman, my Georgian and your former colleague Sam Nunn, whose concern for duty and our national security caused him recently on CNN to raise grave concerns over our nation's security because of the reckless conduct of this President.
Will the principles embodied in our Constitution and our laws be reaffirmed, wrested from the pallid hands of pollsters and pundits and from the swarm of theorists surrounding these proceedings?
Will they be taken up by you and reaffirmed into the hands of Thomas Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison, Washington, Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr., and so many other true statesmen of America's heritage -- principles that have stricken down bigotry, tyrants and demagogues; principles that, through open and fair trials, have saved the innocent from the hangman's noose and likewise have sent the guilty, clothed in due process, to the nether regions. It is principle, founded and nurtured in our Constitution and law, that you are called upon now to both use and reaffirm.
Not only America is watching, but the world is, too. And for those who say people from foreign lands and in foreign lands deride this process and look down on it, I say, not so.
Let me speak briefly of a man not born in this country, but a man who has made this his country; a man born not in Atlanta, Ga., though Atlanta is now his home. A man born many thousands of miles away, in Eritrea, a man to who President Reagan surely was, in a sense, speaking, both in 1981 when he spoke of America's duty and in January 1985, when he spoke of the American sound that echoes still through the ages and across the continents.
The man whose words I quote is a man who watches this process through the eyes of an immigrant, Mr. Seyoum Tesfaye. Now, I've never met Mr. Tesfaye, but I've read his words. In the Feb. 5 Atlanta Journal and Constitution, just three days ago, he wrote that this impeachment process is an example of America at its best, a core constitutional principle that profoundly distinguishes America from almost all other nations.
He noted without hyperbole that this process, far from being the sorry spectacle that many of the President's defenders have tried to make it, truly is a hallmark of representative democracy, reaffirming the principle that no man is above the law, not even the President.
These are not the words of the House managers, though they echo ours. These are not the words of a partisan. They're the words of an immigrant, a man who came to America to study and who has stayed to work and pay taxes, just as countless millions of us do every day.
Men and women of the United States Senate, you must, by reaffirming your duty to render impartial justice based on the Constitution and the law, reaffirm those same laws and that very same Constitution which drew Mr. Tesfaye and millions of other immigrants to our shores over the ages. . . .
 
Steve Buyer
Republican of Indiana
I've heard some senators state publicly that they are using the standard of "beyond a reasonable doubt." But the Senate has held consistently that the criminal standard of proof is inappropriate for impeachment trials.
The result of conviction in an impeachment trial is removal from office; it is not meant to punish. You are to be guided by your own conscience, not by the criminal standard of proof of "beyond a reasonable doubt."
I have also heard some senators from both sides of the aisle state publicly, "I think these offenses rise to the level of high crimes and misdemeanors." Now to state publicly that you believe that high crimes and misdemeanors have occurred, but for some reason you have this desire not to remove the President -- that desire, though, does not square with the law, the Constitution, and the Senate's precedents for removing Federal judges for similar offenses.
Now so long as William Jefferson Clinton is President, the only mechanism to hold him accountable for his high crimes and misdemeanors is the power of impeachment and removal. The Constitution is very clear. You cannot vindicate the rule of law by stating high crimes and misdemeanors have occurred, but leave the President in office, subject to future prosecution after his term has expired.
Without respect for the law, the foundation of our Constitution is not secure. Without respect for the law, our freedom is at risk.
Now the President is answerable for his alleged crimes to the Senate here and now.
Moreover, if criminal prosecution and not impeachment is the way to vindicate the rule of law, then the Senate would never have removed other civil officers such as the Federal judges, who are not insulated from criminal prosecution while holding office.
Thus, in providing for criminal punishment after conviction and removal from office, it was the framers who ensured that the rule of law would be vindicated both in cleansing the office and in punishing the individual for the criminal act. . . .
You see, ladies and gentlemen, without choice, we were all born free. And we inherited a legacy of liberty at great sacrifice by many who have come before us. We cannot collectively as a free people enjoy the liberties without measured personal restraint.
And that's the purpose of the rule of law. It's the function of the courts to uphold the dignity of that prescription and the God-given liberties to all of us.
That's how we are able to carry this nation forward into future generations. . . .
 
Bill McCollum
Republican of Florida
Now, I am not going to rehash all of the evidence in this case again. But it is my understanding that some of you may be prepared to vote to convict the President on obstruction of justice and not on perjury. I don't know how you can do that. I honestly do not know how anybody could do that.
If you believe Sidney Blumenthal's testimony that the President told him that Monica Lewinsky came at him and made a sexual demand and that he rebuffed her and that she threatened him and said she would tell people they had had an affair and that she was known as the stalker among her peers, surely you must conclude that the President committed perjury when he told the grand jury that he told his aides, including Blumenthal, nothing but the truth, even if it was "misleading."
The exact quotes from the President's grand jury testimony -- people are worried about: "What are the exact quotes? What are the words?" I want to give you the words: "And so I said to them things that were true about this relationship -- so I said things that were true. They may have been misleading. So what I was trying to do was to give them something they could -- that would be true, even if misleading."
That was even played on television in the White House presentation a few minutes ago. That was perjury. What he told Sidney Blumenthal was not true. It wasn't just "misleading"; it was not true, and he knew it was not true, and it was perjury in front of the grand jury. . . .
Now, what are the consequences of failing to remove this President from office if you believe he's committed the crimes of perjury and obstruction of justice?
What are the consequences of failing to do that? What's the down side? First, at the very least, you will leave a precedent of doubt as to whether perjury and obstruction of justice are high crimes and misdemeanors when impeaching the President. In fact, your vote to acquit under these circumstances may well mean that no President of the future will ever be impeached or removed for perjury or obstruction of justice. Is that the record that you want?
Second, you'll be establishing the precedent that the standard for impeachment and removal of a President is different of that for impeaching and removing a judge or any other official. . . .
Third, if you believe the President committed the crimes of perjury and obstruction of justice and that they're high crimes and misdemeanors, but you do not believe a President should be removed when economic times are good and it's strongly against the popular will to do so, by voting to acquit, you'll be setting a precedent for future impeachment trials.
Can you imagine how damaging that could be to our constitutional form of government to set the precedent that no President will be removed from office for high crimes and misdemeanors unless the polls show that the public wants that to happen? Would our founding fathers have ever envisioned that? Of course not. Our Constitution was structured to avoid this very situation.
Fourth, then, there is what happens to the rule of law if you vote to acquit. What damage is done for future generations by a vote to acquit? Will more witnesses be inclined to commit perjury in trials? Will more jurors decide that perjury and obstruction of justice should not be crimes for which they convict? . . .
William Jefferson Clinton is not a king. He is our President. You have the power and the duty to remove him for office for high crimes and misdemeanors. I implore you to muster the courage of your convictions, to muster the courage the founding fathers believed that the Senate would always have in times like these. William Jefferson Clinton has committed high crimes and misdemeanors. Convict him, and remove him. . . .
 
Charles T. Canady
Republican of Florida
The President's defenders have not offered a clear guide to determining what is serious enough to justify removal. Instead, they have simply sought to minimize the significance of the particular offenses charged against the President.
Today we heard an attempt to minimize the significance of perjury. I was somewhat amazed to hear that. There was no mention made of what the first chief justice of the United States, Justice Jay, had to say about perjury being "of all crimes, the most pernicious to society." That was omitted from the President's analysis. . . .
Those who established our Constitution would have understood the seriousness of the misconduct of William Jefferson Clinton. They would have understood that it was the President who has shown contempt for the Constitution, not the managers from the House of Representatives.
They would have understood the seriousness of the example of lawlessness he has set. They would have understood the seriousness of the contempt for the law the President's conduct has caused. They would have understood the seriousness of the damage the President has done to the integrity of his high office.
Those wise statesmen, who established our form of government, would have understood the seriousness of the harm President Clinton has done to the cause of justice and constitutional government. They would have understood that a President who does such things should not remain in office with his crimes. . . .
 
Ed Bryant
Republican of Tennessee
Members of the Senate, distinguished colleagues, I want to -- distinguished colleagues at the bar representing the President -- want to commend them for an outstanding effort that they have made throughout these proceedings and tell them that I just read a poll, and it's from a couple of days ago, that something over 80 percent of the American people believe that the President is guilty of something here. So I think that moots our entire debate. I don't think there's any need to even talk about the facts any longer because of the poll.
I use that, tongue in cheek, because that seems to beg the question that we're also going to talk about today, and that is whether the President ought to be removed for this conduct. And one of the arguments I've heard put forward since we've been here is the fact that the polls support this President and that the stability issue would be in play. And that's simply not the case because we all clearly understand that it's this body's function to determine not only the facts of this case but also apply to it the law as well as the constitutional law as to the removal and conviction process. . . .
What has in large part made this process distinct from past impeachments -- and I'm talking about the one last century of the President and the subsequent judicial impeachments -- has been just the -- it seems the media and the daily grind on all of us, the critiques. It's almost like we're performing, we're in a play, and every day we get a review; we've been good or bad or indifferent.
And what concerns me most about that is that, as you move to the very serious issue of deciding whether or not this President should be convicted based on the facts, and whether that President should be removed, I'm concerned that people are stressing the trees. And if that's what you see on TV and what you read in the paper, you're going to see the trees and not the forest here, and miss the big picture, because that's so important.
It's not about the personalities of these people or the personalities here, or the politics involved or the polls, but it's about the facts. . . .
The law, like the facts, are a very stubborn thing. And the fact that the economy is good and people are doing well -- if the law has been broken, if perjury has been committed, if obstruction of justice has been committed by this President, it is my belief that the fact that the economy is good should not prevent this Senate from acting and removing the President. Just as if the economy were bad, you wouldn't be able to go in there and impeach the President because it's bad, you don't want to impeach him because -- simply because the economy is good. . . .
 
Asa Hutchinson
Republican of Arkansas
The White House defense team, composed of extraordinarily distinguished and talented attorneys, has tried to diminish the significance of the overwhelming facts on obstruction by using certain phrases, such as "it's all circumstantial," or "the managers ignore those stubborn facts," or "they want to win too badly," or "it's a shell game with no shell," and today the latest catch phrase, "moving targets, empty pots."
Well, those are certainly quotable phrases designed to diminish the factual presentation with dripping sarcasm.
But I believe that they ignore the underlying facts, testimony and evidence that has been presented. . . . Some of the other arguments have been handled by my colleagues, but Mr. Ruff also said, why have the managers never, never explained, if this was such an urgent matter for the President, why did he wait until Dec. 17 to tell Ms. Lewinsky that she was on the list?
Well, I'm afraid Mr. Ruff failed to listen to my opening presentation when I went through that time frame. And in that time frame, the witness list came out on Dec. 5, it continued to accelerate; Dec. 11 was Judge Wright's order. And then it was Dec. 17 that the call was made at 2 in the morning to let Ms. Lewinsky know she was on the list.
Why was it Dec. 17? This is in the President's mind; no one knows why he picked that particular date. But perhaps it was that the job search was well under way then; he felt like she could handle this distressing information. And in fact, on the day after that call, she already had two interviews lined up on that same day, Dec. 18, set up by Mr. Jordan. And so perhaps it was an appropriate time to let her know she was on the witness list. . . .
The fact of this matter is that this is not a case that is based upon circumstantial evidence. On each element of obstruction, there is direct testimony linking the President to a consistent pattern of conduct designed to withhold information, conceal evidence and tamper with witnesses to avoid obedience and directives of a Federal court. . . .
Now some of you might conclude that, "Well, I accept five or six or -- of those pillars of obstruction, but there's one I have a reservation about." Well, if you look at the article, if there's one element of obstruction that you accept and believe and you agree upon, then that is sufficient for conviction, and surely it's sufficient to convict the President if there is even one element of obstruction.
I would remind you that a typical jury instruction on conspiracy for obstruction would be that it only takes one overt act to satisfy the requirements for a conviction. The Government does not have to prove all the overt acts, just one that was carried out.
Another question some of you might be thinking about: Is this serious enough to warrant conviction and removal? One of the foundations of our judicial system is that any citizen, regardless of position or power, has access to the court. Can you imagine the shock and outrage of this body if a corporation, in an effort to protect itself from liability, concealed evidence and provided benefits to those witnesses who were cooperative? Outrage. Injustice. . . .
The next argument is: "Well, yes, the President should be held accountable, but he can always be prosecuted later. In fact, I understand a censure resolution is being circulated, emphasizing that the President can be held criminally responsible for his actions when he leaves office."
This is not too subtle of a suggestion that the independent counsel go ahead and file criminal charges against the President. I appreciate Judge Starr, but I do not believe that is what the country has in mind when they say they want to get this matter over. I do not believe your vote on the articles of impeachment should be a signal to the independent counsel to initiate criminal proceedings. It appears to me that that is the implication of the censure resolution being discussed.
I would emphasize that it is this body that the founding fathers entrusted with the responsibility to determine whether a President's conduct has breached the public trust, and your decision in this body should conclude this matter. It should not be the initiation of another national drama that will be carried out over the next three years. . . .
 
James E. Rogan
Republican of California
I used to be a Democrat. And being a House manager in the impeachment of President Clinton has been especially difficult for me, and I'd like to tell you why.
Twenty years ago, in December 1978, I was finishing my last semester of college and had just applied to law school.
I was waiting for my application to be accepted someplace. And in December of 1978, I was a delegate in Memphis, Tenn., to the Democratic Mid-Term Convention.
Now at that time, President Carter was halfway through his term of office. He was not particularly popular among the party faithful. There was a great deal of sentiment that a member of this body today should challenge him for the nomination. That decision had not yet been made.
But among the delegates to that convention, there was an overwhelming desire to see Senator Ted Kennedy appear. The Carter White House froze Senator Kennedy out of the proceedings. He was not invited to address the convention. His name appeared nowhere in the program.
So the delegates did something on their own. There were workshops being held during the day, and a workshop on health care was called. And Senator Kennedy was invited to fly out that day and address that workshop. And he did that in the afternoon, and he left after he addressed it.
I had gone to a workshop that morning where President Carter personally appeared, and my recollection is about 200 or 300 people came to that. Senator Kennedy's workshop had to be transferred to a large auditorium because about 2,000 people appeared to hear him. The Senator came, he spoke, and he left.
I stayed, even though most people left with him because I was fascinated by the young fellow who was moderating the program that day. He was bright, he was in control, he was articulate. He didn't look that much older than me. And I was stunned that this young man was not only the Attorney General of his state, but he was the Governor-elect of his state.
Some time after that workshop, I walked up to him and introduced myself. I told him who I was. And he spent about 15 minutes encouraging me to go to law school, to stay active in politics. His name was Bill Clinton.
I have never forgotten that day 20 years ago, when then-Attorney General Clinton took the time for a young fellow, who had an interest in the law and politics. And I have never forgotten in recent days the graciousness he has shown to me, to my wife and to my children when we have encountered him.
This has been a very difficult proceeding for me and for my colleagues, the House managers. But our presence here isn't out of personal animosity toward our President. It is because we believed that after reviewing all the evidence, the President of the United States had committed obstruction of justice and perjury. He had violated his oath of office. And in so doing, he had sacrificed the principle that no person is above the law. And friendship and personal affection could not control under those circumstances. . . .
 
Lindsey Graham
Republican of South Carolina
I come from a district where I'm the first Republican in 120 years. They tell me they hung the other guy, so I know I'm doing better. . . . I am a sinner like the rest of you, and the -- part of the problem with this case is that we have to confront our own sins, because who are we to judge others when the things get to be private and personal? I'm not asking you to use that standard. I'm standing before you as a sinner, and I would never want my President or your President removed because of private sins.
Only when it gets to be constitutionally out of bounds, only when it gets to be so egregious that you can't look your children in the eye and explain what happened here in terms of the law -- we can all explain human failings, but we've got a real mixed message going on, and it needs to be straightened out quickly.
If you could bring the founding fathers back, as everybody suggested, the first debate would -- could we call them as a witness? There would be some people objecting to that. Live or dead, it's been hard to get a witness.
And I guarantee you -- you know what I think they would tell us? "What's a poll?" They would be instructive, but we can't summon them back.
But you know what I really think they would tell us? "We started this thing; it's up to you all to carry it on." And it is, and they would be right. . . .
And let me tell you where it all comes down, to me. If you can go back and explain to your children and your constituents how you can be truthful and misleading at the same time, good luck. That's the legacy Bill Clinton has left all of us, if we keep him in office. The idea that "I was truthful, but misleading" -- that scenario focuses around whether or not one type of sex occurred versus the other type of sex. . . .
That Jan. 21 when the cover story -- when the story broke -- that she may have been telling what went on and the President was faced with the idea that the knowledge of the relationship was out in the public forum, what did he do then?
There was no more nice jobs using a good friend. There was no more "Let's see if we can hide the gifts and play 'hide the ball.' " You know what happened then? He turned on her. It's not my favorite part of the case. It's the most disgusting part of the case. It's the part of the case that history will judge.
The crimes change; they become more ominous because the character traits become more ominous. The young lady that was the stalker, that was sex-obsessed, that wore her skirts too tight, that young lady was being talked about openly in public. That young lady was being lied about in a Federal grand jury, and the truth is, that young lady fell in love with him and probably to this day, the 24- or -5-year-old young girl doesn't believe it or want to believe what was going to come her way. . . .
 
Henry J. Hyde
Republican of Illinois
I want to compliment the President's counsel. They have conducted themselves in the most professional way. They have made the most of a poor case, in my opinion. There is an old Italian saying, and it has nothing to do with the lawyers, but to the case. It says: you may dress the shepherd in silk; he will still smell of the goat. But all of you are great lawyers and it's been an adventure being with you. . . .
As for the House managers, I want to tell you and our extraordinary staff how proud I am of your service. For myself, I cannot find the words to adequately express how I feel. I must use the inaudible language of the heart. I've gone through it all by your side: the media condemnations, the patronizing editorials, the hate mail, the insults hurled in public, the attempts at intimidation, the death threats and even the disapproval of our colleagues, which cuts the worst. You know, all a congressman ever gets to take with him when he leaves this building is the esteem of his colleagues and his constituents. We've risked that for a principle and for our duty as we've seen it. . . .
But our most formidable opponent has not been opposing counsel, nor any political party; it's been cynicism, the widespread conviction that all politics and all politicians are by definition corrupt and venal. That cynicism is an acid eating away at the vital organs of American public life. It is a clear and present danger because it blinds us to the nobility and the fragility of being a self-governing people.
One of the several questions that needs answer is whether your vote on conviction lessens or enlarges that cynicism. Nothing begets cynicism like the double standard -- one rule for the popular and the powerful, and another for the rest of us.
One of the most interesting things in this trial was the testimony of the President's good friend, the former Senator from Arkansas. He did his persuasive best to maintain the confusion that this is all about sex. . . .
One phrase you have not heard the defense pronounce is the "sanctity of the oath." But this case deeply involves the efficacy, the meaning and the enforceability of the oath. Ms. Seligman last Saturday said we "want to win too badly." This surprised me because none of the managers has committed perjury nor obstructed justice, nor claimed false privileges; none has hidden evidence under anyone's bed, nor encouraged false testimony before the grand jury. That's what you do if you want to win too badly. . . .
I am still dumbfounded about the drafts of the censures that are circulating. We aren't half as tough on the President in our impeachment articles as this draft is that was printed in The New York Times: "An inappropriate relationship with a subordinate employee in the White House, which was shameless, reckless and indefensible."
I have a problem with that. It seems they are talking about private acts of consensual sexual misconduct, which are really none of our business. But that's the leadoff. Then they say: The President "deliberately misled and deceived the American people and officials in all branches of the United States Government." This is not a Republican document, this is coming from here.
The President "gave false or misleading testimony and impeded discovery of evidence in judicial proceedings." Isn't that another way of saying "obstruction of justice and perjury"?
The President's conduct "demeans the Office of the President, as well as the President himself, and creates disrespect for the laws of the land."
"Future generations of Americans must know that such behavior is not only unacceptable, but bears grave consequences, including loss of integrity, trust and respect." But not loss of job.
"Whereas William Jefferson Clinton's conduct has brought shame and dishonor to himself and to the Office of the President."
Whereas he has "violated the trust of the American people" -- see Hamilton Federalist No. 65 -- and he should be condemned "in the strongest terms." Well, the next to the strongest terms. The strongest terms would remove him from office. Well, do you really cleanse the office, as provided in the Constitution, or do you use the Air Wick of a censure resolution? Because any censure resolution, to be meaningful, has to punish the President, if only his reputation. And how do you deal with the laws of bill of attainder? How do you deal with the separation of powers? What kind of a precedent are you setting? . . . Once in a while, I do worry about the future. I wonder if after this culture war is over that we're engaged in, if an America will survive that's worth fighting to defend. People won't risk their lives for the U.N. or over the Dow Jones averages, but I wonder in future generations whether there'll be enough vitality left in duty, honor and country to excite our children and grandchildren to defend America.
There's no denying the fact that what you decide, it will have a profound effect on our culture as well as on our politics. A failure to convict will make a statement that lying under oath, while unpleasant and to be avoided, is not all that serious. Perhaps we can explain this to those currently in prison for perjury. We have reduced lying under oath to a breach of etiquette, but only if you are the President.
Wherever and whenever you avert your eyes from a wrong, from an injustice, you become a part of the problem.
On the subject of civil rights, it's my belief this issue doesn't belong to anyone. It belongs to everyone. It certainly belongs to those who have suffered invidious discrimination, and one would have to be catatonic not to know that the struggle to keep alive equal protection of the law never ends. The mortal enemy of equal justice is the double standard. And if we permit a double standard even for the President, we do no favor to the cause of human rights.
It's been said that America has nothing to fear from this President on the subject of civil rights. I doubt Paula Jones would subscribe to that endorsement. If you agree that perjury and obstruction of justice have been committed, and yet you vote down the conviction, you're expending and expanding the boundaries of permissible Presidential conduct.
You're saying a perjurer and an obstructor of justice can be President in the face of no less than three precedents for conviction of Federal judges for perjury. You shred those precedents, and you raise the most serious questions of whether the President is in fact subject to the law or whether we are beginning a restoration of the divine right of kings.
The issues we're concerned with have consequences far into the future, because the real damage is not to the individuals involved, but to the American system of justice, and especially the principle that no one is above the law. . . .
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HYDE, HENRY J (REPR); SENSENBRENNER, F JAMES (REPR); CANNON, CHRISTOPHER B (REPR); BARR, BOB (REPR); GEKAS, GEORGE W (REPR); CHABOT, STEVE (REPR); BUYER, STEVE E (REPR); MCCOLLUM, BILL (REPR); CANADY, CHARLES T (REPR); HUTCHISON, ASA (REPR); ROGAN, JAMES E (REPR); GRAHAM, LINDSEY (REPR); STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (88%); STEVE BUYER (72%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); STEVE CHABOT (57%); CHRIS CANNON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



203 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Hobbles Back to Work

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 8

 BODY:
Walking with aluminum crutches and a pronounced limp, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman returned to the New Jersey State House today for her first public appearance since breaking a leg on Jan. 31 while skiing in Switzerland.
Mrs. Whitman was attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, and was skiing with her husband during a break between meetings when she caught the edge of her ski in hard snow and lost control, she said. Mrs. Whitman swerved uphill, twisted and fell, snapping both bones in her lower right leg. 
 The break was so severe that Swiss surgeons used seven metal screws to attach a titanium rod to steady her tibia, the larger bone, as it heals. Mrs. Whitman had to cancel her trip to visit NATO troops in Stuttgart, Germany, and a speaking engagement before the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce at its annual excursion to Washington on Thursday. She returned to the United States on Thursday night and worked from her home on Friday.
Mrs. Whitman, an avid skier and gifted athlete who appeared slightly abashed by the accident, said she was resuming her normal schedule, with a few minor adjustments to her wardrobe and speaking style.
"You're going to see a lot more pant suits and very short speeches," she said. "It hurts to stand in one place too long."
Mrs. Whitman's leg did not require a cast, but her private physician, Dr. Robert D'Agostini, said he had urged her not to place more than 20 percent of her weight on the leg to allow the bone to heal. Dr. D'Agostini, flanked by before-and-after X-rays of the Governor's broken bones, said she could probably resume many of her athletic activities in six weeks, but he said the titanium rod would not be surgically removed for a year or two.
The Governor is scheduled to make another public appearance at the State House on Tuesday, to sign an energy deregulation bill into law.
Mrs. Whitman plans to stick to her busy schedule of business travel as she recuperates. This weekend, she is to fly to Florida for a Republican leadership event, and later this month is to attend the National Governors' Association conference in Washington.
Next month, Mrs. Whitman is to conduct a three-country swing through South America in an attempt to strengthen trade relations between New Jersey businesses and Latin America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the State House for the first time since breaking her leg, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman yesterday displayed X-rays and said she would make "very short speeches" until standing is less painful. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); GERMANY (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); GERMANY (87%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BONE FRACTURES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (61%); ARMED FORCES (54%); ENERGY REGULATION (50%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



204 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

H.M.O.'s Agree to Help Pay Members' Drug Trial Costs
After years of resistance, health maintenance organizations have agreed to help pay the costs of care for members who enroll in clinical trials evaluating new drugs and medical procedures. As a result, thousands of patients could receive promising new treatments they were denied in the past.
The agreement was negotiated over the last year by the National Institutes of Health and the American Association of Health Plans, the trade group of the managed care industry, but has not yet been announced. A21. 

Selling Music Via the Internet
Major recording companies will begin marketing albums as digital information transmitted over the Internet. A new system to be tested this spring is intended to sell authorized recordings in a medium where most of the music now circulates for free. C12.
 
Technology Shares Rebound
Stock prices were mixed as bellwether technology issues such as Microsoft and Intel rebounded after falling last week, but blue-chip securities and shares in small companies, including Internet stocks, slid in value. Traders and analysts said the market's performance was impressive in light of the sharp run-up in prices since October and several new pressures that could lead to a sharp selloff. C14.
 
Bond prices snapped a five-day decline, ending little changed ahead of a Treasury refunding auction. The 30-year bond yield fell to 5.34 percent from 5.35. C14.
 
Another Year 2000 Problem
Year 2000 project managers and other authorities are warning that Americans fearing the worst may end up inflicting more serious damage on themselves, their neighbors and the economy than anything their computers do. Planning experts say those scenarios could include bank runs, hoarding of food and gasoline, fires caused by misuse of newly acquired wood stoves and generators, and a rise in gun violence stemming from the surge in firearm sales to those fearing civil unrest. A1.
 
China Restrains Airline Growth
Chinese authorities asked suppliers of commercial aircraft to delay deliveries to the nation's airlines, which have been expanding aggressively. Fare wars and half-empty flights, unknown in China until recently, are now common among China's two dozen airlines. It now seems unlikely that any new orders will be made this year -- bad news for Boeing and Airbus, which compete for China's business. C4.
 
Shandong International Power Development shelved a $285 million initial public offering, the third major Chinese company in a month to call off an overseas stock sale. C4.
 
3 Exchanges Plan Venture
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Bourse in Paris and the Singapore International Monetary Exchange signed an agreement that would allow futures and options to be traded as part of a global electronic network that would operate around the clock. C13.
 
BMW Shares Rise Despite Turmoil
Shares of BMW rose 8.6 percent on the possibility of a sale, despite a bitter boardroom dispute over the company's strategy that led to the ouster of BMW's top two executives and losses at its Rover subsidiary. Ignoring speculation that it would be taken over by a larger rival, the company said again that it intended to stay independent. C4.
 
Strengthened Audit Rules Proposed
A panel created by the leading stock exchanges and markets recommended rules that would strengthen the role of audit committees at public companies. Market Place. C13.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,291.11 down 13.13
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.34% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 114.43 yen up 1.23
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows U.S. Productivity
Fourth-quarter figures due at 10. A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +4.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); CME (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); SHANDONG, CHINA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); BOEING CO (52%); SHANDONG INTERNATIONAL POWER DEVELOPMENT CO LTD (51%); CME GROUP INC (51%); SINGAPORE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY EXCHANGE LTD (50%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); SHANDONG, CHINA (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRLINES (88%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); FUTURES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUCTIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); RIOTS (69%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (67%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (66%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); AIR FARES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



205 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Jordan Mourns Its King, Joined by Foreign Leaders
An extraordinary array of presidents, prime ministers and princes gathered to honor King Hussein at his funeral in Amman. In keeping with Muslim tradition, there were no eulogies, no songs and no speeches during the funeral ceremonies. A1 

President Clinton led an American delegation that included three former Presidents. Mr. Clinton offered American moral and financial support as the new King, Abdullah, began his reign. A11
 
The funeral was an almost entirely male affair, in keeping with what the palace called an Arab Muslim tradition that mourning occasions should be segregated by sex. A11
 
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, saluted King Hussein as his body lay in state, but conversations with ordinary Palestinians showed mixed feelings toward the monarch. A11
 
Tests Raise Doubts in Sudan
Chemists who examined soil samples from a Sudanese pharmaceutical plant destroyed in August by American cruise missiles found no traces of chemical weapon compounds, according to a scientist hired by the owner of the plant. The findings raise new questions about the American Government's reliance on earlier tests of soil samples. The strike was a response to the bombings of two American embassies in Africa. A3
 
Kosovo Talks Struggle
Plans for using NATO troops in Kosovo, a key element for an agreement at the peace talks in France, were lagging far behind as negotiations entered a second session, officials said. How a NATO force would be deployed and discussions over what authority it would have in Kosovo were far from final, the officials said, even though a two-week deadline had been set for the talks. A6
 
Vatican Closes Case on Attack
The Vatican concluded, nine months after the commander of the Swiss Guards was killed inside the Holy See, that the initial hypothesis by church investigators -- that he was killed by a disgruntled subordinate -- was correct. A5
 
Malaysian Answers Charges
The former Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, Anwar Ibrahim, took the stand in his defense five months after he was ousted and jailed on corruption and sex-related charges. A6
 
Mexican Opposition Inroads
Weekend elections for governor in two Mexican states, the first major voting in the country this year, demonstrated the continuing growth of a left-of-center political party that has capitalized on dissension within the party in power. A7
 
Zimbabwe Pressure on Press
Two days after President Robert Mugabe went on national television threatening "very stern measures" against the independent press, three more journalists were arrested. (NYT)
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A12-21
 
Closing Statements Made In Impeachment Trial
House prosecutors and lawyers for President Clinton delivered closing statements. The Senate will begin deliberations today. Votes on the two articles of impeachment are planned for Thursday or Friday. Conviction is not expected. Consideration of a censure resolution could follow. A1
 
Support among senators for a bipartisan rebuke of President Clinton grew, but chances that it would pass diminished because of procedural roadblocks put up by opponents. A16
 
The Republican leader, Trent Lott, will oppose opening the Senate's final deliberations, virtually assuring that senators' speeches will be made behind closed doors. A1
 
When his impeachment trial ends -- most likely in acquittal -- Mr. Clinton will not surround himself with grinning Democrats and declare himself exonerated, aides say. A16
 
The Justice Department has told Kenneth W. Starr that it will investigate his handling of the Lewinsky matter, but it has not yet started an inquiry, officials say. A17
 
Affidavits that House prosecutors sought to introduce might open the door for a criminal investigation of the White House aide Sidney Blumenthal. A16
 
Dole States Her Case
Elizabeth Dole, speaking in New Hampshire in her first speech as a possible contender for the Republican Presidential nomination, cited her three decades in public service as evidence that she is a good-hearted but firm conservative who could restore integrity to Government. A12
 
Gun Industry Gains in Georgia
Gun manufacturers and their supporters got the Georgia Senate to pass the first bill in the nation intended to block cities from filing suits against the gun industry. The House earlier passed the measure and the Governor is expected to sign it. A1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Savings in Welfare Funds Swell the State's Surplus
The budget surplus is $500 million more than estimated, or $2.5 billion total, because of a surplus in Federal welfare funds that the Pataki administration built up as the number of people getting assistance fell. B1
 
Union Leader's Posh Quarters
Reporters and some union members had a tour of the penthouse office and apartment of Gus Bevona, who was forced to retire last week as president of the building-maintenance workers union. What they saw helped to explain why Mr. Bevona discouraged rank-and-file visitors. B1
 
Crash Prompts Murder Charges
A New York City corrections officer was arraigned in Suffolk County on second-degree murder charges in the deaths of three young people in a fiery New Year's Eve crash. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
Acting Faster Against Strokes
The time for treating stroke patients with clot-busting drugs has been doubled, to six hours, without greatly raising the risk of hemorrhage. F14
 
Health & Fitness F6-14
 
ARTS E1-8
 
FASHION B9
 
OBITUARIES C30-31
 
Iris Murdoch
The inventive and idiosyncratic British writer whose 26 novels offered lively plots, complex characters and intellectual speculation was 79. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-30
 
Their Own Worst Enemy?
Americans fearing the worst from the Year 2000 computer problem may end up inflicting more serious damage on themselves, their neighbors and the economy than anything the computers do, according to experts on the subject. A1
 
USA Networks-Lycos Deal
USA Networks, whose companies sell goods on line, on television and over the telephone, has agreed to take control of Lycos, the fourth-most-popular network of Internet sites, people close to the deal said. C1
 
New Microsoft Approach Seen
Microsoft is moving to reorganize itself into divisions focused on different customer groups rather than on products, analysts said. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: The case goes to the Senate; holding fire; a silent, mournful eloquence; Mr. Pataki retreats on early education.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2
 
TV Listings E7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); JORDAN (92%); SUDAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); JORDAN (92%); SUDAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPEACHMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); WITNESSES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); CHEMISTRY (73%); ARRESTS (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (63%); CORRUPTION (62%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



206 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: DEATH OF A KING: THE AMERICANS;
Clinton Lauds King Hussein As Man of Vision and Spirit

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Feb. 8

 BODY:
President Clinton came here today to bury King Hussein of Jordan and to praise his son Abdullah, the new King.
Mr. Clinton led an American delegation including three former Presidents to this grieving and gloomy capital. He met briefly with King Abdullah this evening in the King's office at the Raghadan Palace after his father was buried. 
 The President offered American moral and financial support as the new King begins his reign facing domestic economic trouble and recurrent strains in efforts to fashion a lasting Middle Eastern peace.
The President and Hillary Rodham Clinton also paid a condolence call on King Hussein's widow, the American-born Queen Noor, before returning to Washington late tonight.
Mr. Clinton spoke in public only once today, delivering brief remarks to American Embassy employees this evening at a local hotel. He said of King Hussein: "He really was driven not by the title he had, but by the responsibilities it bore. And he was ennobled not by the title, but by the strength of his own character and his vision and his spirit."
Mr. Clinton described the new King as embodying the strength and humility of his father. And he spoke of King Abdullah's commitment to domestic development and regional peace.
"He clearly understands his mission," Mr. Clinton said. "He said in the most moving way: 'I and all of my brothers and sisters have absorbed our father's teaching. We know what we are supposed to do, and I intend to do it.' "
Former Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and George Bush accompanied Mr. Clinton aboard Air Force One to pay their respects. The four Presidents filed into the throne room of the Raghadan Palace just after 2 P.M. and paused in tribute for about seven seconds before Hussein's coffin.
Kings and queens, presidents and prime ministers flew into Amman today in a dramatic display of respect for the late King. Israeli and Syrian leaders came to the same place for the same purpose for the first time in memory, senior American officials said. Iran and Libya sent delegations, as did Iraq and Russia.
Mr. Carter said, "I don't think I have ever seen a greater outpouring of the world's appreciation and the world's love for a human being than I've seen today."
The Israeli delegation, led by President Ezer Weizman and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was itself a study in how the death of one man can serve, for a day at least, as a unifying force: all major factions of Israeli politics were represented.
"I could hardly believe my eyes," Mr. Clinton said with a laugh, describing the Israeli entourage. "All the candidates for Prime Minister were there. They were all walking together. I don't know if they talk at home, but they were all talking here. I thought it was as if Hussein was hugging them all, you know?
"It was really a beautiful sight: people coming from all around the world, countries that are at each other's throats, here meeting in peace and friendship and the sanctity of the umbrella of this great man."
The presence of the current and former American Presidents was intended as "an extremely strong statement to the people of Jordan that America stands with them during this difficult period," said Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser.
"I think the fact that three of the four former Presidents chose to come here," Mr. Berger said, "and that four American Presidents will be standing together should be a powerful statement to the Jordanian people about how strongly we feel about the relationship."
Also in the American delegation were two Senators, Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, and Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. In Washington today, the rest of the Senate heard closing arguments in the impeachment trial of the President.
Mr. Leahy said the King's funeral provided a welcome relief from the trial, now entering its fifth week of detailed and redundant testimony. "I was so tired of that trial," Mr. Leahy said.
The President's party also included two House members, Benjamin A. Gilman, Republican of upstate New York, and David E. Bonior, Democrat of Michigan.
Najeeb and Doris Halaby, Queen Noor's parents, also traveled with the President.
The funeral provided an occasion for Mr. Clinton to meet briefly with a rare gathering of world leaders, including Mr. Netanyahu, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, and President Hafez al-Assad of Syria.
Officials said the meetings had been brief and had not involved extended substantive discussions of the stalled Middle East peace negotiations. But in each, Mr. Clinton asked that Jordan's neighbors provide help during a time of transition, Mr. Berger said.
To Mr. Assad, the President said: "I'm glad you're here. I hope you'll help Jordan," Mr. Berger said. Mr. Assad replied enigmatically, according to Mr. Berger: "He sort of said yes."
Mr. Clinton also greeted Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, President Jacques Chirac of France, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, King Juan Carlos of Spain, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan.
Mr. Clinton also met briefly with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, whom American officials had not expected to attend the funeral because of failing health. Mr. Yeltsin needed assistance to climb the stairs of the palace where King Hussein's body lay in state before burial and left quickly, accompanied by aides who appeared to be carrying bags of medical equipment.
But Mr. Yeltsin rose when Mr. Clinton approached him, bellowing, "Bill Clinton!" Presidential aides said. He embraced Mr. Clinton, but without the bearlike strength of heartier times.
"He's obviously very ill," a senior American official said.
Mr. Berger said the President was confident that King Abdullah would remain engaged in the Arab-Israeli peace negotiations, even as he tries to consolidate his power and address serious domestic economic issues.
Mr. Clinton spent considerable time with his predecessors, both on Air Force One and during the daylong funeral observances. Aides said the four men had spoken for 90 minutes aboard the aircraft, sharing reminiscences about King Hussein and discussing the Middle East, Kosovo and Russia. Aides said the subject of Mr. Clinton's impeachment trial had not come up.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners included President Yeltsin of Russia, above, and, in picture at left, Senator Patrick Leahy, left rear, and President Chirac of France to the left of former Presidents Carter and Ford and President Clinton. (Associated Press); Abdullah, Jordan's new King, and other members of the royal family praying over the grave of King Hussein at the Raghadan Palace in Amman. In front, a Royal Guard stands to attention with a rifle barrel in the air. (Photographs by Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JORDAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; ISRAEL; JORDAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ROYAL FAMILY; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ABDULLAH (KING OF JORDAN); HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN); NOOR AL-HUSSEIN (QUEEN); BRODER, JOHN M; CARTER, JIMMY; FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); PATRICK LEAHY (50%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



207 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NAC RE AND XL CAPITAL CONFIRM MERGER TALKS

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The NAC Re Corporation, the Greenwich, Conn., reinsurer, and the Bermuda insurance company XL Capital Ltd. confirmed yesterday that they were in merger talks. On Sunday, Reuters reported that NAC Re was in talks with several companies, including XL Capital, about a deal that would value NAC Re at more than $1 billion. XL Capital's chief executive, Brian M. O'Hara, said, "Our discussions with NAC Re stem from our strong belief that a combination of our two companies would generate unique strategic advantages and be economically beneficial to both companies' shareholders." A merger would create a company with about $13.3 billion in assets. XL Capital, the new name of Exel Ltd., fell 43.75 cents, to $61.9375. NAC Re rose $6.8125, to $51.125. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XL (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NAC RE CORP; XL CAPITAL LTD XL GROUP PLC (98%); NAC RE CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NAC RE CORP; XL CAPITAL LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (88%); REINSURANCE (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



208 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: New York Gets Big Windfall From Welfare

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 8

 BODY:
The Pataki administration has quietly built up a $500 million surplus in Federal welfare money over the last two years as a result of the dramatic decline in the number of people on public assistance, and expects that sum to grow to $1.4 billion in the next budget year.
The administration acknowledged the existence of the surplus in the text of the budget that Gov. George E. Pataki proposed two weeks ago, but it went largely unnoticed by the Legislature. The budget called for spending $1 billion of the welfare money on a range of programs to help people make the transition from public assistance to work. It also proposed keeping nearly $400 million in a reserve fund to hedge against a downturn in the economy. 
 The $500 million in Federal welfare money that the state has already stockpiled means that the state's current budget surplus is not $2 billion, as has been widely estimated, but $2.5 billion. The revelation of this pot of money is likely to touch off a fierce battle with the Legislature over how to use it.
The amount that has piled up in New York's coffers dwarfs that of neighboring states. In Connecticut, for example, state officials have used almost all of its $534 million in Federal welfare grants over the last two years on child care and other programs for the poor. In New Jersey, officials have a welfare surplus of $280 million for the two years but plan to use about $60 million of that total to provide child care for the poor and to pay for administrative costs associated with running antipoverty programs. The rest will be kept in a rainy-day fund.
The trend to hold back on welfare spending in the region reflects what Federal officials say is a nationwide practice. According to the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, states had an unused balance of $3 billion, out of $12 billion available in the first nine months of last year.
Under the new Federal regulations, the states can set aside welfare grants year to year instead of having to spend a grant all in a particular year.
The savings that New York has accumulated stem from extensive changes that the Federal Government made to its welfare program in 1996. Under those changes, the Government ceased paying states according to the number of welfare recipients they have. Instead, it provides states with block grants based on years when their caseloads were high.
Because most states have reduced their welfare caseloads in recent years, the grants provide them with a financial windfall.
In the case of New York, where the welfare rolls have dropped dramatically over the last four years, state officials receive about $2.33 billion a year from the Federal Government. The money can only be used to pay benefits or to establish programs that help welfare recipients find work -- from job training to child care.
Of the roughly $4.6 billion that New York has received over the last two years, it has spent all but $500 million.
The savings that the state has on hand, along with the $900 million it expects to save next year from its Federal block grant, place New York in a strong position to expand programs intended to help recipients enter the work force. Advocates for the poor say such programs are critically important now that the Federal Government has set strict limits on the amount of time that people are allowed to receive public assistance grants.
Karen Schimke, the executive director of the State Communities Aid Society, an advocacy group for the poor, said the need to expand such programs was particularly pressing because many of those people who remained on the welfare rolls had inadequate education and other problems that have made them difficult to employ.
"These are people who are going to need lots of extra support and services," she said. "This money could be invaluable to helping many recipients find and retain jobs."
New York's welfare rolls have dropped by roughly 500,000 people over the last four years, to about 978,000. Many experts credit the decline to increased job opportunities that have come with a booming economy.
Advocates for the poor have been urging the state to use this time of prosperity to rechannel money it is saving in decreased welfare benefits to expand programs that will help poor people find and keep jobs.
The proposal the Governor submitted in his budget represents a major commitment to that end, his aides said. But advocates for the poor assert that the state should have already been investing that money in such programs, instead of salting it away. Of the $1.4 billion that the state expects to save from its Federal welfare grant, the Pataki administration intends to spend $388 million next year for a variety of programs that would provide additional day care for poor parents, mostly welfare recipients, who either have to work or attend job-training programs.
The administration also plans to use nearly $70 million for drug treatment and alcohol rehabilitation programs, as well as initiatives intended to prevent the children of welfare recipients from dropping out of school.
The Governor's plan also calls for earmarking $200 million for job-training programs. That would bring the total spending for such programs to $740 million in the four years that Mr. Pataki has been in office.
The biggest share of the savings, $370 million, would be set aside to provide increased benefits for welfare recipients in the event that the economy becomes sluggish.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (72%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



209 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LEONTIEF, WASSILY

 BODY:
LEONTIEF-Wassily. The New York University community mourns the death of Wassily Leontief, a Nobel Laureate, a long-time professor of economics and director of NYU's Institute of Economic Analysis. He was a scholar of extraordinary distinction, richly deserving of the high honors he was accorded. He was also a colleague with a delightful temperament, and a teacher with a passion for expanding human knowledge and conveying it to students. His contributions to the understanding of how economies work will remain a crucial advance in his field. His energetic presence added much to the life of the University, and he will be sorely missed. L. Jay Oliva, President Martin Lipton, Chairman, Board of Trustees
LEONTIEF-Wassily. The Board of Trustees, alumni, residents and staff of International House note with sorrow the passing of our distinguished alumnus Wassily Leontief, recipient of the 1995 Harry Edmonds Award for Outstanding Lifetime Achievement for his many contributions to global society through his brilliant research in economics. Our sympathy is extended to his beloved wife and family. Paul A. Volcker, Chairman Donald L. Cuneo, President 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (89%); BOARD OF TRUSTEES (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (89%); BOARD OF TRUSTEES (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); 

PERSON: LEONTIEF, WASSILY WASSILY W LEONTIEF (95%); MARTIN LIPTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



210 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Leftist Opposition Party in Mexico Wins Two Governors' Races

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 8

 BODY:
Elections for governor in two states over the weekend, the nation's first major voting this year, demonstrate the continuing growth of a left-of-center party that has capitalized on dissension in the governing party.
The challenger, the Party of the Democratic Revolution, won the top post in Baja California Sur, which includes Los Cabos and other beach resorts that Americans visit. Its candidate, Leonel Cota Montano, trounced his opponent from the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, 55 to 36 percent. 
 Mr. Cota built his coalition with the help of disgruntled members of the governing party who had hoped to be the party's candidate or to help choose the candidate. They bolted to the Party of the Democratic Revolution when their views were disregarded.
The voting on Sunday was uneventful, with few irregularities reported. The PRI did not challenge Mr. Cota's victory.
Since July 1997, the Party of the Democratic Revolution has won three gubernatorial posts. In Zacatecas and Tlaxcala, the party also achieved statehouse victories last year by winning disaffected leaders from the governing party.
In addition, the political leader of the party, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas Solorzano, won the powerful office of Mayor of Mexico City, with official stature equal to a governor.
A few years ago the party, which criticizes market-oriented policies and favors a strong role for the state in the economy and politics, labored under the image of a scrappy opposition that was good at organizing street protests but not at governing.
In the election on Sunday in the troubled southwestern state of Guerrero, the two parties battled to a photo finish. According to official results, with 98 percent of the vote counted at midday today, the PRI candidate, Rene Juarez Cisneros, was leading, with 48 percent of the vote, ahead of Felix Salgado Macedonio of the Party of the Democratic Revolution, who had 46.
Although the governing party celebrated, the president of the Party of the Democratic Revolution, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, rejected the results as a "Government-engineered fraud." He announced that his party would seek to overturn the results and seek a recount.
Mr. Lopez Obrador accused Interior Minister Francisco Labastida Ochoa, a member of the governing party, of rigging the election. Opposition poll watchers in many precincts contended that stalwarts from the governing party had handed out food and bags of cement in exchange for votes.
"The PRI once again trafficked on the poverty of the voters by distributing presents in return for their votes," Mr. Lopez Obrador said.
In the early hours of the count, the opposition led by a substantial margin. That vanished in the final hours of the tally.
Officials of the Party of the Democratic Revolution said 17,000 votes had been annulled statewide because of alleged irregularities, enough to tip the count away from their party.
For decades Guerrero was dominated by the Figueroa family, the autocratic political dynasty. Ruben Figueroa Alcocer, who was elected Governor in 1993, was forced to resign in 1996 because of suspicions that he masterminded a cover-up of the killing by state police in 1995 of 22 farm workers who supported the opposition.
President Ernesto Zedillo has sent confusing signals to his party over his role in choosing candidates for the presidential election next year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday about two gubernatorial elections in Mexico misstated the outcome. As the article noted, the leftist opposition party, the Party of the Democratic Revolution, won one election -- in Baja California Sur state -- not two. In the other state, Guerrero, the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party won.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: PARTY OF THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION (93%); INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTY OF THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION (93%); INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO CITY (MEXICO); BAJA CALIFORNIA (MEXICO); MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); RESORTS (72%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA JOHN MAJOR (74%); LEONEL COTA MONTANO (68%); RUBEN FIGUEROA ALCOCER (58%); LOPEZ OBRADOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



211 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 9, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: Takeovers Are Part of the Game;
Any Hot Toy Can Grow Up to Be a Unit of Mattel or Hasbro

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
When a hot toy hits the market, frantic parents rush to buy it while it is still on the shelf. Toy makers, it seems, are adopting a similar shopping strategy.
Ever on the lookout for top-selling toys to add to their mix, industry giants like Mattel and Hasbro are increasingly looking not so much to their own workshops but to their smaller rivals. If they did not come up with the latest plaything to catch the eye of those fickle 4-year-olds, they simply buy the company that did. 
 "Our industry thrives on new products, and where that comes from is not necessarily always going to be from the big companies," said David Miller, president of the Toy Manufacturers of America, the trade group that this week is putting on the 96th annual American International Toy Fair in New York.
For instance, Mattel, maker of Barbie and Hot Wheels, will soon be the biggest producer of consumer software behind Microsoft, but it is paying $3.8 billion to do so by acquiring the Learning Company. And Hasbro, known for G.I. Joe dolls and Tonka trucks, won the latest toy war with Furby, but only after it bought Furby's maker, Tiger Electronics, last year for $335 million.
"If there is something out there that we think can add to our brand portfolio," said Wayne Charness, a spokesman for Hasbro, "we do everything we can to go get it."
In the fiercely competitive and cyclical toy business, manufacturers and retailers have long struggled with how to achieve the consistent revenues and earnings growth that investors demand. By buying rivals, they hope to minimize the risk of wild earnings swings from new toys that fizzle fast or classics that lose their luster. And snapping up a competitor's expertise or best-selling brands enables manufacturers to respond more rapidly to ever-evolving consumer demands.
That is just what has happened with electronic games and multimedia software, which have become increasingly important to the industry. While the overall industry had essentially flat results last year, with $15.2 billion in wholesale shipments to retailers, the total market for video game software grew a third, to $2.8 billion, while the market for electronic games grew 20 percent, to $456 million, according to the toy industry group.
Seeking to achieve such gains with a wider array of educational and interactive toys, Hasbro and Mattel have been trolling for companies that would give them more of an edge. Last year, Hasbro bought Microprose Inc., Tiger Electronics and the Atari video game division of the JTS Corporation. Mattel, not to be outdone, followed with the largest deal in the industry in recent years by announcing that it would acquire the Learning Company. The deal is expected to close by the end of April.
"Mattel recognizes enormous opportunity in Learning Company's relationships with schools and hot specialty stores like Zany Brainy," said Eric Johnson, a professor at Vanderbilt University's Owen Graduate School of Management. Zany Brainy is a fast-growing specialty retailer that sells, among other things, multimedia educational products.
In addition to gaining even greater visibility at such specialty toy sellers, "Mattel can now leverage its distribution and brands to grow the Learning Company's products, while integrating education and multimedia into its own line of toys and games," Mr. Johnson said.
Consumers are likely to benefit, too. For one thing, toys that once required jaunts to specialty stores will now be more widely available at places like Kmart and Toys "R" Us. And economies of scale usually generated from these transactions often produce cost savings for the manufacturers that in theory could mean cheaper prices at the checkout lane.
Money managers and analysts said they expected the consolidation to continue as toy makers looked to diversify not just through international expansion and internal creativity but also through shopping sprees that combined the creative talents of smaller, niche operators with the huge distribution and other resources of the industry giants.
"Historically this has been a very fragmented industry," said Timothy Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation, which owned 190,000 shares of Mattel last year but has since sold its stake. "There is ease of entry, and it is driven by the creative types. Along with all of corporate America, the toy industry is beginning to benefit from consolidation and the benefits of size, especially with the retail channel consolidating into a couple of very strong hands."
Indeed, without the marketing resources and the influence to secure coveted shelf space at Wal-Mart and Toys "R" Us, one-hit wonders risk being shut out of the game no matter how hot their products may be. And for larger manufacturers, paying for new talent is often more cost effective than waiting for the next Cabbage Patch Kids doll to come from within.
"It's good for the acquired company because they often get a good price and they lower the risk of having a one-shot item," Mr. Ghriskey said. "And it's good for the acquirer because they can fold it right into their existing structure, with few if any additional costs other than the purchase price."
That is the thinking behind a string of mergers the last two years. Besides the Learning Company and Tiger Electronics, other transactions include Radica Games Ltd.'s acquisition last year of Kid Active and the merger in 1997 of Leapfrog and Knowledge Kids Enterprises, a unit of Knowledge Universe L.L.C.
The acquisition by Radica gave the manufacturer of hand-held casino theme games the Girl Tech line of electronic products for girls. Radica also got Kid Active's Girl Tech Web site, which broadened the company's marketing capabilities because it can now promote directly to youngsters who visit the site. And the Leapfrog transaction combined Knowledge Kids' financial resources with Leapfrog's award-winning educational products, like Word Wizard, an interactive system that teaches word recognition and reading comprehension.
To be sure, there are still plenty of independent niche companies left, like Ty Inc., maker of the wildly popular Beanie Babies; Jakks Pacific Inc., manufacturer of WWF Action Figures, and Wild Planet Toys, maker of electronic gear and spy toys. But for many others, giving up some autonomy is a small price for the potential these deals provide to make the most of their products.
In fact, Roger Shiffman, Tiger's president, said that had it not been for the sale of his company to Hasbro last year, Tiger would have been unable to capitalize fully on Furby's potential. Tiger obtained the rights to Furby from the inventor in October 1997 and rushed to get a rough prototype ready for last year's toy fair. Retailers' interest was greater than the company expected, and Tiger soon found itself trying to fill orders in eight months for a million Furbys, which would typically take about two years.
Tiger supplied the concept for Furby, and Hasbro provided the computerized drafting, mechanics, working samples and ultimately the production operations to create the finished product. "They made things happen faster for us and helped us get the product out because of how late we were," Mr. Shiffman said. The Furby frenzy reflects just how these deals are designed to work -- teaming up an entrepreneurial company's risk-taking with a large company's might to push the toy into the marketplace.
Beyond Furby, "We are going to benefit from their international sales, and that is an area in which we were underperforming.," said Mr. Shiffman, who now runs Tiger for Hasbro. And, he said, Hasbro's marketing resources and licensing agreements gave Tiger the ability to create products tied to properties it would otherwise not have access to, like Barney and toys tied to the new Star Wars movie coming out in May.
Mattel, too, has made several recent acquisitions that it says have increased its competitiveness. In its case, Mattel was looking for companies with established brands that also provided strategic benefits. "We've both benefited from the competencies we are seeking and acquired related brands," said Glenn Bozarth, a spokesman for Mattel.
Through its purchase of Tyco Inc. in 1996, for example, Mattel snagged the Fisher-Price line, which is popular with preschoolers. The line includes Blue's Clues and Sesame Street plush products as well as classics like Magna-Doodle and View-Master. Then the purchase last year of the Pleasant Company gave it the the popular American Girl dolls, plus some strategic advantages.
While Barbie is popular with girls between about 3 and 8, the American Girl line expands the age spectrum to girls in their early teens. And the American Girl line is sold primarily through catalogues, allowing Mattel to use the Pleasant Company's expertise in direct-to-consumer distribution to sell its other brands. If successful, the approach would enable the company to be less dependent on key retailers, an increasingly important factor for toy makers, whose business suffered mightily last year when Toys "R" Us slashed its orders to cut costs.
Indeed, Mattel's recent disappointing financial performance, including a 69 percent earnings decline in the fourth quarter of 1998, highlights the need for toy makers to further consolidate in an attempt to reduce their dependence on few powerful retailers as well as the whims of often finicky consumers.
"Toys are an inherently risky business," said Mr. Johnson of Vanderbilt. "The only way to insure stable earnings growth and the kinds of things the Wall Street guys look for in a consumer product company is through acquisition -- to buy successful products and brands to keep diversifying all that massive risk they face."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Tuesday with an article about toy company acquisitions misidentified the 1989 buyer of Coleco's main product lines, which included the Cabbage Patch Kids. It was Hasbro, not Mattel. The caption also misstated the amount Hasbro paid in August 1998 for Microprose, a software game maker. It was $70 million, not $700 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Igor Vishyakov)
 
Chart: "Shopping for Advantage"
To achieve more consistent financial results in a notoriously fickle business, the nation's toy giants are increasingly obtaining new products by buying the companies that come up the with original ideas. While there have been a rash of recent deals, one of the earliest examples was Mattel's purchase of Coleco's assets in 1989 to gain the Cabbage Patch Kids dolls.
 
HASBRO
 
MICROPROSE -- Added software games to the roster; acquired August 1998 for $700 million.
GALOOB -- Maker of Star Wars products and Micro Machines; acquired September 1998 for $220 million.
TIGER ELECTRONICS -- Maker of the Furby; broadened its range of electronics products; acquired February 1998 for $335 million.
ODDZON and CAP TOYS -- Makers of Koosh balls and interactive toy candy, expanded candy-related products; both acquired February 1997 for $166 million.
ATARI -- Electronic games; acquired March 1998 for $5 million.
 
MATTEL
 
LEARNING COMPANY -- The leader in children's software, maker of Reader Rabbit, will strengthen its interactive division; $3.8 billion acquisition pending.
PLEASANT COMPANY -- Maker of American Girl dolls, added expertise in direct-to-consumer marketing; acquired last year for $700 million.
TYCO -- Maker of Matchbox cars and View-Master, increased its brands for preschool children; acquired Nov. 1996 for $755 million.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (95%); MAT (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MATTEL INC; HASBRO INC HASBRO INC (95%); MATTEL INC (95%); MICROPROSE INC (61%); JTS CORP (61%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); TOY INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); TOY INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATTEL INC; HASBRO INC TOY INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); TOY INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; SALES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) TOYS & GAMES (95%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (92%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); SHIPMENTS (68%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (67%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999



212 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO RETREATS. The single currency fell on concern that strikes in Germany might worsen an economic slowdown already hurting many of the 11 nations in the currency union. The euro fell to $1.1293 from $1.1318.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January 4th. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



213 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

ASIA
 
INDIA: STATE LEADER QUITS -- The Chief Minister of Orissa State has submitted a letter of resignation, grudgingly taking "moral responsibility" for a recent spate of violence, including the killing of an Australian missionary and his two sons by Hindu militants. The Minister, Jayanti Ballabh Patnaik, gave the letter to his Congress Party leader, Sonia Gandhi. Barry Bearak (NYT) 

THAILAND: AIDS VACCINE TO BE TESTED -- The first large-scale testing of an experimental AIDS vaccine in a developing country will begin soon in Thailand. The trial will involve 2,500 intravenous drugs users, mostly men, in Bangkok. Large-scale testing of the vaccine began in the United States last June. (NYT)
 
 MYANMAR: U.S. SHUNS HEROIN MEETING -- The United States will not attend a global conference on the heroin trade sponsored by Interpol because the organizers chose to hold it in Myanmar, Clinton Administration officials said. Myanmar's record of human-rights violations "made it impossible for any U.S. official to attend," according to a State Department official, Frank Loy. Myanmar is regarded as the world's leading producer of heroin, officials said. Tim Weiner (NYT)
 
CHINA: MACEDONIA RELATIONS CUT -- China suspended diplomatic ties with Macedonia after the Macedonians confirmed that they would establish relations with Taiwan, the official New China News Agency reported. China said Macedonia had violated accords between the two countries recognizing China's sovereignty over Taiwan. (Agence France-Presse)
 
TAIWAN: HIJACKERS HANDED BACK -- Taiwan handed over five paroled Chinese hijackers to the mainland in a gesture intended to ease tensions with Beijing in advance of a planned meeting with a high Chinese official in Taiwan that is expected by April. (Reuters)
 
CAMBODIA: NEW PACTS WITH CHINA -- Prime Minister Hun Sen signed five agreements in Beijing increasing political and economic ties with China, but both sides ruled out talks on a trial for members of the Khmer Rouge, the last remnants of which joined the Cambodian Army in a ceremony in Anlong Veng. (Reuters, AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL QUITS -- Intelligence Minister Qorbanali Dorri-Najafabadi resigned four weeks after his ministry admitted that its agents were involved in a spate of killings of writers and dissidents. The disclosure intensified the rivalry between hard-line and moderate factions in the Government. Ali Yunesi, the chief military prosecutor, will replace Mr. Dorri-Najafabadi, according to two newspapers with ties to the Government. (AP)
 
ISRAEL: SHARON'S STAR WANES -- In primaries within the conservative Likud Party, Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon, left, who was vying for the second spot on the ticket for May elections, finished in eighth place. After the defection of key Likud members to the new Center Party and elsewhere, several lesser-known Cabinet ministers saw their stars rise, particularly Science Minister Silvan Shalom, now Likud's No. 2. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
LIBYA: U.N. APPROVES MECCA FLIGHTS -- The United Nations approved flights for Libyans to travel to Saudi Arabia for the annual pilgrimage to the Muslim holy sites of Mecca and Medina. Air travel in or out of Libya has been banned since 1992 in an effort to force it to turn over two suspects in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: TALKS IN U.S. ON DRUGS -- Interior Minister Francisco Labastida Ochoa is visiting Washington to discuss drug policies this week with Attorney General Janet Reno, Louis J. Freeh, the Director of the F.B.I., and other officials. Mexican political experts said Mr. Labastida appears to have the backing of President Ernesto Zedillo for the presidential nomination of their governing Institutional Revolutionary Party. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: COHEN ON MILITARY TIES -- William S. Cohen, making the first visit to South Africa by a United States Defense Secretary, said the Clinton Administration wanted to build closer military ties with South Africa but saw little chance for rapid progress. In three days of talks, Mr. Cohen will discuss United States initiatives for peacekeeper training and an African Center for Security Studies, which Washington hopes will professionalize the region's armies. (AP)
 
ZIMBABWE: CRACKDOWN ON PRESS -- Condemnation of a crackdown on the press mounted as the editor of The Mirror, Ibbo Mandaza, and a reporter, Grace Kwinjeh, left, were ordered to appear for trial on charges that they published false information. But in a sign that the Government may be taking a step back, the two were freed on bail and charges against two other journalists were dropped. The arrests follow the detention and apparent torture by the army last month of two journalists from The Standard. (AP)
 
EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: ARMS SALES DENOUNCED -- A parliamentary committee delivered a scathing criticism of the Foreign Office for failing to inform Cabinet ministers that a British company had breached a United Nations embargo against selling arms to Sierra Leone, where rebels are fighting pro-Government forces. The committee said the department's top civil servant, Sir John Kerr, "failed in his duty," but Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sir John would not be forced to resign. Sarah Lyall (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: HOPES ON DISARMAMENT -- Protestant and Roman Catholic leaders said the head of the disarmament commission, a former Canadian general, John de Chastelain, was working on a compromise in the dispute over the disarming of the Irish Republican Army and other paramilitary groups. The dispute threatens to delay restoration of home rule power to the Assembly in Belfast by the British Government, which is scheduled for March 10. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
ARMENIA: TOP AIDE SLAIN -- A senior Government official in charge of security was shot dead outside the capital city, Yerevan. The official, Gen. Artsroun Markarian, a Deputy Interior Minister, was apparently abducted on his way to work. Stephen Kinzer (NYT)
 Compiled by Terence Neilan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); MYANMAR (94%); TAIWAN (94%); THAILAND (93%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); ORISSA, INDIA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); MYANMAR (94%); TAIWAN (94%); THAILAND (93%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); ORISSA, INDIA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEROIN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (77%); VACCINES (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (76%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); GENOCIDE (75%); MILITARY COURTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); MILITARY OFFENSES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); PAROLE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); WRITERS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



214 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Luring High Technology Downtown

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems recently signed a 10-year lease for 89,152 square feet of office space in the World Trade Center. Theglobe.com, an on-line discussion and shopping company, signed up for 47,000 square feet at 120 Broadway on a 15-year lease. And Platinum Technologies, a software publisher, took the top two floors at 140 Broadway, a total of 47,000 square feet.
As these transactions suggest, technology-based companies are moving into the bottom tip of Manhattan, an area of the city once better know for high finance than high tech. Building owners, their representatives and brokers are promoting the area as one that already has a thriving community of new media and computer-based companies and is receptive to new entries. 
 The local business improvement district, the Alliance for Downtown New York, is actively using technology, including an interactive Web site (www.DowntownNY.net), to communicate with companies already in the area and to attract new ones. It has formed a unit, called Information Technology District, to provide business development seminars and other services tailored to young, rapidly growing companies.
Alliance officials say that more than 600 information technology companies, from Web page developers to businesses offering computer-based financial and statistical analyses, are in the area below Chambers Street.
Being near similar businesses is important for technology companies, said Lewis J. Cowan, a leasing agent for Silverstein Properties who helped move Theglobe.com into 120 Broadway. "They were not particularly interested in downtown and they were skeptical when I showed them the space," he said. "Their first question was, 'Who else is down here?' "
The answer was in a booklet published by the alliance last year that listed all the technology-based companies the group could find. It also put the information on its Web site.
Like other business improvement districts, the alliance sweeps sidewalks and provides security service, but it is the only one to concentrate on attracting a certain type of company and to use technology to do so, said Sharon Greenberger, the group's vice president for economic development.
"Companies are attracted to a community of software and technology firms," Ms. Greenberger said. "They want to be close to the lenders and they want to be close to each other. That is what we have here, a community in a confined geographic area."
To help bind that group together, the alliance has been working to complete the Community Extranet, a service on its Web site, that will help companies exchange ideas and announce new jobs and internships. Users will also be able to copy software for testing before deciding which package to buy, participate in discussions about products and places and get listings of coming events and exhibitions. The site now lists high technology companies in the district, including telephone numbers, Web links and E-mail links.
The alliance also sponsors free seminars for entrepreneurs on tax and intellectual property issues and raising capital. "The seminars are co-sponsored by the New York New Media Association," Ms. Greenberger said. "They are free, to encourage people to attend. It's important that they see us as a service vehicle and a friend."
Just about everyone agrees that the heart of what boosters like to call Silicon Alley is at 55 Broad Street, an old financial building that was rewired and converted into the Information Technology Center. Virtually empty when the conversion began in 1995, 55 Broad now is "full with a waiting list," said William C. Rudin, the president of the Rudin Management Company, which operates the 410,000-square-foot building.
He said that high technology companies fed on the creative energy of one another and that being in proximity promoted growth. And he said that although Sun was moving its regional corporate offices to the Trade Center, the Sun specialists who are developing new uses for Sun's programming language would remain at 55 Broad "because of the creative environment."
With assistance from the city's Economic Development Corporation, the alliance also operates the Plug 'n' Go program, which makes Internet-wired space available to start-up companies at a below-market rental rate. Now entering its third year, the Plug 'n' Go program includes six buildings; to participate, a building must have at least 20,000 square feet available to rent at $19 a square foot for the first year.
Alliance officials say 14,000 square feet of space has already been rented under Plug 'n' Go since the beginning of the year.
"Downtown is a natural location for many of these information technology companies because they are providing services to the big financial companies," said Cherrie Nanninga, the director of real estate for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the World Trade Center. Since the beginning of the year, Baseline Financial Services and Smart World Technologies have signed leases in the center.
Baseline, which provides portfolio managers with visual analysis of the performance and prospects for stocks, will occupy 58,902 square feet. Smart World, which provides Internet access and helps advertisers find individual on-line sales prospects, will occupy 9,324 square feet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (59%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (59%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (59%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (59%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (59%); THEGLOBE.COM INC (58%); ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); WEB SITES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



215 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Air Force Turns to Ads After Drop in Recruiting

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Faced with an unusual drop-off in new recruits, the Air Force plans for the first time to join the other armed services and pay for national television advertisements to try to persuade young men and women to sign up.
Until now, the Air Force has not had to rely on paid advertisements as part of its recruiting campaigns, since it was able to attract a steady stream of recruits simply with the promise of technical training and experience in aviation. 
 But the Air Force has now been hit by the same crisis in recruiting that has hampered the other services in recent months. From October to January, the service fell 6.5 percent, or 696 enlistees, short of its goal of 10,901. If the trend is not reversed, officials said today, the Air Force could miss its annual recruiting goal for the first time since 1979.
That the Air Force would fall short of new recruits underscores the depth of the problems facing the military as a whole at a time when a booming economy has created plenty of jobs and young people are less willing to join the armed services.
Brig. Gen. Peter U. Sutton, the commander of the Air Force's recruiting division at Randolph Air Force Base in Texas, said in a telephone interview today that the service needed to increase its recognition among young people. General Sutton attributed a waning interest in service to the growing number of young people who go straight into college after high school and the dwindling number of veterans, the fathers and other role models who often inspire young people to choose a stint in the military.
"We're just less visible to young people today than we were in the past," the general said.
The Air Force plans to spend $17 million immediately to buy national advertising time, beginning on Feb. 27 and continuing through CBS's coverage of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's basketball tournament. It then plans to spend $37 million to begin a new network advertising campaign in the fall.
The television advertisements will sharply increase the service's overall advertising budget this year, to $76 million, from $22 million.
The Air Force has produced television advertisements that stations around the country broadcast as public-service announcements, as well as local and national print advertisements. But officials said the public-service television advertisements ran haphazardly and were not necessarily intended for young men and women.
The advertising campaign is mostly intended to increase the enlisted ranks, but a secondary effect, the officials said, was to enhance the Air Force's image. General Sutton noted that in recent years the public recognition of the Air Force's slogan -- "Aim High" -- had fallen off.
All of the services have faced difficulties with recruiting and retention. The Army's recruiting problem appears even more dire. From October to January, the Army fell 2,479 enlistees, or 13 percent, short of its recruiting goal of 19,020, despite a flurry of advertisements and bonuses.
The Navy, on the other hand, exceeded its recruiting goal during the same period after falling short last year for the first time since the draft ended. The Marine Corps also met its recruiting goals.
The Pentagon hopes that an across-the-board raise, as well as specific, or targeted, increases for mid-career officers and noncommissioned officers and improvements in pension benefits, will convince more people to join the military and reverse the flood of those getting out.
President Clinton has proposed a 4.4 percent increase, with targeted raises of up to 9.9 percent. Republicans in Congress have proposed even more, with raises of 4.8 percent across the board and 10.3 percent in the targeted ranks.
In addition to the advertisements, the Air Force intends to hire 270 more recruiters, increasing the total to about 1,200. Last fall, the service, following the Army and the Navy, began offering new enlistment bonuses of $1,000 to $9,000, depending on the specialty and length of commitment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RANDOLPH AIR FORCE (96%); US AIR FORCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (93%); AIR FORCES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); ARMIES (78%); MEN (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); BUDGETS (72%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); BASKETBALL (50%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



216 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Faded Glory on the Gold Coast;
Glen Cove, Relic of the Gilded Age, Plans a Comeback

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: GLEN COVE, N.Y., Feb. 9

 BODY:
The year began here much the way last year did: with the wind whistling through downtown streets empty except for groups of shabby men walking aimlessly about with little more in their pockets than their fists.
Across from City Hall, Stan Eisenstadt, 75, and his son Bob, 47, waited for customers in their hardware store. Everything was marked down 50 percent, but still nobody came. After four decades in the business and facing a bleak future, the Eisenstadts have sold their corner lot to a developer and plan to close this month. 
 Up the hill, among the duck ponds and the naked sycamores, Paul G. Pennoyer, 78, a grandson of J. Pierpont Morgan, listened as the earth movers felled trees to make way for the new houses being built across the glade, a place where his family once held fox hunts and shooting competitions.
"It makes me sad to see what's happening in Glen Cove," Mr. Pennoyer said. "But I'm not weeping over it. I can't stop it."
Originally the exclusive province of wealthy industrialists and robber barons, Glen Cove was and still is considered the capital of the Gold Coast, a place where the rich spent their summers before anyone had heard of the Hamptons. Morgan built his estate here. So did the oil barons Charles Pratt and Stephen V. Harkness. F. W. Woolworth built his palace next to theirs.
But the butlers and the lavish parties are memories. Some estates were torn down to make way for glorified subdivisions, and those that remain are now museums, conference halls and university buildings. With the opulence gone, few tourists visit this enclave on Hempstead Harbor. Downtown is half empty, and one of the most conspicuous features on the streets are the clusters of Central American laborers waiting for work.
Glen Cove is in the midst of its post-suburban life. Its population of 25,000 has become a gumbo of the rich, the middle class, the poor and the downright poor. With impoverished immigrants knocking at its door and the small businessman walking out of it, old-timers here wonder whether the golden luster of Glen Cove can ever be reclaimed.
The Mayor and city elders are optimistic about its renewal, with some justification. They have their flip charts and waterfront-development proposals, and boast about the new government buildings downtown. But that they are talking about urban revitalization in one of America's original suburbs shows just how far the city has spilled into Nassau County.
"It's become a strange place, more like New York City than Nassau County," said Roger Wunderlich, a professor of Long Island history at the State University at Stony Brook. "It went from rural to exclusive to mainstream to a time now where the mom and pop mainstream are having trouble surviving.
"You have welfare people living near the very rich. You have housing issues and elderly people and homelessness. There is a large minority population and the city seems unwilling or unable to come to grips with its real social problems," Professor Wunderlich said.
Even the Mayor, Thomas R. Suozzi, a man who is rabid about Glen Cove's image, concedes the point. "It's true, we are a suburban town with city problems," he said.
But Mayor Suozzi has a vision for his city and eagerly heralds his accomplishments since taking office five years ago. There is the new City Hall-police station-courthouse complex. He closed down the incinerator. A software designer has set up operations in Glen Cove, and a shabby patch of land that sat barren for 20 years in the middle of downtown has recently been sold to a developer.
His most ambitious plan is a $250 million renewal of the waterfront, transforming it from a hazardous waste site into a seaport and marina to rival those in New York City, Connecticut and Rhode Island.
"This is the Gold Coast, and we want to capitalize on that," he said, dirtying his polished shoes in waterfront mud. "Imagine hundreds of people docked here, eating oysters in the restaurants, listening to music on the waterfront."
Yet the waterfront is miles away from a major highway, and little has been done on the project, his critics contend, calling it a thin sheet masking Glen Cove's more serious needs. They laugh at the Regina Maris, the 90-year-old barkentine that was thought to have helped rescue Danish Jews during World War II.
Last summer, the Mayor welcomed her to the city as a symbol of his efforts to revitalize the waterfront. But last week, officials announced that the vessel may have hauled rocks during the war, but never refugees. She now rests in the mud of Hempstead Harbor, taking on water, drawing more titters than tourists.
"We get a lot of fluff but little substance," said John Maccarone, a city councilman. "The point here is the small businessman is leaving downtown and little is being done to help him now."
The decay of the village center is a problem that plagues much of Long Island, said Dr. Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Unable to compete with the super malls and strip developments along nearby highways, small shops are packing it in. And though some bigger businesses have come to Glen Cove, the city has few answers on how to help its independent businesses. "It's a slide that started 30 years ago, and I'm not sure that we have bottomed out," Dr. Koppelman said.
To resuscitate themselves, small villages developed attractions to draw people. Port Jefferson's waterfront and harbor face lift has been successful. Bay Shore is planning an aquarium.
Yet Glen Cove already has the attractions: the waterfront, three public beaches, a yacht club, parks and, of course, the mansions; like Woolworth's Winfield, where the grand marble staircase cost $2 million to build in 1916.
Until Mr. Suozzi came along, no one thought to stitch it all together and invite the outside public. Instead the waterfront rotted away, and many mansions fell to the ground.
One was Mr. Pennoyer's boyhood home, one of several estates that Morgan built for his children. The other morning, Mr. Pennoyer sat in front of his stone hearth, offering recollections of his grandfather's mansion at the tip of the peninsula, where the surrounding waters provided an anchorage for Morgan's black yacht, Corsair. Besides marble and caviar, his grandfather imported Italians to do his labor and tend to his and his children's estates.
"My father said when Glen Cove was incorporated into a city back in the 20's, city problems would follow," Mr. Pennoyer said.
Mr. Pennoyer now lives with his wife in the former horse stable of his parents' 100-acre estate. Just 15 acres remain in the family now, and houses are going up all around them. Some men in tattered clothes sleep in their woods.
"The only immigrants there used to be here were the people who worked in the houses," he said. "They came in old jalopies. Now there are just too many of them. There is crowding in the streets, in the houses, people sleeping in the woods. I have sympathy, but we need to stem the inflow."
In the south of Glen Cove is a neighborhood known as the Orchard, once the Italian enclave, now rapidly becoming a ghetto of overcrowded houses occupied by young men from Central America. There are hundreds here now, and hundreds more come during summer to mow the lawns and rake the leaves of Glen Cove's wealthy residents.
Some of them live 16 to a house; others sleep in the elements. One man froze to death a few years ago.
The city is unwilling to build a shelter for the homeless, because, the feeling is, if you build it more will come.
"People here are concerned with real estate values, not homeless shelters," said the Rev. Patricia B. Mitchell, who retired as the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in January. "It is true that if you build shelters, others will be attracted to them. That's why we have shelters for animals and not for people in Glen Cove. That doesn't mean there isn't a need for one."
The Mayor and the City Council say that they can appreciate the struggle of the day laborers, and that some services are provided, within reason.
"Basically, they are here illegally, and we do what we can for them," Mr. Suozzi said. "But a homeless shelter is permanent substandard housing and is not an answer."
"Besides, there are a lot of other people in this town. There are legal citizens that I have to worry about, too."
On School Street downtown, Stan Eisenstadt spent the afternoon drooping over his cash register. Next to him is a picture of the Navy frigate he served on 55 years ago. He is too depressed to say much.
His son Bob, who is overseeing the hardware store liquidation, spoke for him.
"My dad spent his whole life building this hardware store, and it hurts him to close the book."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the North Shore, downtown Glen Cove has more "for sale or lease" signs than pedestrians these days. Paul G. Pennoyer, J. P. Morgan's grandson, said, "It makes me sad to see what's happening." (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Stan Eisenstadt, 75, and his son Bob, 47, waiting for customers at a liquidation sale in their hardware store. After four decades, the Eisenstadts have sold the Glen Cove store's corner lot and plan to close this month. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Map of New York showing location of Glen Cove: Glen Cove was the province of rich industrialists and robber barons. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: F W WOOLWORTH CO GMBH (54%); F W WOOLWORTH & CO LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); MAYORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); SUBURBS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HISTORY (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); 

PERSON: GLEN COVE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



217 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Set Fast Pace In Late 1998

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The nation's productivity, the amount that a worker produces in an hour on the job, rose in the fourth quarter at an annual rate of 3.7 percent, giving the United States three years of robust improvement in labor efficiency, and suggesting that corporate America might indeed have become slightly more efficient after years of trying unsuccessfully to improve.
The newest quarterly number, announced yesterday by the Labor Department, is the biggest increase since the first quarter of 1996, when labor productivity rose by 4.2 percent, inaugurating the three-year period of hefty gains. 
 Some economists say that computers are finally producing their promised efficiencies. But most experts say that strong demand in a prosperous economy has forced companies to squeeze more production from their workers, often by running equipment at full capacity.
Chance also plays a role. Productivity is really the dollar value of all merchandise and services produced, divided by the number of worker hours needed to produce it. The dollar value is adjusted for inflation, and since 1995 changes made by the Labor Department to render the Consumer Price Index more accurate have automatically increased the dollar value of merchandise and services, thus helping to raise the productivity rate.
Whatever the reasons for the improvement, the latest productivity numbers are still a far cry from documenting the arrival of an era reminiscent of the 1950's and 1960's, when rapid economic expansion, rising wages and low unemployment co-existed with low inflation. All those characteristics also coexist today. But temporary factors apparently explain them, and not the "structural" changes arising from computer technology.
"It is not clear whether we are experiencing a long-lasting structural improvement," said Edwin Dean, chief of productivity data at the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, "or simply an increase in productivity that could disappear when the economy slows down."
Yogi Berra's baseball aphorism, in effect, applies to productivity, said Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist: The game is not over until it is over. In productivity's case, the final score -- the rate of improvement -- cannot be calculated until a business cycle ends. So far productivity has improved at an average annual rate of 1.4 percent since July 1990, the start of the current business cycle. This compares with an annual increase of 1.1 percent for the entire 1980's cycle.
This not-yet-final improvement of three-tenths of a percentage point from one decade to the next is not to be scoffed at. "It would produce a significant improvement in American lives if it endures for quite a few more years," said Jeffrey Madrick, a journalist and economist who is writing a book on productivity, "but even then it would not be a return to any kind of golden age."
The productivity number, issued quarterly and covering all business except agriculture, is arguably the nation's most important economic statistic. Only when productivity rises, can incomes and living standards rise for most Americans.
The reason is that productivity measures a worker's success at generating income. A long-distance telephone operator, for example, finds that she can handle 100 calls an hour, up from 97 calls, because the phone company has given her better equipment or extra training. Her productivity has risen by 3 percent. The extra revenue that she now generates in each hour of work can be used by the company to fatten profits or raise wages, or both. Most important, this improvement can take place without increasing telephone rates. A raise in pay, in effect, is not dissipated in higher prices.
Such improvements were commonplace from 1959 to 1973, a golden era. Productivity for all nonfarm business rose at a 2.9 percent annual rate, but then slumped to 1.1 percent from 1973 until 1990. The reasons have never been fully understood.
With yesterday's fourth-quarter announcement -- and a downward adjustment in the third-quarter number to 2.5 percent from 3 percent -- labor productivity for all of 1998 rose 2.2 percent. Manufacturing led, with a fourth-quarter increase of 5.6 percent and for the year as a whole, a 4.3 percent rise.
For the three years starting in 1996, productivity rose at an average annual rate of 1.9 percent. But while the last three years were strong, the 1980's produced an even stronger three-year burst: productivity rose at a 2.3 percent annual rate from 1983 through 1985.
What characterizes the two periods is robust economic growth -- a rapid rise in the output of merchandise and services -- and a scramble by employers to meet the demand without adding labor. Even so, new jobs have been created at a record pace.
"The believer in the productivity miracle," said Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs, "has to explain why it has taken so much additional labor to produce the additional output."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses since 1994. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C6)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRODUCTIVITY (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); BASEBALL (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



218 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
A Little Economic Advice For the Federal Reserve

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is looking for a few good ideas on what to do about short-term interest rates.
In a contest organized by nine Federal Reserve banks, high school teams will compete at regional finals beginning in March; nine winners will present their policy prescriptions in Washington on May 3 and 4 to members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which adjusts interest rates as the need arises.
The students are asked to "in effect forecast where they think the economy is going over the next several months," said Steven Malin, assistant vice president for public information at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
 Citibank is contributing $650,000 in cash and scholarships. The information number for the contest is (877) 333-2454.
No, Alan Greenspan will not be a judge.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (71%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



219 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P.'s Moderates Test Power in House With New Tax Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Casting doubt on the viability of one of their party's main goals this year, a group of moderate House Republicans plans to reject calls for a sweeping income tax reduction and instead is building support for a more modest package of tax cuts, Congressional aides said today.
The group of 11, led by Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut, will introduce a plan on Wednesday to scale back the so-called marriage penalty paid by many two-income couples; raise the amount of income retirees can earn without losing Social Security benefits and enact other changes expected to cut taxes by $100 billion over five years. 
 The plan is intended as an alternative to one being developed by Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, the House Budget Committee chairman, that would cut income tax rates over all by 10 percent. Democrats are attacking that proposal as a giveaway to the rich. If fully enacted at once, the cut would reduce revenues by about $375 billion over five years.
The moderate plan, seen as benefiting the middle class, is the first effort by Republican moderates to flex their muscle in the House this year. The party's majority after last November's elections has shrunk to such a narrow margin that passing legislation seems likely to prove a constant challenge. Republicans hold 222 seats and the Democrats 211. One independent Congressman votes regularly with the Democrats and there is one empty seat.
The parliamentary math means that the defection of as few as five Republicans can block the passage of legislation.
Republican leaders in both the House and Senate have been trying to rally the party around an income tax reduction as the centerpiece of their post-impeachment agenda.
Saying a big tax cut would be both good politics and good policy as their party struggles to define what it stands for other than condemning President Clinton, Republican leaders have been spoiling for a partisan fight over the issue.
Republicans say they want to return a big portion of Federal budget surpluses to taxpayers in coming years to energize the economy and check the growth of the Government.
But Mr. Clinton has argued that a big tax cut would imperil efforts to strengthen Social Security and Medicare and deal with mounting pressure for more spending on military and domestic programs.
But as the emerging proposals on taxes by moderates makes clear, Republicans also have to worry about holding together their fractious ranks. Efforts to pass a tax bill last year foundered on disputes between House and Senate Republicans.
At a retreat in Williamsburg, Va., last weekend, many House Republicans expressed reservations about pressing ahead with the across-the-board income tax cut.
From the right, social conservatives have been suggesting that Republicans should concentrate this year on substantially reducing or eliminating the marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code under which many two-income couples pay more in taxes than they would if single.
Repealing the marriage tax, said Janet Parshall of the Family Research Council, which is influential with many conservatives in the House, "should be the backbone of any tax bill passed in this Congress."
Republican moderates said Mr. Clinton's success in portraying tax cuts as the enemy of efforts to insure Social Security's future makes it politically suicidal to press ahead with a sweeping plan to cut income tax rates.
Many of the moderates are from districts where they are vulnerable to challenges from Democrats, and they are eager to avoid the label of a do-nothing partisan Congress unable to address the concerns of the voters. So they are pushing for legislation that has a reasonable chance of being enacted into law.
The maneuvering within the party is likely to intensify in coming weeks as Mr. Kasich, a likely Presidential candidate, decides how to lay out a budget framework for next year. The same process is under way in the Senate, where Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee, is working on a plan to cut income tax rates by as much as 15 percent, but to phase in the reductions slowly over the next decade.
"You'll see over the next five weeks a variety of opinions expressed over what size tax cuts we should have, but all Republicans agree we should have tax cuts," said a senior House Republican aide. "The test for Republicans is to bridge those differences and emerge with a common decision we can unite around. To do it with a landslide five-vote majority will not be easy."
House Republicans who have agreed to co-sponsor Ms. Johnson's tax plan include Representatives Charles Bass of New Hampshire, Sherwood L. Boehlert of New York, Vernon J. Ehlers of Michigan, Wayne T. Gilchrest of Maryland, James C. Greenwood of Pennsylvania, Steve Horn of California, Rick A. Lazio of New York, Jim Leach of Iowa, Frank A. LoBiondo of New Jersey and Fred Upton of Michigan.
The plan is close to the tax-cut bill passed last year by the House. It calls for addressing the marriage penalty by increasing the standard deduction for spouses filing jointly to twice the deduction for individuals, or $8,500; currently, the deduction for joint filers is $7,100. The effect would be to reduce taxable income by $1,400 for couples filing jointly and, claiming the standard deduction, a change that would save $392 for a couple paying a 28 percent marginal income tax rate.
The proposal would also accelerate a planned increase in the income limit, above which Social Security recipients begin losing benefits. The limit is scheduled to increase to $30,000 in 2002, from $15,500. Under Ms. Johnson's plan the increase would take effect next year.
The plan would also speed up an expected increase in the portion of health insurance premiums that self-employed people could deduct from their taxes. It would contain tax breaks for long-term health care costs, exclude tax credits for families with children and for college expenses from the effects of the alternative minimum tax, and extend a number of expiring tax credits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEW MEXICO REPUBLICAN (55%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (76%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (76%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); POLITICS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); MEDICARE (61%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN KASICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



220 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Patients Lament Imminent Loss of Their Friendly Family Doctors

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J., Feb. 9

 BODY:
The parking lot was full at the H.I.P. health clinic here on Route 1, with people arriving to tend to their flus, their children's inoculations or their prescription renewals. But almost all the people bustling in and out had heard that the state had decided that the clinic would shut its doors next month, and most of them were upset.
"I've been a patient here since '77," said Gloria Reaves-Allen, as she paused at the front door before picking up a friend. "Now what am I going to do?" 
 That was the question some 150,000 people will be asking when H.I.P. Health Plan of New Jersey becomes the largest health maintenance organization in the state to be liquidated. The state has submitted an order to a judge asking that other health insurers absorb H.I.P.'s members despite any pre-existing health conditions.
But that was small consolation to many H.I.P. members who worried about the loss of the continuity they had built up with doctors.
"This is extremely upsetting," said Anne Cohen of East Brunswick, who had brought her 15-year-old son to see a doctor about his sinus problems. "I really dearly loved my pediatrician. He's been with us more than 20 years. He really kind of raised my children."
In an era when many people like to disparage health maintenance organizations for what they say are extreme cost-cutting measures and cookie-cutter services, many of the patients entering and leaving the Edison H.I.P. clinic and another one farther down Route 1 in New Brunswick, spoke of the loyalty they felt toward their doctors and the other medical professionals who have served them for years.
Many H.I.P. members at the two clinics said they were not too surprised that it had come to this. They had read newspaper articles for several years about the health provider's financial problems.
And some members said that many of their favorite doctors had left H.I.P. in the last few months as the fiscal problems grew worse, and had either joined other groups or had formed private practices.
Mrs. Cohen, who works as a third-grade teacher, said that everyone at her school had been talking about what H.M.O. or other insurer they should switch to.
"We talk about it all the time," she said. "People ask each other, 'What have you researched? What do you know about this one?' "
Kerrim Jivani, who has a Baskin-Robbins and Dunkin' Donuts franchise with two partners, said the three of them pay $1,500 a month to H.I.P. for family health coverage. He said that they had chosen the company in 1995 partly because of its fees, and that he was concerned about whether they could find the same quality of care for the same price.
"We'll have to change now," he said as he waited for his wife, who was in the Edison clinic with their 4-month-old daughter. "To which company, I don't know."
Gia Riddick and her daughter, Monique, 9, were leaving the clinic in New Brunswick, where a doctor had examined Monique and diagnosed strep throat.
Mrs. Riddick said that when her employer, Merrill Lynch, held a health-plan open enrollment period for employees last fall, her family had decided to stick with H.I.P. because it had served them so well for almost 20 years.
"I kind of thought they were going to pull through, since the state had gotten involved," she said.
Inside the Edison clinic, calls were being received from members asking what would happen. The attendants at the front desk told them that no one knew all the details yet of what the liquidation would mean.
"We tell them we know as much as they do, which is just what we've read in the newspapers," said Annette Watson, the clinical services manager. "But we're also telling everyone that until they close us down, we'll continue to provide excellent care to our patients."
Ms. Watson was asked what the liquidation would mean to the 35 employees at the Edison clinic. "It means we'll be unemployed," she said somberly.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Cohen, who has used the same H.I.P. pediatrician for her children for more than 20 years, said she found the announcement of the clinic's closing "extremely upsetting." (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (80%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); INSURANCE (68%); RETAIL BAKERIES (64%); 

PERSON: GIA RIDDICK (63%); ANNETTE WATSON (58%); ANNE COHEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



221 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
AMERICAN AIRLINES FORCED TO CANCEL THIRD OF FLIGHTS

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
The nation's second-largest airline was forced to cancel one-third of its flights yesterday after more than 2,000 of its pilots called in sick. The move inconvenienced tens of thousands of passengers around the country and threatened to disrupt the heavy air travel expected over the Presidents' Day weekend.
American Airlines said that it grounded 750, or 33 percent, of its 2,250 daily flights yesterday, affecting about 75,000 passengers, many of whom waited hours before getting on other flights, or were stranded for the night. American carries about 225,000 people on a normal day. 
 Members of the Allied Pilots Association, the independent union that represents American's 9,200 pilots, began calling in sick on Saturday, after talks broke down over how American would integrate a small airline it acquired in December, Reno Air, into its network. American was forced to cancel 90 flights Saturday. That increased to 500 on Monday before rising higher yesterday.
"My wife isn't very happy about this," said John Rubino, 36, a systems analyst from Dallas who was sipping a beer in a bar at O'Hare International Airport near Chicago yesterday afternoon awaiting a flight. He had expected to return home in the morning after doing business in Chicago. "Our girl is in a school play tonight and I'm not very happy about the chance of missing that. My boss understands about these things. It's harder for a 9-year-old girl."
American and the union resumed negotiations yesterday, but they did not end the disruption. After several hours of talks, the two sides adjourned and agreed to meet again today. In a statement, American called the meeting "helpful."
The union, in a statement, said that "no progress was achieved on our core issues" during the talks.
"The positive note is that both parties are talking again," said Chris Chiames, a spokesman for American. He added that at least several hundred more flights would be canceled today, but exactly how many he could not say.
Strikes are relatively rare at airlines because the 1934 Railway Labor Act, which governs labor relations in the industry, severely restricts when unions are allowed to walk out. Slowdowns and sickouts have occurred at American and other carriers before. For example, during Christmas, flight attendants at Trans World Airlines forced the cancellation of some flights after many called in sick. But no airline in recent memory has been crippled as severely as American has been.
Brian D. Harris, an industry analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in New York, estimated that the disruption had cost American $19 million so far and the figure was rising quickly.
Donald J. Carty, chief executive of the AMR Corporation, American's parent company, said on Monday that the pilots' actions were clearly illegal and that the company would seek a court order forcing them back to work if the talks failed.
But it was not clear whether a court order would have much impact. The leaders of the pilots' union say that the actions of the pilots are spontaneous. While they have avoided explicitly endorsing the job action, they have reminded their members that Federal regulations allow pilots to take themselves out of the cockpit if they do not feel fit to fly.
"American can prove actuarially that the pilots are staging a sickout," Mr. Harris said. "But it is a lot harder to prove that any particular pilot is."
American said that it did not know precisely how many passengers or which areas of the country were most severely affected by the cancellations. February is normally a light travel month. The airline said that it had been able to re-book many affected passengers on its other flights. It also said that it was transferring passengers to competing airlines. The airline was recommending that passengers check on the status of their flight by calling the company's toll-free reservation number and arrive early at the airport.
At airports in Chicago, Dallas, Miami and New York, where American has its biggest operations, passengers appeared to be suffering irritating delays but were not stranded in large numbers.
Chris Hannis, who flew on American to Dallas from Chicago on Sunday to attend a two-day seminar, switched to United for his flight home yesterday. But instead of landing at Midway Airport, from where he departed, he was flying to O'Hare. "They'll charge me another $20 for the extra day of parking," he said. "I think I'll send it to American and see if they'll pay."
Donet Desilus, who runs a tour company in Boston, got as far as Miami International Airport on his way to Haiti when his flight was canceled. "I found this out 15 minutes before the flight was supposed to leave," he said. "They didn't tell us why. They just sent us to a hotel."
 Corporate travel managers, who book airline tickets and make other travel arrangements for corporate clients, said that they were able to handle the disruption by protectively booking their clients on American and another airline.
"It's having a limited impact on our customers," said Don Munro, a spokesman for American Express, whose travel agencies had $19.9 billion in sales last year.
Harder hit were agencies that receive discounts from American in exchange for steering business to the airline. "It's been terribly disruptive," said Paul Metselaar, chairman of World Travel Specialists Group Inc. in New York. "Clients are getting to the airport and learning that their flight has been canceled."
Mr. Metselaar said that the double booking by agencies was causing a shortage of seats on some airlines.
The dispute between American and the pilots was touched off in December, after American bought Reno Air, which is based in Nevada, for $124 million. American said that it would take between a year to 18 months to integrate Reno's 25 airplanes and 300 pilots into its operations because pilots at both carriers needed to be retrained and Reno's jets needed to be refurbished.
But the union says that American is violating their contract, which requires all flying at the airline to be done by its members. They demand that American integrate Reno faster and begin paying pilots at both carriers as if the merger has been completed.
Behind the dispute are years of mistrust and resentment on the part of the pilots, who went on strike two years ago but were ordered back to work after only 20 minutes by President Clinton. Many pilots are still angry that they were denied their right to walk out.
The union says it believes that American's real agenda is to keep Reno as a separate low-cost carrier. Senior pilots at Reno make about $65,000 a year, less than half of what their counterparts earn at American.
American has said repeatedly that it intends to integrate the two airlines and bring Reno pilots up to the salary levels of pilots at American. "There is no reason for this dispute to continue," the airline said.
Most analysts and industry observers agree. With the holiday weekend approaching, they predict that the two sides will reach an accord. "My guess is that it will be resolved in the next couple of days because the financial harm is disproportionate to the issues at hand," Mr. Harris of Salomon Smith Barney said. "But that assumes that rationality prevails."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American Airlines departure screen said it all yesterday at Kennedy International Airport after more than 2,000 pilots called in sick. (Associated Press)(pg. C7); A family coped with delays yesterday at Miami International Airport. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ALLIED PILOTS ASSN; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



222 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
MANULIFE TO BUY DAIHYAKU INSURANCE BUSINESS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company of Canada said it would pay 80 billion yen, or $703.8 million (United States), for the business of the Daihyaku Life Insurance Company of Japan, becoming the second foreign insurer to buy into the world's largest life insurance market. Daihyaku will transfer most of its sales and support staff of 6,800 to a joint venture with Manulife, Canada's largest mutual life insurer. Manulife will own 75 percent of the venture, and Daihyaku will own the rest. Deregulation and Japan's weakening economy are providing opportunities for foreign companies to enter the Japanese insurance market, which, with annual premiums of $500 billion, is about twice the size of its counterpart in the United States. GE Capital Services, a unit of the General Electric Company, is already active there. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MFC (TSX) (98%); MFC (NYSE) (98%); 0945 (HKSE) (98%); GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (98%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (98%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (98%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURERS LIFE INSURANCE CO (X.MAL); DAIHYAKU LIFE INSURANCE CO MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (98%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANUFACTURERS LIFE INSURANCE CO (X.MAL); DAIHYAKU LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (91%); DEREGULATION (88%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



223 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Crew and Jackson Assail Pataki For Proposed Education Budget

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Critics of Gov. George E. Pataki's education budget sharpened their attacks today, with the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson accusing Mr. Pataki of favoring prisons over schools, while Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said there was no point in even meeting with the Governor to try to change his mind.
Making an unusually direct foray into state policy, Mr. Jackson told a joint hearing here of the Assembly and Senate finance committees that the Republican Governor was "using our children as political trade-offs," by under-financing schools while building prisons in depressed upstate communities to mollify voters there who need jobs. "These poor schools serve as feeder systems for the prison-industrial complex," he said to reporters after the hearing. 
 Mr. Jackson, who is traveling to several state capitals to lobby for more money for education, compared Mr. Pataki to Orval Faubus of Arkansas and George C. Wallace of Alabama, two Governors who tried to block racial integration of their states' schools, and to Pete Wilson, the former California Governor who tried to build a Presidential campaign on his opposition to affirmative action and immigration.
"We see Pataki in that tradition," he said. "Whether you're blocking school doors in Alabama and Arkansas or simply locking kids out of closed school doors in New York, it's not the wave of the American future."
Michael McKeon, Mr. Pataki's press secretary, said: "Jesse Jackson's partisan attack is absurd. It doesn't warrant comment. Coming from someone in public life, it's surprisingly undignified."
This year, the Democrats who control the Assembly have turned the annual hearings on the Governor's budget proposal into a platform for lambasting Mr. Pataki, particularly on education, inviting prominent critics like Mr. Jackson and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to testify.
Despite a $2 billion surplus, the Governor's $72.66 billion proposed budget would increase aid to local school districts by only 1.3 percent. It would also eliminate a package of education programs for very young children, including pre-kindergarten and expanded kindergarten offerings, freeze aid to public colleges, and sharply reduce tuition aid to poor college students.
Aides to the Governor point out that in the last two years, under Mr. Pataki, New York has sharply increased spending on schools, and the total, adjusted for inflation and the number of students, has matched the previous highs reached in the late 1980's.
Today, Dr. Crew, who addressed the committees after Mr. Jackson, called the Governor's proposal "a very mean-spirited budget on behalf of children."
When asked why he was not meeting with the Governor during his trip to the Capitol, he said, "At this point in time, there is not enough of a relationship to meet with the Governor."
The Governor and his aides have reacted angrily to accusations that he had cut New York City's share of education aid, or had reneged on a promise to finance early-childhood school programs. They have repeatedly reminded reporters of the increases in education spending the last two years, and noted that while the city's schools still receive less state aid per pupil than the statewide average, that gap has narrowed slightly in recent years.
Democrats who are furious at the Governor's proposed education cuts, and still angry over his veto last year of $500 million for school construction, warmly received Mr. Jackson. But some Republican legislators dismissed him as an outsider whose grasp of the local facts was weak. "He should stay out of things when he has no idea what he's talking about," said Assemblyman John J. Faso, the Republican minority leader.
The Governor's budget proposal came a few days after he appointed a commission to investigate New York City's School Construction Authority, a move that was widely taken as a slap at Mr. Giuliani, his fellow Republican. Their highly public spats over the budget and the investigation have renewed a long-running feud between the two men that was never very deeply buried.
Mr. Jackson waded into the debate over the construction authority, too, calling the Governor's inquiry "more diversion."
In addition to commenting on Mr. Pataki's policies, Mr. Jackson derided the Governor's possible aspirations to higher office. "Big platform," he said, referring to the New York stage, but "small agenda."
Referring to the screaming blocks of type on the front pages of tabloid newspapers, he said, "Sometimes I think the size of New York headlines gives New York politicians the impression that is their size."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson spoke with Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr. of Manhattan yesterday before testifying in Albany on education. (Associated Press)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDUCATION FUNDING (93%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRISONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (54%); RACE & RACISM (53%); IMMIGRATION (52%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



224 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Studies on Class Size Offer Mixed Results

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK

 BODY:
If every pupil had a personal tutor, students would undoubtedly learn more than they would in 100-student classes. But studies differ sharply on just how well smaller classes work.
In a new study by the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, class size was reduced to 15 students, kindergarten through third grade, in more than 70 public schools in low-income areas. In data released last month for the 1997-98 year, researchers reported that first-graders scored significantly higher than students in a control group. The study also found evidence of continuing advantages in math, reading and language arts in the second grade. The biggest gains were among black pupils. 
 The Wisconsin report follows President Clinton's 1998 and 1999 budget messages calling for $12 billion over seven years to hire 100,000 teachers and reduce classes to 18 pupils in lower grades.
But the United States Department of Education, in its report last month on teacher quality, found the data on effects of class size to be "somewhat mixed." It is reasonable, the report added, to assume that smaller classes mean fewer disruptions and more personal attention. But a 30-year department study completed in the 80's found no consistent tie between smaller class sizes and higher standardized test scores.
Eric Hanushek, an economics professor at the University of Rochester, concluded in a study last year that the quality of the teacher was more important than class size.
 MICHAEL POLLAK 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



225 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Charges of Harassment Of Asians and Blacks

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
An unemployed Middlesex County man was charged yesterday with harassing Asian Indians and blacks by purposely walking or "crashing" into them at two malls in Woodbridge and then yelling racial epithets.
The man, identified by the police as William Rich, also threw rocks from a moving vehicle at Indian immigrants, including women and children, the authorities said. 
 No serious injuries resulted, said Chuck Davis, a spokesman for the State Attorney General's office.
Mr. Rich, 18, of Woodbridge was arrested Monday night in Milford, Pa., and extradited to New Jersey. He was being held yesterday in the Middlesex County Jail on $100,000 bail. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (74%); STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); EXTRADITION (86%); ARRESTS (86%); BAIL (83%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (83%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (53%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM E RICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999



226 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 3; Circuits

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Buying Is Only a Click (Oops!) Away

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
SPENDING thousands of dollars used to take some effort. You had to get dressed. Get out of the house. Make eye contact. Count change. It could take days. Weeks, even.
But getting and spending are easier on line, and the membrane between impulse and purchase has grown thinner. Web sites draw surfers toward the shoals of indebtedness, offering novelty, speed, convenience, bargains, unlimited hours, coupons, new deals daily, limited sales tax and helpful suggestions from other shoppers. Simply click on Buy Now, and pay later. 
 As the credit card bills of history's biggest, most touted holiday E-commerce season are coming due and accruing double-digit interest, Internet surfers are shopping before breakfast, shopping alone and picking up an extra book or three -- causing some of them to wind up hiding the resulting credit card bills from their spouses. How did these people get hooked? What is so compelling about the Internet marketplace?
Although on-line shopping still amounts to only a tiny fraction of all retail sales -- 1 percent of consumer sales, according to Joseph Vause, vice president for electronic commerce at Visa USA -- it is expected to match the current catalogue and mail-order share of the market by 2003. And with 99 percent of Internet sales conducted with plastic, compared with 20 percent of conventional sales, the potential to run up a credit card bill is significantly higher.
The temptation to spend money on line can be even harder to resist when a Web surfer taps into the excitement of an auction.
"Ebay is definitely addictive!" Jane Brasovan of The Woodlands, Tex., said via E-mail. She estimated that she had bought 1,500 to 2,000 items, most of them antiques and dolls, on the Ebay auction site.
"I am trying to stop this addictive cycle at the present time," she continued, "as I've spent far too much money and now have a houseful of 'things' that I would probably be better off without!"
In a phone interview, she added: "It's hard to stop. I've tried stopping, but I don't do too well. You get kind of carried away, bidding on something, and when somebody outbids you, you get mad because they outbid you. You go in and bid and know darned well you shouldn't. Sometimes you feel like saying, 'You're not going to get that if I can't get it.' " Ms. Brasovan said she had spent up to six or seven hours at a stretch on the Ebay site.
Allison Ector, editor and publisher of Covert Shoppers Anonymous, an on-line compendium of Web bargains, figures that she spends $800 a month on line, far more than she used to spend when driving to stores near her home in West Chester, Pa.
"It's just clicking buttons," she said, "and it's easy to say, 'Well, I'll worry about this next month when I get the bill.' " She has found herself playing an economies-of-scale game with shipping and handling charges. "When I get to the end of that shopping cart transaction, I've often hit the Back button, gone back and purchased more things, to make it cost effective," she said.
It may be hard to find on-line shopaholics who have become so hooked on new-media marketing that they have resorted to pilfering from their children's college funds or have moved back to their parents'. But there are many people, particularly at the auction sites, who find themselves powerless in the face of items for sale on line.
Debbie Lunden, who collects McCoy kitchenware from the 1940's and 1950's, signs on to Ebay once a day to see what is being auctioned.
"For years I had been looking for a teapot," said Ms. Lunden, director of the McKean County Planning Commission in Pennsylvania. "I knew there had to be one." In October, she found one, and the closing bids were due at 5 A.M.
"I set the alarm and was up at 4:45 in the morning, thinking, 'That gives me 15 minutes to get connected,' " she said. She panicked when she discovered that her husband had packed away the laptop, but she got on line in time to buy the teapot, plus a creamer and sugar bowl, for $97, including shipping -- "a real buy," she said. Ms. Lunden lives in Bradford, Pa., population about 9,600, where the shopping possibilities are limited.
"It was something I really had to have," she said of the teapot. "I'm not a person to get up in the middle of the night, but I had to because that's when the bidding was. I had to make a sacrifice, and it was worth it."
"I'm totally addicted to just surfing thousands of items on Ebay," Gib Bergman, a cook in Sutersville, Pa., wrote via E-mail. Mr. Bergman, a shopper who has bid on scores of items, including knives, Beanie Babies and Elvis memorabilia, at Ebay, continued: "And it is so easy to spend money that you don't have just laying around. It's worse than being an alcoholic -- an obsessive gambler is more like it."
"I'm pretty much an addict," Mr. Bergman added. His wife, Helen, used to be able to restrain him from buying, he said, but no more. "I used to go to flea markets," he said. "You'd see stuff and she'd say, 'That's too much,' but here I'm here by myself. I'll put a bid in on something and later say to her, 'Guess what I got?' It's just like a candy store -- it is very addictive." In 10 years of conventional shopping he could never have acquired the number of Elvis items he has been able to buy via Ebay, he said.
Experts on credit and commerce readily recognize the seductions of E-commerce. Kimberly S. Young, founder of the Center for On-Line Addiction in Bradford, Pa., said the auction sites were exciting -- shopping as entertainment.
"When you're the winner, that's reinforcing," she said. "For that moment, you're engaged, it gives you a favorable high. You're completely absorbed in this, and it's kind of an escape mechanism. You start to think, 'What else do I need?' "
Sometimes clicking fingers take over where the brain leaves off, said Wayne S. DeSarbo, a marketing professor at Pennsylvania State University. "There's so little time to think about what you're doing and rationalize it," he said. "As the result of just a few keystrokes, you're done and gone. For the compulsive shopper, this would provide a quick and easy fix from the stress and anxiety of everyday life. It's a temporary high one gets from shopping. There's little time for rationalization."
Bill Furmanski, a spokesman for the National Foundation for Consumer Credit, said it could be easier to buy impulsively on line than off. "In the mall, it's easier to recommend that you put an item down and walk away, and see if you still need it at the end of your trip, to ease the impulse purchases you make," he said. "On the Internet, it's not as easy. Maybe you should sign off first, and it will still be there when you sign back on."
Splurges on line appear to differ from splurges off line. People watching the Home Shopping Network might end up with many lifetime supplies of cubic zirconia and Ginzu knives. But wired shoppers talk sheepishly of their "Amazon problems": a tendency to spend more at Amazon.com than they had budgeted for books, software and CD's, items that are, if you rationalize carefully, inherently useful for self-improvement.
Many aspects of the Internet encourage impulsive or compulsive buying.
"You're alone, and kind of nobody sees what you're doing," said the founder of Spenders Anonymous, a support group in Minneapolis, speaking on the condition of anonymity, "and when you're into your addiction, you want it that way." For shy people, an Internet auction provides welcome anonymity.
"For a lot of people that are shy -- not the competitive people who go to auction houses and compete with real people -- it's a much safer domain," said Dr. Young, who is an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Pittsburgh at Bradford. "It's anonymous, it's private, and there is a sense of winning."
The Internet can also empower shoppers, said Austan Goolsbee, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Chicago, giving them the benefits of haggling and comparison shopping without making them take the chance of offending anyone face to face.
"You would feel kind of self-conscious asking someone at an airline to run through 100 scenarios for a flight you want to take," he said, so travelers can fiddle with schedules or destination cities more easily on line. "And where you're comparison shopping, it oftentimes makes people feel a little bad for walking out of the store." But no Web site is going to call a person rude for heading elsewhere for a better bargain.
Offering power to the consumer can be the Internet's most effective way to lure buyers.
"Consumers are now in control, and it is so compelling" said Donna Hoffman, a professor of marketing at Vanderbilt University. "It's not the lack of sales tax, not the convenience, not the potential economic savings, that makes on-line shopping attractive. It's just the chance to be in control. The balance of power between business and the consumer has shifted radically. If you're the business, you're no longer in 100 percent control."
Electronic shoppers want convenience, and they want it now. Where they can get it, they're willing to pay for it, plus shipping and handling.
"The modern analogy is the minibar in your hotel room," said Jerry Kaplan, a co-founder of Onsale.com, a discount retailer. "Would you usually pay $2 for a Diet Coke? Absolutely not. But in the minibar in the hotel room, you're more likely to go for it. Here you have people sitting at a computer all day, and a lot of sales take place. They're discretionary purchases due to convenience, where you've eliminated the cost of physically going out and shopping."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHE HAD TO HAVE IT -- Debbie Lunden, a pottery collector, rose at 4:45 A.M. to bid on a teapot on line. She won. Ms. Lunden showed off her prize at home in Bradford, Pa. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Allison Ector, shown with some of her bounty, spends $800 a month on line. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. A9); SO MUCH STUFF -- Jane Brasovan of Texas has bought up to 2,000 items on line, most of them dolls and antiques at the Ebay auction site. "It's hard to stop," she said. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); WEB SITES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SALES TAX (72%); PUBLISHING (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



227 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 4; Column 5; Circuits

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: SCREEN GRAB;
A Site for Venting

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
FED up with hearing about the glories of the Internet? Fed up with watching your sister-in-law get rich investing in tiny Internet companies you just know will tank any day? Fed up with Pollyannas singing the economy's praises even as your boss kicks you in the shin?
Or, perhaps, simply fed up? 
 Well, never fear -- there are Web sites for you, too.
What's your pleasure (or pain)? Are you disgusted, in despair or merely disgruntled?
Disgruntled, you say? Then go to Disgruntled and get it out of your system (www.disgruntled.com). There you'll find "an on-line magazine that combines news, feature, satire and commentary about the darker side of the world of work."
The site's creator, Daniel S. Levine, writes, "I invite all takers to use these pages to vent and tell their tales of horror, disgust, frustration, liberation and revenge."
At last! Spill out, sweet rage! You start typing your particular horror story -- you're really on a roll -- and sure enough, there comes your boss, looking for a reason to kick your other shin. Uh-oh.
But never fear. Disgruntled has imagined this exact scene.
"If you are reading Disgruntled at work and your boss is heading your way, just hit the Boss button" -- a green frowny face, complete with cigar. Click on it, and up pops a screen headed: "Our mission is to increase shareholder value," followed by a list of revenue figures. (Hmmm. If you're a writer or artist on deadline, that might not cut it.)
Now click on Readers' Tales, where the categories include Around the Water Cooler, Family Business, Fed Up, Getting Even, Getting Gruntled, Inhuman Relations, Temporary Insanity and Work Is Hazardous to Your Health.
Getting even. That sounds juicy.
Did some workplace nightmare drive Mr. Levine to create this site? Not really. "Listening to some of the horror stories," he said in a telephone interview, "I've come to realize I've been fairly fortunate in my work experience." Then again, when asked about his worst job, he said, "I guess in some ways they all were."
Mr. Levine, 37, a freelance business writer based near Berkeley, Calif., started the site three years ago, he said, because "when I pitched a story from the perspective of employees, editors weren't interested." But in his reporting, he said, he found "people on all rungs of the ladder increasingly expressing frustration."
The site, basically a one-person operation, carries some advertising, from Amazon.com and others, but it is no moneymaker. "The revenues," Mr. Levine said, "have gone from negligible to insignificant." So where can Mr. Levine -- whose book "Disgruntled: The Darker Side of the World of Work" (Putnam) was published last fall -- vent his own disgruntlement? "At myself," he said with a laugh, "for not paying myself enough."
If you still don't feel better after exploring his site, click on this link: Feeling De-Motivated? Click Here to Show It. And you soon find yourself at Despair Inc., which says it employs or works with "a wide variety of writers, designers, programmers and fulfillment personnel, all of whom remain hopelessly dissatisfied with their jobs, their relationships and their lives."
"This chronic state of frustration guarantees that the fruits of their labor won't be diluted with hope, sentiment or good cheer," it adds.
Here you can order Despair Wear -- T-shirts, say, with messages like "I found the cure for hope" or "Another dissatisfied customer." And there's a Despair calendar, with Jan. 12 listed as the Procrastinators' New Year's.
But what if you want to up the ante, to progress from disgruntled to despair and downright disgusted?
Too late. These folks must have taken their name to heart and packed it in. "For Sale: www.disgusted.com," the screen says. "This domain may be available for your project!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel S. Levine, creator of the Disgruntled site on the Internet. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (91%); WRITERS (88%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



228 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC EYE;
Little Logos, Big Load

BYLINE: By Karrie Jacobs

 BODY:
THE logo is nothing spectacular. If it were for a private business, an ethnic restaurant, say, I wouldn't give it a second glance. It's just three lowercase letters topped by what looks like a giant circumflex. But this understated, economical symbol represents the United States Government -- the Housing and Urban Development Department, to be precise. The big accent mark is actually a roof.
Usually, branches of the Government represent themselves with something that looks official, which these days means a minimalist rendition of an eagle. HUD is no exception. The logo that still appears on its fax cover sheets is a big bird with its wings abstracted and cropped to resemble a city skyline. But last year, the department adopted a mark that is jeans-and-T-shirt casual. 
 Lisa MacSpadden, the deputy assistant secretary for public affairs, explained that the new symbol was a pet project of Andrew M. Cuomo, the HUD Secretary. She volunteered Mr. Cuomo, a Cabinet member with a $25 billion bureaucracy to run, for an interview about the logo.
But the Secretary didn't exactly want to discuss the logo. "We said first we'd change the reality of the department, then the reality would change the perception," he began. Once he had begun, there was no stopping him. "The reality is about a downsizing, its new system design, its new management structure, its new employees, its new training. Part of changing the reality is changing the culture and the stance, the positioning of the department. . . ."
Mr. Cuomo, like his father, Mario M. Cuomo, does not believe in brevity. But his message, in short, is that HUD's image, which never quite recuperated from the department's losses during the real-estate collapse of the 80's, is being made anew.
The logo, which was designed by the BBDO South advertising agency in Atlanta and first appeared in television spots featuring the consummate nice guys Bob Vila and Tim Allen, is only one facet of the department's new anti-bureaucratic style.
The architecture firm of Gensler was hired to invent "HUD Next Door," a program for transforming departmental offices into storefronts where members of the public can drift in, lounge in comfy chairs, fiddle with computers and learn what HUD can do for them. All that's missing is a coffee bar.
Gensler also designed a logo: a silhouette of a house with a pitched roof next to a squarish apartment building, with "HUD" inset into the base and the phrase "next door" extending into space. Gensler's icon appears on HUD's stores, its new information kiosks and its Web site.
A cheerful-looking departmental booklet issued in December, "100 Questions and Answers About Buying a New Home," displays the BBDO logo on the front and a version of the Gensler logo on the back.
John Bricker, a Gensler vice president, who helped conjure up the "next door" concept, said he didn't understand why the department needed or wanted an additional logo. "I'm surprised by the disconnect," he added.
When asked about the dual logos, David Stanton, BBDO South's group creative director, was tactful. "We would like to have more synergy," he said, and suggested that HUD could "connect the dots tighter."
I'm not surprised that this megalithic Federal agency, so chronically entangled in its own bureaucracy that in January it made the General Accounting Office's list of "high risk" agencies for the fifth year running, commissioned two graphic symbols of its new, approachable nature. Of course, it's not as if either design were going to waste. HUD Next Door stores are opening in city after city. Washington was the first, followed by Albuquerque, N.M., and Buffalo. Stores are due soon in Reno and Baltimore. And the little roof logo will soon appear in a string of kooky television spots by BBDO.
The point of all this creative ferment, Secretary Cuomo explained, is to persuade the home-buying public that HUD is "on our side."
"One of the things we're battling is disenfranchisement from government, negative feelings about government," he said. "Especially the Federal Government."
I have to admit that this is a monumental task for one little logo. I can see that HUD might need two.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: PROP UP THE ROOF -- The logo designed by BBDO South, left; the Gensler logo, below.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BBDO SOUTH (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CITIES (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



229 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Official Gets Approval For Key Visit To Turkey

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, Feb. 10

 BODY:
The Government of Saddam Hussein scored at least a symbolic diplomatic coup today when it was announced that the Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, would visit Turkey next week.
A statement from the Foreign Ministry here said that Mr. Aziz would arrive in Ankara on Monday for "high-level discussions regarding Iraq and the Turkey-Iraq relationship." 
 The announcement came at a time when Iraq appeared to be increasingly isolated. In recent weeks, Iraqi leaders have bitterly accused many countries in the Middle East of abandoning the Iraqi cause.
At the same time, the United States has stepped up its efforts to overthrow the Iraqi Government. American planes were bombing Iraq at almost the same moment that Mr. Aziz's visit to Ankara was being announced.
The United States Embassy in Ankara, where diplomats are anxious to prevent Iraq from driving a wedge between the United States and Turkey, issued a restrained statement in response. It said only that Turkey "has its own foreign policy" and that Turkish leaders should "stress to Mr. Aziz the need for Iraq to comply with U.N. Security Council resolutions."
An American official speaking on condition of anonymity, however, was more explicit. "We don't like it," the diplomat said of Mr. Aziz's planned visit. "Why would they give him sanction and access when we're trying to isolate him? It runs counter to what we want to do."
Although Turkey and the United States are NATO allies and close political partners, differences between their policies toward Iraq have broken into the open since Bulent Ecevit became Prime Minister last month.
Mr. Ecevit, a lifelong leftist and self-proclaimed anti-imperialist, has for years expressed sympathy with Iraq and Mr. Hussein. This month, as American war planes flying from the Incirlik base in southern Turkey have repeatedly bombed Iraqi targets, Mr. Ecevit has begun to question their mission.
"The Iraqis are zealous supporters of their independence," Mr. Ecevit said during a televised interview last week. "It is unclear how the American Government will reach its goals to overthrow Saddam Hussein. It doesn't seem to have formed a policy on Iraq. It needs to plan carefully what to do about that issue, and Turkey should contribute to those plans."
Foreign Minister Ismail Cem said that Turkey remains willing to allow American planes to use the Incirlik base and wants Iraq to comply with United Nations resolutions that require it to allow monitoring of its weapons programs.
"We're very strongly asking for full compliance," Mr. Cem said in a telephone interview. "The Americans have their policies, but Iraq is a state and a neighbor of ours. When the leadership of a neighboring state asks to create the groundwork for coming over and having bilateral talks, I think it is normal to proceed with that."
Today, American fighter jets based in Turkey did not respond when Iraqi jets violated the northern no-flight zone, whereas allied jets based in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait retaliated against violations in the southern zone. A Pentagon official said there has been no easing of enforcement in the north as a result of any unease on Turkey's part regarding strikes from its territory.
"We will continue to respond to Iraqi provocations in the north," the official said.
Turkey and Iraq enjoyed good relations before the Persian Gulf war. Since the war, Turkey has lost billions of dollars as a result of trade sanctions imposed on Iraq by the United Nations.
A national election is scheduled here on April 18, and by inviting Iraq's second-ranking leader to Ankara, Mr. Ecevit may be seeking to shore up his support among leftist voters and the thousands of families along the Iraqi border who have lost their livelihoods as a result of the United Nations sanctions.
"Ecevit is under intense criticism for sitting on the lap of the United States and letting the Americans use the Incirlik base for bombing Iraq," said Cengiz Candar, an author and commentator who is a specialist on Middle Eastern politics. "It runs against the image he cultivated over the years as having a distance from the United States and sympathizing with the plight of the Iraqi people and with Saddam. On the eve of the election campaign, he might see that as a weak spot. He may also be hoping to use this as a bargaining chip to get more sympathy and economic aid from Washington."
"For Tariq Aziz, the visit is important because in the post-King Hussein era Jordan may become a base for the Iraqi opposition, and he wants to keep Turkey from becoming another link in that chain," Mr. Candar said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (90%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COUPS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



230 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Widening Olympic Scandal

 BODY:
The ethics panel drafted to investigate the role of vote-buying in Salt Lake City's successful bid for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games has greatly expanded the scandal's known topography. Although the panel had neither subpoena power nor its own auditors, it still managed to implicate a wider array of Olympic officials in the bribery transactions and to penetrate some of the ruses used to hide the payments. Its efforts need to be followed up by a more forceful investigation.
The panel identified 10 more International Olympic Committee members suspected of trading their votes for money and other lucrative benefits provided by Salt Lake City boosters. That raises the total to 24, or about one-fifth, of the members who have now been linked to the scandal. The panel also found evidence that the United States Olympic Committee helped Salt Lake City organizers deliver on a promise to train Sudanese athletes in return for the Sudan's vote, thus implicating Olympic officials at the national level. 
 But the panel, appointed by the trustees of the Salt Lake City organizing committee, was notably circumspect in pointing fingers in Utah. Its report suggests that the unethical conduct was the handiwork primarily of two or three bad apples on the Salt Lake City committees and concludes that the higher-ups, the trustees, were out of the loop about direct payments. It also characterized the misdeeds as unethical but not criminal. Only inquiries by the United States Justice Department and other authorities with subpoena power will be credible enough to render such judgments.
Nevertheless the investigative leads contained in the panel's report should strengthen the hand of reformers within the I.O.C. and major corporations that spend hundreds of millions on sponsorships and ads and thus underwrite much of the $1.45 billion cost of staging the Winter Games. Both sets of stakeholders should demand that the I.O.C. hire an independent, internationally respected law firm and auditors to take over the investigation of Salt Lake City and all other abuses in the bidding process in recent years. These outsiders should also propose structural changes to transform the I.O.C. from a secretive club accountable to no one into a body that is representative of the world's nations, democratic in its selection of venues and transparent in its business dealings.
Like publicly traded corporations, the I.O.C., with its ever-growing economic power, needs annual audits by outside examiners and strict conflict-of-interest rules. It also needs to clean out the management team that tolerated the bribe-taking culture. Only then can the I.O.C. hope to rebuild its credibility. A ritual vote of confidence in Juan Antonio Samaranch, the I.O.C.'s president, by his minions in March will only further damage the Olympic movement.
The John Hancock insurance company has concluded that the scandal has devalued the Olympic rings and the value of the Games for advertisers. While it remains an Olympic sponsor, it is removing the rings from its next annual report, stationery and other material where feasible. Its cancellation of negotiations to place about $20 million in commercials on NBC during the Winter Games contains a not-so-subtle message: Corporate America can, and should, bring its collective clout to bear in reforming the I.O.C. now. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (96%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (92%); UTAH, USA (96%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OLYMPICS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); BRIBERY (77%); AUDITS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



231 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Rebel Leader In East Timor Moves Closer To Freedom

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Feb. 10

 BODY:
With Indonesia's edging toward a new status for the disputed territory of East Timor, officials today moved the independence leader Alexandre Gusmao halfway to freedom, transferring him from a prison to a barred and guarded house.
Clenching his fist briefly in a modest salute, the trim and bearded Mr. Gusmao said he expected to play a full role, from his new home, in international negotiations over whether the former Portuguese colony is to become independent or remain linked to Indonesia. 
 "I am always optimistic about independence in East Timor," he said, adding: "We know that negotiation on many conflicts in the world have run for years. If all parties are not willing to reduce the violence and hatred, the dialogues are useless."
Like a number of other East Timorese leaders, Mr. Gusmao, 52, who has been in prison for seven years for his role in leading a separatist insurgency, has recently argued against moving too rapidly toward freedom or even toward a referendum on freedom.
Since Indonesia invaded the remote and tiny territory in 1975, annexing it the next year, human rights groups say, up to 200,000 people have died in fighting and human rights abuses.
Emotions have grown hotter, and renewed violence has flared in recent weeks as Indonesia has, for the first time, said that it was ready to consider loosening its grip on the territory.
The United Nations, which has never recognized Indonesian sovereignty in East Timor, is brokering talks over the status of the territory, which Indonesia claims as its 27th province.
Foreign Minister Ali Alatas, who met his Portuguese counterpart in New York over the weekend, said last week for the first time that Indonesia would consider full independence if the people of East Timor rejected a new autonomous relationship with Jakarta.
But he said he ruled out holding a referendum on status, a vote that many East Timorese are demanding, saying it could lead to civil war among opposing factions.
Mr. Gusmao, who is popularly known by his nickname, Xanana, has said he was also concerned about the possible destabilizing effects of a referendum. He said such a vote should be held only after a 10-year period of social reconciliation and economic development.
Diplomatic negotiations are focusing on what status to seek for East Timor, how soon and how to determine it what it should be.
"The question now is just to find out how we are going to consult the people of East Timor," said Joao Carrascalao, a former governor of the territory and and an advocate of separation from Indonesia. Mr. Carrascalao has also said he believes that after independence has been granted East Timor would need the presence of a United Nations peacekeeping force for at least two years.
The East Timor talks are a chief product of the "reform" period overseen by President B. J. Habibie since President Suharto's ouster in May.
But like other changes, the opening of debate and the loosening of harsh controls have given rise to new uncertainties and violent confrontations. Separatist guerrillas who had become dormant in the hills grew active again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (95%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); CIVIL WAR (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); GOVERNORS (62%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDRE GUSMAO (81%); JOAO CARRASCALAO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



232 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIAL: THE OBSTACLE;
As Threat to Censure Resolution in Senate, Texan Is a Familiar Roadblock

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Comity is the grease that allows the Senate to run. That is why Senator Phil Gramm, who has a propensity for throwing sand in the Senate's gears, stands out so starkly.
His determination to block a bipartisan move to censure President Clinton is completely within character. Year after year since he has been in politics, Senator Gramm, a staunchly conservative Texas Republican, has frustrated his colleagues on matters he felt strongly about, and more often than not, he has gotten his way. 
 Late last year, for instance, Senator Gramm almost single-handedly blocked a Senate vote on a carefully arranged compromise bill that would have lifted some of the barriers separating commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Never mind that supporters of the bill were among the largest benefactors of the Republican Party and that the chief sponsor of the Senate compromise, Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, badly wanted the bill to pass to help in his race for re-election, which he ultimately lost.
Last year, Mr. Gramm led the opposition to legislation that would have raised cigarette taxes and permitted more Government regulation of tobacco companies. Never mind that the chief sponsor of the tobacco bill was his best friend in the Senate, John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
"In dealing with his peers, he often doesn't observe the traditional niceties," said a former staff member who insisted on not being identified.
Senator Gramm's press secretary, Larry Neal, expressed what is doubtless the Senator's self-image: "There will always be a Horatius-at-the-gate element to him." Horatius was a legendary Roman hero who, with two lone companions, held an invading Etruscan army at bay.
The Senator, who is 56 years old and in his 15th year in the Senate, seems to delight in being cantankerous, even when his allies call him a nuisance and his enemies call him much worse. He regularly jokes about his reputation for being mean. He cites the evident affection of his wife, his staff and his dog. And at least once he told a dinner audience that he really did have a heart, adding after the requisite pause, "I keep it in a quart jar on my desk."
At the beginning of the Senate's consideration of impeachment this year, Senator Gramm played the surprise role of conciliator. He and his ideological opposite, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, sold the Senate on a plan that allowed the trial to begin and deferred a decision on summoning witnesses. But now he is back in his familiar position as a roadblock. Most Democrats and some Republicans favor a resolution to censure Mr. Clinton after the vote to remove him from office fails.
To pass, such a resolution would require 51 votes, a simple majority, which might be possible, but Mr. Gramm has vowed to block the vote. Under the rules, it would take 60 votes, probably an unattainable number, to bypass him.
The Senator's opposition to censure is both practical and political. As a practical matter, he said on Sunday on "Meet the Press," the NBC News program, that it would open the door for the Senate to vote censure whenever it disapproved of actions by a President -- when, for instance, "a future Harry Truman fires a future General MacArthur."
Politically, Mr. Gramm said, he does not want to give the senators who voted to acquit the President the "political cover" of being able to say officially that they disapproved of Mr. Clinton's behavior.
There is hardly a more formidable opponent in the Senate, in large part because Mr. Gramm is so smart, so tenacious and so quick on his feet in debate. In an interview last year on another topic, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, said he expected that on an intelligence test, Senator Gramm, who has a Ph.D. in economics, would score higher than anyone else in the Senate. Coincidentally, Mr. Bennett is a leading Republican proponent of censure.
Mr. Gramm's apparent lack of concern about irritating his colleagues has been the dominant characteristic of his years in Congress. He was elected to the House as a Democrat in 1978 and, in 1981, at the beginning of his second term, he was put on the Budget Committee after signing a promise to Democratic leaders that he would be loyal to the party's budget. Instead, he secretly collaborated with Republicans.
When Democratic leaders retaliated in 1983 by kicking him off the Budget Committee, Mr. Gramm quit the party, resigned from the House, was handily re-elected as a Republican in a special election and then, the next year, was elected to the Senate.
When Mr. Gramm ran for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1996, his sometimes abrasive personality came back to haunt him in the early contests in small states where personal contact with voters can be crucial. He finished an embarrassing fifth in the Iowa caucuses and dropped out of the race before the New Hampshire primary, when polls there showed him far behind.
With his Presidential race behind him, Mr. Gramm has thrown himself into the business of the Senate, becoming centrally involved not just in the impeachment trial but in almost all the major legislation before Congress. In an interview last month, he said his main goal this year was legislation that would turn Social Security into a mostly private system in which workers controlled their own retirement accounts.
President Clinton opposes this approach. Mr. Gramm said he was not even thinking about compromise.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (86%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NUISANCE (72%); INSURANCE (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (66%); TOBACCO MFG (66%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); TAX INCREASES (52%); 

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



233 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
By Any Name, A Rose Is Dear As a Valentine

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS are in luck this week. Unlike other Americans, who are forced to shop for Valentine's Day without any official guidance, we have the annual rose survey from the Department of Consumer Affairs.
Jules Polonetsky, the agency's Commissioner, called a news conference to reveal that local florists raise the price of roses by about 33 percent for Valentine's Day. This correlation between price and demand might seem inevitable to some people -- anyone, say, who has opened an economics textbook -- but Mr. Polonetsky will not stand for it. 
 Besides lamenting the price increases, he has developed a strategy to help New Yorkers avoid, as he put it, "seeing red this Valentine's Day." Pointing to a critical discovery made by his agency's investigators -- that different florists in New York charge different prices -- he outlined a technique for buying flowers.
"Consumers," he explained, "can save significantly by choosing one florist over another."
Could this particular strategy -- the technical term is "shopping" -- have applications even beyond Valentine's Day roses? Possibly, although the Commissioner did not elaborate. Nor did he address another question raised by his agency's research: do the investigators at the Department of Consumer Affairs have a little too much time on their hands?
New Yorkers depend on the consumer agency to enforce laws against fraud, but they generally manage to deal with honest merchants all by themselves. They could probably survive without any of the agency's seasonal price surveys -- roses on Valentine's Day, gasoline on Memorial Day, turkey at Thanksgiving, gefilte fish at Passover.
These rituals have given Mr. Polonetsky and his predecessors publicity as they wail against seasonal price increases, but consumers do not necessarily benefit. If florists didn't raise prices at Valentine's Day, consumers would suffer in two ways.
First, many cost-conscious New Yorkers who now order other flowers for Valentine's Day -- because their partners aren't fanatical about getting roses -- would start ordering them, so there wouldn't be enough roses to meet the increased demand. As a result, some rose fanatics would have to do without.
Second, the customers who buy roses at other times of the year would end up paying artificially high prices to subsidize the customers on Valentine's Day. There's a good reason that prices are higher this week: the roses cost extra to grow and ship.
TO meet this annual peak in demand, growers in the United States, Colombia, Ecuador and Holland must prune their bushes in the late fall to start new growth in time for Valentine's Day.
"By pruning, you're cutting off a lot of roses that would have bloomed before Valentine's Day," Jim Lebberes, the president of Kiamos and Tooker, a flower wholesaler in the Bronx, explained. "So you're sacrificing a lot of production, and you need to recover that lost income somehow."
Then there's the cost of shipping. "Let's say there are five regularly scheduled cargo planes that leave Bogota for Miami and New York every night," Mr. Lebberes said. "They fly north with flowers and return south with other cargo. Now suddenly for Valentine's Day you need to charter another 15 planes, and those planes fly back empty, because there's no corresponding increase in demand for southbound cargo. So each one of those roses is costing you a round-trip ticket."
When you add these wholesale costs to the extra expenses at the retail level, like overtime pay for employees, the 33-percent increase doesn't sound unreasonable. In fact, it may reflect a phenomenon that economists call the "good-will factor."
This phenomenon was demonstrated after Hurricane Andrew hit Miami in 1992 and created a shortage of plywood. Lumber companies refused to raise their prices, forgoing an easy profit because they were afraid they'd offend their long-term customers.
New York's florists presumably show some of the same restraint on Valentine's Day to maintain their customers' good will. With more careful investigation next year, Mr. Polontesky could probably call a press conference the week of Valentine Day's and announce that rose prices are too low. That may not sound immediately appealing to him. But it would definitely be newsworthy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSUMER LAW (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FLORISTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); RETAILERS (78%); THANKSGIVING (64%); PRICE INCREASES (57%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



234 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: For a 2d Year, Governor Promises 'Cranky Yankees' a Tax Rebate

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the budget address today by Gov. John G. Rowland to a joint session of the Connecticut General Assembly, as recorded by The New York Times. The address is given every two years.
The hard-working people of this state have retooled Connecticut for the challenges of the next century. Confidence in the future is high. The business climate is strong. The job market is better than it has ever been before. And state government has done its part. We've done it through steady, reliable efforts to control spending, to reduce taxes, to encourage development, to reform the welfare system, to invest in education and to protect the environment. These are all efforts that every single one of us can be proud of, and I thank you. 
 Some people like to refer to people from this area as "cranky Yankees." And perhaps our plain, stubborn refusal to accept defeat has allowed us to survive the economic turmoil of the first half of this decade. I like to call it Yankee ingenuity. The progress of the last five years has showcased our ability to adapt in a world our grandparents and perhaps even our parents could never have imagined. . . .
Our challenge is to be willing to constantly look for better ways to improve services, to plan for the future, to avoid making government an obstacle to the aspirations of the people. All of which, I might add, is easier said than done.
The greatest challenge we face in the years ahead is controlling the growth of government spending. As our economy continues to grow and to gain momentum, the worst thing that state government can do is abandon the tight-fisted control that we have maintained during the 1990's. At the same time, we need to keep our commitments to the investments that we have made in Connecticut's future: commitments to rebuild our system of higher education, to new school construction, to the redevelopment of our major cities. These commitments stand, and they must stand, because they are the best hope that we have, all of us, to insure that Connecticut's place as a land of opportunity remains for all its citizens.
The budget that I present to you today holds no surprises, because it's based on the principles that I have applied in each of the last four years: low spending growth, long-term investment in education, long-term investment in our cities, a constant effort to improve government to respond to the needs of today, and a continued effort to cut taxes, whenever and wherever possible. . . .
This year's projected surplus is a clear sign that the people of Connecticut have once again been overtaxed. So I am proposing that we use at least $80 million of this year's surplus to issue Connecticut's second consecutive income-tax rebate. If it was a good idea last year, then it's a good idea this year. For those who argued last year that it was an election-year gimmick, here's your chance to prove that theory wrong. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX INCENTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (57%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



235 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Budget Offers Tax Credits and Rebates

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Setting a course his aides call "responsible Republicanism," Gov. John G. Rowland proposed a two-year Connecticut budget today that takes advantage of the galloping economy by giving taxpayers a rebate for a second year in a row, but aims to eliminate two state offices that he considers wasteful.
Governor Rowland proposed income-tax credits for tuition and property tax payments, but did not seek a cut in the state income tax rate. Democrats have opposed such a cut, saying that could create problems when the economy turns down. The omission was a reminder that Mr. Rowland has abandoned his drive to eliminate the income tax, which was a campaign pledge when he was first elected governor in 1994. 
 "The greatest challenge we face in the years ahead is controlling the growth of government spending," he said during today's address to a joint session of the State Senate and House of Representatives. "As our economy continues to grow and to gain momentum, the worst thing that state government can do is abandon the tight-fisted control that we have maintained during the 1990's."
Democrats, who control both houses of the state legislature, said the new budget incorporates so many of their priorities that there was an odd dynamic on the floor, with Democrats embarrassed to be clapping so much and Republicans aghast at the largess the Governor was dispensing. The scene reflected the delicate line the current crop of moderate Republican governors has to tread as they try to ease their party toward the center without losing the conservatives who are the party's backbone.
Governor Rowland did pick one political fight, proposing elimination of the state's eight high sheriffs, Connecticut's last vestige of county government. Under Governor Rowland's plan, which would be put to voters as a constitutional amendment, sheriffs would no longer be elected, and their duties -- transporting prisoners, maintaining court security and serving legal papers -- would be absorbed into the state bureaucracy.
The sheriffs, currently five Democrats and three Republicans, have also traditionally been part of the state's political machines, aiding with fund-raising and get-out-the-vote efforts. Governor Rowland said he wants to "end the influence of patronage and favoritism in an agency with a public safety mission." When Governor Rowland originally misspoke and said his change would eliminate "patriotism" instead of "patronage," legislators cackled merrily. He continued with a chuckle, "Some here may suggest that."
Sticking to the moderate themes that helped him win re-election overwhelmingly in November, Governor Rowland devoted about half of his speech to plans for making schools better and colleges more affordable. The Governor was in a celebratory mood, quoting President Franklin D. Roosevelt and for the first time crediting a Democrat, Comptroller Nancy S. Wyman, with inspiring last year's income tax rebate.
Some in his party hope Governor Rowland will be considered as a Vice-Presidential candidate next year, and his budget is in sync with the "compassionate conservatism" of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, whom Mr. Rowland endorsed this week for the party's Presidential nomination. The Senate majority leader, George C. Jepsen of Stamford, said Governor Rowland "both as a matter of policy and politics is finding it more comfortable in the middle than he was parked out on the right."
One Democratic leader even suggested that Mr. Rowland had become a born-again big spender. Representative William R. Dyson, a Democrat from New Haven who is a co-chairman of the Appropriations Committee, which will now consider the budget, said he would work to reduce the spending increase in the budget, 4 percent in the first year and 4.8 percent the second year, to the rate of inflation, which is between 1 and 2 percent. "I assumed that would be the standard," Mr. Dyson said. "At the moment our revenues decrease, we're up a creek here."
Democrats also said they would try to tilt spending toward longer-term solutions in education, health care and job training. "There is a lot of spending, but it's on existing programs," said the Senate President pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan of West Hartford. "Going into the new millennium, the status quo is not good enough."
The proposed budget is $11.6 billion for the fiscal year beginning July 1 and $12.1 billion for the year after that. A final version is due before adjournment on June 9.
The plank that was most surprising to legislators was a state income- tax credit for tuition paid to public or private colleges in Connecticut. The program, which piggybacks on a similar Federal credit, offers families 15 percent off their state tax return, up to $225 for each student. The combination of the tax credit and a freeze on tuition at state colleges would save the average freshman at the University of Connecticut or Connecticut State University $1,800 during four years.
The income tax rebate, which meant an average check of $75 to $120 for 955,000 households last year, will benefit about 200,000 fewer taxpayers this year, because people who owe no taxes after taking tax credits will not be eligible. The change will reduce the cost to the state from $103 million to $80 million.
Senator Sullivan said the change would punish low- and middle-income taxpayers. He said Democrats are likely to approve the rebate, but only if rebates are restored to those taxpayers. Senator Sullivan said Democrats would probably accept 85 to 90 percent of Governor Rowland's budget.
Adopting an idea that long has been pushed by Democrats, Governor Rowland proposed increasing the income-tax credit for property taxes from $350 to $400. "My fundamental tax policy is cut taxes whenever and wherever you can," he said.
Showing his conservative roots, Governor Rowland is seeking to transfer the functions of the Department of Higher Education to the Department of Education, an idea that he has proposed and the legislature has rejected before. He said few jobs would be lost in the merger. "Rather than spending more money on bureaucracy, let's spend it on the students," he said.
Governor Rowland also recommended that most University of Connecticut professors teach one more course each year, which he said would save the state $2.3 million in the first three years.
Governor Rowland, who was criticized during the campaign for his stewardship of the Department of Children and Families, asked for more employees and training for the agency. "The protection of children is the one area I will spare no expense," he said.
Borrowing a device pioneered by President Reagan and now a staple of State of the Union Messages, Governor Rowland pointed toward the front row to salute four citizens who came to the rescue of three state troopers who were shot and wounded in Willington in September.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland, right, was greeted yesterday by Mark Ojakian, Connecticut's deputy comptroller, as the Governor entered the General Assembly. He proposed spending $11.6 billion in the next fiscal year. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Spending Money"
How Gov. John G. Rowland plans to spend his proposed budget for their next two fiscal years; chart shows what percentage the money will be divided into for education, health, corrections, etc. (Source: Office of Policy and Management)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); COUNTIES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



236 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Tax-subsidized savings may not work out as many hope.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein

 BODY:
THE Democrats, trying to blunt furious tax cutting by Republicans, are flocking to limited tax proposals aimed at promoting individual saving. President Clinton's budget proposes tax subsidies to underwrite the cost of setting up private accounts for workers. Senator Robert C. Torricelli, a Democrat of New Jersey, this week proposed, along with Senator Paul D. Coverdell, a Republican from Georgia, tax breaks on interest, dividends and capital gains. Though politically deft, these plans are economically suspect.
The Administration hopes its plan will deflect attention away from Republican proposals to create private retirement accounts as part of Social Security and to achieve a huge 10 percent across-the-board tax cut. Large tax cuts, say the Democrats, are fiscally reckless because budget surpluses are only temporary Besides, the Democrats argue, across-the-board tax cuts only sound fair. Instead, they overwhelmingly reward the high-income families who pay the bulk of taxes. 
 But if tax-subsidized savings accounts are a sound political device, they are a shaky economic device. Mr. Clinton's plan purports to increase the savings of America's many nonsaving families, but no one knows how to make the idea work in practice. Senator Torricelli's plan, many economists argue, would provide little more than a consumption holiday for higher-income families and do virtually nothing to achieve its stated goal of rebuilding the nation's low savings rate.
Even Jonathan Skinner of Dartmouth College, whose research backs the use of targeted tax breaks to increase savings, describes the Torricelli-Coverdell plan as "wrong means to achieve a laudable goal."
In the United States, the personal savings rate is pathetically low, hovering in recent months around zero. Low personal savings pose two important threats.
For the economy at large, a low savings rate can lead to a low investment rate, leaving the future economy bereft of the factories, equipment and technologies it needs to create high-wage jobs. Low wages would intensify the burden on workers of supporting the growing ranks of retirees. But Mr. Skinner warns that tax-based savings incentives can do little to solve this problem.
Consider, he says, what would happen if, magically, tax subsidies encouraged every household to save an additional $1,000. Under that implausibly rosy scenario, national savings would rise by about $100 billion, or 1.5 percent of aggregate income. That, says Mr. Skinner, would "hardly make a dent in returning the personal savings rate to around 7 percent, the level it hit in the 1970's."
The second problem posed by low saving rates is distributional. Half the population lacks an employer-based pension plan. Perhaps 40 percent have no financial assets to fall back on during retirement. Mr. Skinner points to studies that show for many of these families, consumption plummets by 40 or 50 percent once they retire.
Mr. Clinton's plan does at least address the plight of low-saving families with modest incomes. He would create savings accounts of, say, $100 for workers. In addition, the Government would match a portion of each extra dollar that workers add to these savings accounts. Low-income families would receive a higher Government contribution than would middle-income families.
William Gale of the Brookings Institution applauds its potential. "One hundred dollars invested every year for, say, 40 years could amount to $10,000 by the time a worker retires," Mr. Gale said. "If the worker contributes another $100, matched by Government, the nest egg at retirement could total $30,000."
But Mr. Gale warns against undue optimism. How would the Government prevent families from borrowing on their credit cards to deposit money into the tax-advantaged accounts? Would Congress let people invade their retirement accounts for pressing needs like a medical catastrophe or college tuition? If so, would retirement saving rise at all, or would the proposal act as a trigger for one claim after another on the accounts, including the money the Government contributed?
What's worse, Mr. Torricelli's proposal shows how quickly the impulse to subsidize savings can go haywire. The plan, among other things, would provide a tax exemption for the first $500 of interest and dividend earnings and for the first $5,000 of capital gains.
But Prof. Alan Auerbach of the University of California at Berkeley says it would backfire. The plan cuts taxes on the initial amounts of interest, dividends and capital gains that people earn. In other words, it rewards families for their existing levels of saving. But because the tax savings do not rise as interest, dividend and capital gains earnings rise, the proposal does nothing to persuade people to save more than they already are. "The full benefit of the Torricelli plan goes only to those above the 15 percent bracket and who already have substantial investment earnings," Professor Auerbach said. "Those least in need would benefit the most."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (54%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (54%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



237 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Shows Some Stability, Though Concerns Remain

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Stocks meandered narrowly yesterday as bargain hunters stabilized some battered high-technology issues even as most Internet companies continued to slide.
The Nasdaq finished virtually unchanged, down 1.29 points, to 2,309.5, following Tuesday's third-worst-ever drubbing in point terms. But the performance offered little reassurance that the 8 percent retreat from its Feb. 1 record close has ended. 
 Nor did analysts take much encouragement from a bounce in the session's final half-hour that lifted the Dow Jones industrials and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to gains of about six-tenths of 1 percent.
"We're a little concerned that earnings expectations are a little high and valuations are full," said John W. Ballen, chief strategist at MFS Investment Management in Boston. In coming weeks, he said, "You could have a pretty choppy market."
Analysts also expressed concern about the relative paucity of stocks moving higher of late and a persistent erosion among a large number of lesser issues. For example, both the Standard & Poor's 400 index of midsize stocks and the S.& P. 600 index of small-capitalization stocks slumped yesterday and are down more than 8 percent so far this year.
The S.& P. 500, by contrast, which includes I.B.M., Intel, Cisco and other high-technology heavyweights, is down less than one-half of 1 percent so far in 1999.
Competition from rising interest rates is also troubling stock investors, said Mary Farrell of Paine Webber. "It's backed the market into a trading range," she said.
At the close, the Dow's blue-chip industrials showed a gain of 44.28 points, to 9,177.31, with a 6 1/8-point surge in I.B.M. to 168 7/8 accounting for 60 percent of it. J. P. Morgan was the second-biggest contributor, rising 3 5/16 , to 103 13/16 .
Philip Morris, which lost a lawsuit involving a California smoker, was the Dow's biggest drag, off 3 15/16 , to 41 7/16 , on volume of 25.4 million shares.
Many Internet stocks were lower, partly on disappointment that Lycos commanded less than expected in the buyout deal announced on Tuesday. Lycos tumbled another 7, to 87 1/4, after trading as low as 77. Amazon.com fell 2 9/16 , to 97 7/16 , bringing its five-day loss to 22.5 percent.
Microsoft inched up 9/16 , to 160 5/8 , as its chief financial officer, Gregory B. Maffei, told a Goldman, Sachs technology conference in New York that he found skidding prices for Internet stocks a boon as his company explored acquisitions and partnerships in this area.
Elizabeth Bramwell, president of Bramwell Capital Management, said on returning from the conference that the mood was "really upbeat" and added that she was skeptical about a widely shared prediction of a lull in computer-related business following the surge from addressing the Year 2000 computer clock problem.
"It looks as if it will continue to be rolling past 2000," she said, with electronic commerce becoming "an enormous business."
Drug stocks, often a haven for nervous investors, were mostly higher by large fractions yesterday, with Pfizer up 1 3/4 at 126 3/4 and Pharmacia & Upjohn, which reported sharply higher fourth-quarter profits, up 1 1/2 at 54 1/4.
On the New York Stock Exchange, declines outnumbered advances 1,855 to 1,177, with only 19 stocks at new highs and 95 at new lows. Volume was relatively light for the third day in a row, at 721.7 million shares.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bonds Fall Further
 (By Bloomberg News)
Bond prices fell for the sixth time in the last eight sessions yesterday on concern that investor demand is satiated after two Treasury debt sales, leaving little appetite for the auction today.
The benchmark 30-year bond fell 29/32 , to a price of 98 11/32 , pushing its yield up 6 basis points, to 5.36 percent.
The Treasury sold $10 billion of notes due in November 2008 at 4.913 percent, about a basis point less than expected. Investors bid for 2.04 times the amount of notes for sale, higher than at the auction in November -- when those notes were first sold -- though below average for the previous 10 sales.
The issue followed a $15 billion five-year note auction on Tuesday. With today's $10 billion sale of 30-year bonds, the Treasury's quarterly debt auctions are complete.
 
Results of the 10-year auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.735
High Yield . . . 4.913%
Low Yield . . . 4.830%
Median Yield . . . 4.884%
Total applied for . . . $22,043,514
Accepted . . . $11,592,934
Noncompetitive . . . $62,414
Interest set at . . . 4 3/4%
 
The 10-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2008.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Jan. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GREGORY B MAFFEI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



238 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Reno Pilots Locked in Dispute Over Seniority at American

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: RENO, Feb. 10

 BODY:
To hear American Airlines pilots tell it, they called in sick and disrupted the airline's operations in order to quickly raise the salaries of Reno Air pilots to American's level.
But the pilots at Reno, which was acquired by American in December, are not entirely grateful. Indeed, the Reno Air pilots are locked in a sometimes bitter, though less publicized, dispute with the American pilots. 
Many Reno pilots support the American pilots in their labor dispute, which appears to have ended at least temporarily today, though they are not participating themselves. And they will welcome the higher salaries that being an American employee will bring.
But they object to the proposal by American Air pilots to "staple" the roughly 300 Reno pilots to the bottom seniority list of American's more than 9,000 pilots, as if the Reno pilots were all freshly hired on Dec. 23, 1998, the day American acquired the airline. Some of the Reno pilots are putting "no stapler" stickers on their luggage, showing a stapler inside the red circle with a slash through it.
"We should not have all our years of service and the quality of life that represents ripped away from us," said Bob Collins, a Reno Air pilot who is also a spokesman for the local branch of the Air Line Pilots Association, the airline's current union. "Many of us are in the last years of our career here and we shouldn't be treated as new hires."
Reno senior pilots make an average of $65,000 to $75,000 a year, less than half that of American pilots with equivalent experience. Although American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, has proposed raising the salaries of the Reno pilots to its own pilots' levels in 12 months to 18 months, the American pilots' union wants those salaries raised now.
But for most Reno pilots, their salaries will not double because they would have less seniority at American. Captains at Reno will become second-ranking first officers or even third-ranking flight engineers, which carry lower pay than captains. Mr. Collins, a captain, for instance, expects his salary to climb to $100,000 a year from $75,000. Lower seniority also means poorer choices of flights, vacations and home bases, meaning many Reno pilots will have to move from this city.
Mr. Collins also complained that his union had not been able to participate in discussions between American and the Allied Pilots Association, the union that now represents the American pilots and that will represent the Reno pilots. "Allied Pilots have basically closed the door on us," he said.
Drew Engelke, a first officer at American Airlines, said the issue of seniority was "under negotiation." He said the union's proposal was that the Reno pilots' length of service would count toward their pay and benefits, although not toward their seniority ranking.
But some American pilots apparently think the Reno pilots are ingrates, in that Reno might have gone out of existence if American had not bought it. "We're going to give you a raise, keep your job and you're asking for the moon," said an anonymous phone call left on the Reno union's voice mail, one of several obscene and harassing phone calls the union says it has received.
The disruption in air traffic spurred by the acquisition of Reno Air is just the latest chapter in the history of the small low-cost airline, which struggled for most of its seven years. Indeed, judging by the disruptions this week, Reno has had a bigger impact on air travel now than ever. Started in 1992 with one leased plane and 150 employees, Reno has expanded to 25 planes and 2,000 employees.
"We accepted lower salaries to get the airline off the ground," said Richard J. Vitzthum, a 47-year-old Reno captain who was the sixth pilot hired.
He said Reno promised that pilot salaries would be raised once the airline became profitable. But for the most part, it was plagued by heavy losses, frequent strategy shifts and service problems. Last February, some 65 percent of callers to its reservation system hung up in frustration before they could get through to an agent.
That same month, Joseph O'Gorman, a retired United Airlines executive, took over as Reno's president. He cut the work force by 15 percent, eliminated unprofitable routes and replaced all 11 senior executives with five of his own choosing. Profits returned. But Mr. O'Gorman decided Reno needed a big partner.
American bought Reno for $124 million to bolster its presence on the West Coast. While American has a strong east-to-west routes, including as San Francisco to New York, it has virtually no north-to-south flights in the West.
The California market is dominated by Southwest Airlines and by United, a unit of the UAL Corporation. United set up a low-priced shuttle service and uses those short flights to feed its cross-country and cross-Pacific flights. Without north-south flights, American could not do this.
"Customers who fly up and down the coast every week may occasionally fly transcontinental and they are inclined to use the same carrier," said Donald P. O'Hare, a 40-year employee of American Airlines, who took over last week as the new president of Reno from Mr. O'Gorman, who left after the takeover was completed.
Mr. O'Hare, who has embarked on a whirlwind trip to meet Reno employees in 16 cities, said almost all Reno workers would be offered jobs at American, though the airline's headquarters in Reno would close and some people might have to move. The Reno name is expected to be discontinued.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pay Grades" plots the average work month, in hours, for American Airlines and Reno Air, from 1 to 30 years worked. (Source: Aviation Information Resources)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: RENO AIR INC (RNO); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (65%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENO AIR INC (RNO); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRCRAFT PILOTS (94%); AIRLINES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



239 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Air Travel To Remain Backed Up

BYLINE: ByEDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Even if American Airlines pilots return to work quickly after a Federal judge's order yesterday to end their five-day sickout that grounded 2,500 flights, travelers can still expect inconvenience and disruption during this coming long weekend.
Still, even a temporary settlement cannot come too soon for airlines, passengers, cruise lines, hotels and residents of the Caribbean, which depends heavily on tourism for economic survival. 
 "This strike was serious stuff, because this is one of the biggest weeks of the year for Caribbean travel and American is the biggest airline in the region," said Michael Youngman, executive director of the Caribbean Tourism Organization. "So even a tentative settlement is an enormous relief."
Effective immediately, American customers can obtain a full refund on all tickets -- including nonrefundable tickets -- they can postpone or reschedule flights without service charge or penalty, and when flights are canceled, American said it would try to accommodate customers on other American flights or on other carriers.
The cruise industry was sweating out the possibility that many passengers booked on cruises from southern Florida this weekend could not get to Miami or Fort Lauderdale on time. "We have 21,500 passengers booked from Miami, Fort Lauderdale and San Juan on nine ships this weekend, and an equal number going home," said Rich Steck, the spokesman in Miami for Royal Caribbean and Celebrity Cruises. "So you can probably hear our sigh of relief about the settlement all the way up in New York."
Most business travelers apparently avoided major dislocations during the sickout, said Norman Sherlock, executive director of the National Business Travel Association. "But corporate members have told me they're going to recast their future travel plans," he said, "so as not to be so dependent on American or any single airline."
Some travel agents viewed the sickout as further evidence of the importance of their services, which are threatened by erosion from the Internet. Rudi Steele, owner of a travel agency in Dallas, did some juggling to get two clients to Los Angeles in time to catch a flight to Hong Kong in order to board a cruise ship. "I got them on a late night flight the night before to Ontario, Calif.," Mr. Steele said, "put them up in a hotel and booked a rental car for them to drive to L.A. in the morning." He added, "That's what a professional travel agent will do for clients."
Michael Boult, vice president for supplier relations at Rosenbluth International, added that while the Internet might be fun for surfing for information, it was of little help in a crisis. "Try calling the Internet and complaining that your flight's been canceled," he said. Early on, Rosenbluth sent a "Flash Fax" to corporate accounts, telling them of the flight cancellations and promising to keep them informed. "Because there were good alternatives early in the strike," Mr. Boult said, "we were able to avoid any serious disruptions."
Airlines say they will do all they can to accommodate stranded American passengers, but added that they do not have spare planes to press into service, as is often believed. Moreover, work rules and airport regulations prevent the scheduling of additional flights except in unusual circumstances.
American Airlines booked more than 1,000 hotel rooms in Miami on Tuesday for stranded passengers, but by and large, the strike seemed to be a mixed blessing for hotels, with no-shows offsetting the number of guests who extended their stay after their flights were canceled. However, the sickout hurt the 1,369-room Hyatt Regency D/FW hotel at the Dallas/Fort Worth airport. "Fifty percent of our business is small meetings, booked 10 to 14 days in advance," said Steve Trent, the hotel's general manager. "We've had cancellations, and we stood to lose a lot more business if the strike continued, because this is a busy season for conventions in Dallas."
When he learned of the judge's order to end the sickout, Mr. Trent had a one-word reaction: "Hallelujah!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (57%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (57%); CARIBBEAN TOURISM ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS CRUISES (91%); AIRLINES (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); EROSION (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



240 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: U.S. JUDGE ORDERS PILOTS IN SICKOUT TO RETURN TO JOB

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
A Federal judge ordered pilots at American Airlines to return to work yesterday, apparently ending five days of widespread disruptions that had grounded more than 2,500 flights, inconvenienced tens of thousands of passengers and left businesses scrambling to find other carriers for their cargo.
The order came none too soon for American, the country's second-largest carrier, which was forced to cancel nearly 1,000, or 44 percent, of its 2,250 daily flights yesterday. It was the worst day yet since hundreds of pilots began calling in sick on Saturday in a dispute over American's recent purchase of Reno Air, a small airline in the West. Without the court's intervention, the dispute threatened to disrupt travel during the Presidents' Day weekend, when flights at most airlines are expected to be full. 
 American said that it expected most of the pilots to return to work. Nonetheless, it said that it would still have to cancel several hundred flights today because of the lingering effects of the disruption. The airline said it expected service to be back to normal by the weekend. It also announced that passengers affected by this week's cancellations could reschedule their flights without penalty or receive full refunds. Page C4.
At a hearing in Dallas yesterday, Judge Joe Kendall of United States District Court castigated both the company, which had sought the court order, and the Allied Pilots Association, the union that represents American's 9,200 pilots.
Chiding them for not settling the dispute on their own, he said: "It's silly for us to even be here. It's like killing a gnat with a sledgehammer."
"If you would look up bad labor relations in the dictionary, you would have an American Airlines logo beside it," he added.
But after listening to both sides, he agreed that the sickout was a violation of the 1934 Railway Labor Act, which severely restricts strikes in the airline industry. He ordered the pilots to return to the cockpit, warning them that he would hold them in contempt if they did not.
Union leaders vowed to abide by the order, which barred the pilots association from making any concerted efforts to encourage pilots to call in sick or otherwise withhold their services. But union officials have contended all along that the sickout was a grass-roots protest that they did not control.
There were 2,077 pilots out sick yesterday, American said. Normally about 400 are on the sick list.
"We are going to scrupulously comply with the order," said Brian Mayhew, a captain and vice president of the union. "That will not remove the elements of frustration and anger that is in the pilot group as a result of the fact that the company is not addressing our core concerns in the negotiations."
The dispute between American and the pilots centers on how American integrates Reno Air, the carrier in Nevada that American bought in December for $124 million. American said it would take a year to 18 months to integrate Reno's 25 airplanes and 300 pilots into its operations. But the union says that American is violating its contract with the union, which requires all flying at the airline to be done by its members. It demands that American integrate Reno faster and pay all pilots as if the merger has been completed.
American Airlines terminals at airports nationwide were largely quiet yesterday, though passengers continued to complain of long delays and poor service from American Airlines personnel. The airline estimated that about 90,000 passengers were inconvenienced by yesterday's cancellations and said that it was doing its best to accommodate passengers from canceled flights on later departures or on rival airlines.
Among the flights canceled at Kennedy International Airport in New York yesterday were five to San Francisco, two to Los Angeles and two to London's Heathrow Airport.
Peter Koumers said he had waited on the telephone for two hours Tuesday night to try to find out the status of his trip to the British Virgin Islands before finally giving up. He and his wife, Jackie, arrived at Kennedy from their home on Long Island yesterday morning with their two daughters, ages 1 and 3, only to find that their 11:30 A.M. flight to Puerto Rico had been canceled. American then booked them on a Tower Air flight departing at 11 P.M.
"We spent 60 bucks to get here in the limo with all the luggage and the girls," he said. "Now they're going nuts. It's definitely a hassle, but we're going to go anyway."
Karla Speed, a caterer from Dallas, and her husband got as far as Miami's airport on their way to Costa Rica to celebrate their first wedding anniversary. After spending the night in a hotel, they were hoping to get on a 6 P.M. flight yesterday.
"We had planned a very expensive trip in a resort and we got a honeymoon suite booked after lots of trouble," she said. "Now it's all ruined. I'm breaking out in hives."
Passengers were not the only ones inconvenienced. Businesses that use American to ship goods around the globe had to make other arrangements, often at a higher cost. Especially hard hit were shipments to Latin America, where American is by far the dominant carrier.
Yesterday's court order still leaves open the dispute over how American will integrate Reno Air. The smaller carrier has been a source of irritation to American's pilots since it was founded in the early 1990's, plying routes abandoned by American when it was suffering record losses.
American laid off several hundred pilots because of the cuts and sold frequent-flier miles to Reno. The union saw the move as an underhanded way for American to lower its costs.
Donald J. Carty, the chairman and chief executive of the AMR Corporation, American's parent, had said that he thought the purchase of Reno would eliminate the ill will and shore up American's presence in the West.
But the Reno purchase only made the pilots more suspicious after Mr. Carty said it would take a year to 18 months to integrate the two carriers. They worry that he intends to keep Reno, which pays its senior pilots less than half of what their counterparts earn at American, as a low-cost airline operating alongside American. And they want to establish a precedent for mergers in case American buys a larger carrier.
The two sides talked on Tuesday but made little progress, the pilots said. They were supposed to talk again yesterday but met in court instead. Though Judge Kendall's order bars pilots from calling in sick in large numbers, it does not order them to be enthusiastic and energetic employees. They can still upset American's operations by scrupulously obeying work rules or refusing to volunteer for extra flying, something on which the airline depends.
"It is doubtful that voluntary overtime will return to normal," Mr. Mayhew said, "until there is a negotiated settlement."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Philip, leaning over, from South Africa, waits at Kennedy International Airport in New York to get re-booked on a flight to Miami. American Airlines canceled 40 percent of its flights yesterday. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (54%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (54%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COURTS AND JUDGES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); JUDGES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



241 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: For Pataki's Democratic Allies, Budget Means Reward Time

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 10

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki announced his relatively frugal budget the other day, he drew the usual catcalls from Democrats hoping to depict him as the Scrooge of the Statehouse. But the plan elicited mostly smiles from one faction of the Democratic Party's leaders: those who endorsed Mr. Pataki for re-election last fall.
While the Governor proposed freezing or cutting one type of local aid to nearly every city, he called for a 36 percent increase for Buffalo, whose Mayor, Anthony Masiello, was one of the most prominent Democrats to support the Republican Governor. Niagara Falls received an extra 25 percent; its Mayor, James C. Galie, was another Democratic defector. 
 A third Mayor, Edward A. Hanna of Utica, who not only backed Mr. Pataki last year but then became a Republican, did not receive more of this aid but is expecting a sizable chunk of a $5 million fund that the Governor put in the budget to help localities demolish buildings to spur development.
Two Democratic State Senators from New York City who endorsed Mr. Pataki, Olga A. Mendez and Alton R. Waldon Jr., are also slated to get more money for their districts, particularly from a new pool of at least $200,000 that the Governor wants to spend on asthma prevention and treatment.
Rewarding allies with cupfuls from the honey pot of the state treasury is an Albany custom, and one of the best times to view it is after a gubernatorial election, when politicians around the state seek recompense from the winner for their labors on the stump. These budget items stand out even more this year because Mr. Pataki is pledging a new lean regimen for the state, including an overall increase in spending of just 1.8 percent.
The modest growth in the proposed budget, which comes as the state has a surplus of more than $2 billion, has infuriated some lawmakers and local officials, including New York City's Mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. Giuliani is a Republican who supported the Governor this time (though not in 1994), but the Mayor maintains that the budget did him no favors and would be disastrous for his city. The Governor has staunchly disputed that assertion.
New York City does not receive the kind of aid that Mr. Pataki sharply raised for Buffalo and Niagara Falls, but in general, the Governor proposed that the city's share of the state budget remain flat.
Pataki administration officials demur when asked about budget items that appear intended for Democrats who endorsed the Governor, saying he has called for selective major new spending where most needed, ignoring political considerations. "We have put the resources where we can have the most effect," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki.
Mr. McKeon denied that Democratic mayors or legislators had endorsed Mr. Pataki last fall in return for promises of government largess after the election. "The reason why these people supported the Governor was because his policies have made cities stronger and our streets safer and kept the economy growing," Mr. McKeon said.
The Legislature still has to approve the budget, and lawmakers could force changes that could subvert the Governor's choices. In fact, some items for his Democratic cadre might not fare so well with the Democratic majority in the Assembly, where the hostility to Mr. Pataki is about equal to the resentment toward Democrats who backed him.
Though the items were deep in the budget and have not attracted much attention, some loyalist Democratic lawmakers were quick to denounce them and say they would come under scrutiny in the negotiations with the Pataki administration.
"If the Governor is in fact doing what a number of us suspect, he is playing a pretty dangerous game of urban aid based on who supported him," said Assemblyman Joseph D. Morelle, a Democrat from Rochester, who complained that the Governor had slighted Rochester in the budget. "It is intended to have a chilling effect on mayors who are exercising their political views, to make sure that they are not very vocal."
The Democrats who supported the Governor said they had nothing to apologize for, asserting that it was their duty to do everything possible to obtain money from Albany for their areas.
Mayor Masiello of Buffalo had several conversations with Mr. Pataki as he was fashioning the budget in an effort to persuade him to raise the amount of aid, but a spokesman for Mr. Masiello said his involvement in the gubernatorial campaign played no role in their talks.
The spokesman, Peter K. Cutler, said the Mayor made his case to Mr. Pataki that Buffalo was managing its money better but needed more help from the state.
"For anybody to criticize the receipt of general-fund appropriations as based on political paybacks is misguided," Mr. Cutler said. "We reject that."
Mayor Galie of Niagara Falls did not respond to two telephone messages left at his office seeking comment.
Mayor Hanna of Utica, an outspoken Pataki booster, acknowledged that maintaining good relations with Mr. Pataki might give his city more access to aid. "How much are you going to get from a governor if you knock him?" said Mr. Hanna, who garnered a $1 million state grant for a recreation center in Utica last year around the same time that he was endorsing Mr. Pataki. "That's just human nature."
Senators Mendez and Waldon said they had been assailed by some Democrats for crossing party lines, but had no regrets.
"It was not a quid pro quo," Mr. Waldon said. "But I am sophisticated enough to know that when you are friendly to someone, on occasion that friendship is returned."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buffalo's Democratic Mayor, Anthony Masielo, right, greeted Gov. George E. Pataki and his running mate for lieutenant governor, Mary O. Donohue, during one of the Republican Governor's campaign swings last fall. (Bill Wippert/The Buffalo News)(pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); NIAGARA FALLS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); NIAGARA FALLS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); ASTHMA (51%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



242 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
Pentagon Questioning Risks and Goals in Kosovo
Senior Pentagon officials are raising serious concerns about sending American troops into Kosovo without clear-cut military goals, even as NATO contemplates sending peacekeepers there. A9
 
The toughest arguments of the Kosovo peace conference so far have been among the hosts, not the Albanian and Serbian delegates. A8 

Serbs returned the bodies of 40 Kosovo villagers to their families. A8
 
Lender Faults Role in Indonesia
The World Bank has concluded that its own officials turned a blind eye to Indonesian corruption, growing repression and a collapsing financial system in the final years of President Suharto's 33-year rule. A15
 
Indonesian Rebel Leader Moved
Alexandre Gusmao, the East Timor independence leader, has been transferred from a prison to a barred and guarded house. Mr. Gusmao said he now expected to play a full role in international negotiations over whether East Timor, a former Portuguese colony, is to become independent or remain linked to Indonesia. A16
 
Restrictions in Malaysian Trial
The judge in the corruption trial of the ousted Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, has ruled that the news media may not publish statements made in court by Mr. Anwar about the Prime Minister or the chief of police. A17
 
Britain Plans Curb on Welfare
Prime Minister Tony Blair has introduced legislation that would require most welfare recipients to attend regular interviews to discuss job opportunities. People who failed to comply could lose their benefits. A10
 
Iraqi Official to Visit Turkey
The Government of Saddam Hussein announced that its Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, would visit Turkey next week. A statement from the Foreign Ministry said Mr. Aziz would arrive in Ankara on Monday for "high-level discussions regarding Iraq and the Turkey-Iraq relationship." A6
 
American and British warplanes attacked air-defense sites in Iraq after three waves of Iraqi MIG jets flew deep into the "no flight" zone over southern Iraq. The attacks ended a weeklong lull in the fighting. A5
 
Deadly Avalanche in France
Rescue workers used dogs and sensors in a search for survivors of avalanches that swallowed mountain chalets and killed at least 10 people near the popular ski resort of Chamonix. A11
 
U.S. Accused in Border Deaths
An international human rights complaint asserts that United States border policies have brought about hundreds of deaths of illegal immigrants who cross the border in California's desert mountains, where they freeze or die of thirst. A13
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A20-31
 
Republican Unity Cracks, And Censure Effort Ebbs
Republican support for the conviction of President Clinton began to crack, and an effort to censure the President was virtually dead. Three Republican Senators said they would vote against both articles of impeachment. Two others said they would vote for the obstruction-of-justice charge but against the perjury charge, all but assuring that the perjury article would not receive a simple majority of 51 votes. Votes are expected today or tomorrow. A1
 
President Clinton is so furious at House Republicans over his impeachment, his advisers said, that he has vowed to mount an all-out offensive against many of his foes and win back the House for Democrats. A1
 
The Senate will begin hearings on Feb. 24 on whether to reauthorize the independent counsel law. A28
 
G.O.P. Accused of Meddling
The Census Bureau director, Kenneth Prewitt, criticized Congressional Republicans for what he described as their efforts to "micromanage" preparations for the 2000 census. A23
 
Record Award in Smoking Case
A California jury has awarded $51.5 million to a woman who says her inoperable lung cancer was caused by more than 35 years of smoking cigarettes, primarily the Marlboro brand of Philip Morris, which the jury said must pay the damages. A1
 
Challenge to Miranda Ruling
Prosecutors, defense lawyers and legal experts across the country said a Federal appeals court's decision in Virginia on Monday offered the most serious challenge yet to the Supreme Court's Miranda ruling on suspects' rights since it was issued in 1966. A24
 
Modest Gains in Reading Levels
The Clinton Administration reported modest gains in student performance on reading tests but said they were significant because the increase had reversed a downturn that occurred in the early 1990's. A22
 
Plan to Burn Leaking Ship
Coast Guard officials, hoping to prevent wider environmental damage, decided to set fire to a 639-foot cargo ship that ran aground and was leaking oil about 150 yards off the coast of southern Oregon. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
Pataki's Budget Helps Democrats Who Aided Him
Some Democrats who endorsed Governor Pataki for re-election last fall fared well in his budget proposal. A spokesman for Mr. Pataki, who is a Republican, rejected suggestions that Democratic mayors and legislators were promised more money for their districts in exchange for endorsements. B1
 
Decision Due on Plea or Trial
A Dutchess County judge is expected to decide as early as today whether to accept the guilty plea of a Poughkeepsie, N.Y., man accused of killing eight prostitutes or to put him on trial facing the death penalty. B1
 
Rebuff of Mayor's Offer of Aid
The mother of a street peddler whose killing by four police officers in the Bronx led to angry protests has refused an offer of financial help from Mayor Giuliani. Prominent current and former city officials criticized the Mayor and police for what they termed an inadequate and insensitive response to the shooting. B8
 
City Challenges Comptroller
A lawyer representing Mayor Giuliani contended that State Comptroller H. Carl McCall lacked the authority to evaluate the efficiency and management of the city government, even though Mr. McCall and his predecessors have conducted hundreds of such reviews. B3
 
Report on Subway Cleanliness
Seventy-three percent of city subway cars were unacceptably dirty last year, and only 3 percent were very clean, a passengers advocacy group said. New York City Transit called the report "meaningless." B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Successor to 'Invisible Man'
Random House is planning to publish the second novel of Ralph Ellison, "Juneteenth," a work he struggled with for more than 40 years and left unfinished when he died in 1994. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-21
 
Judge Orders Pilots to Work
A Federal judge ordered American Airlines pilots to return to work, after five days of unrest that grounded more than 2,500 flights. American said it expected most of the pilots to return, though several hundred flights would still be canceled today because many planes were out of position. The airline said service should be back to normal by the weekend. A1
 
Microsoft's View of Netscape
A senior Microsoft official acknowledged in Federal court that the company's contracts prohibited Internet providers from offering Microsoft's browser on the same Web page as Netscape's because Microsoft executives "thought we would lose in a side-by-side choice." C1
 
Ahead of the Curve
Several major investors in the on-line brokerage firm E*Trade, whose trading system failed for several hours during parts of three days last week, sold big chunks of stock just before the problems occurred. But the company's biggest investor, a Japanese software company, did not sell any shares. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C22
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-22
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: After the verdict; the widening Olympic scandal; prognosticating Oscar.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
TV Listings E11
 
Crossword E10
 
Weather D8
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TURKEY (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (74%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TURKEY (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (88%); AVALANCHES (85%); MOUNTAINS (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); RESORTS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); SKIING FACILITIES (61%); SKIING (61%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); DESERTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



243 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Census Chief Accuses Panel Of Meddling With Details

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10

 BODY:
The director of the Census Bureau criticized Congressional Republicans today for what he described as their efforts to "micromanage" preparations for the 2000 census.
The director, Kenneth Prewitt, said in an interview that Republicans on the House Subcommittee on the Census had suggested changes in bureau plans like how many census takers should be hired, where they should be deployed, the language other than English in which census forms for a given area should be printed, and the ability of municipal governments to challenge the count of local populations. 
 "If you put all these together, it's as if the subcommittee is trying to design the census," said Mr. Prewitt, whom the Senate confirmed to his post last summer. "It strikes me as a very risky enterprise to try to micromanage the census."
Many of the career professionals at the Census Bureau's headquarters, in Suitland, Md., outside Washington, have long held views like Mr. Prewitt's, but they have generally grumbled in private. The director's comments stand out not so much because of their tone or content as because he chose to make them publicly.
Mr. Prewitt said he was particularly bothered by a bill introduced by Representative Dan Miller of Florida, chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Census, that would permit local governments to review the Census Bureau's work after completion of the count. If a municipality challenged the bureau's count of a given block, for instance, the agency would have to send census takers to recanvass the area.
"It invites 39,000 independent jurisdictions to tell us that they have more people than we found," Mr. Prewitt said. "It's an incentive for anyone to try to boost their numbers for either economic or political gain."
The procedure, known as post-census local review, was used for the 1990 census, and challenges then forced the bureau to revisit 20 percent of the nation's census blocks. Mr. Prewitt and other officials of the bureau said that the process had proved expensive and had found only a tiny fraction of those who had earlier been missed and that as a result, the agency had made no plans to use it in the 2000 census. But Representative Miller said:
"This is something that local officials want. I don't see why the Census Bureau would object. I don't know what they are afraid of. Are they afraid local officials will find a mistake, or do they think they are perfect?"
The Republican-controlled subcommittee is holding a hearing on the bill on Thursday and has scheduled a vote then. Mr. Prewitt said he was particularly upset that no Census Bureau official had been invited to testify.
"I feel almost aggrieved," he said, "that the subcommittee would hold hearings on something that would lead to such a major change in census procedures without inviting the Census Bureau to testify."
Mr. Miller said that discussions about the bill had taken place "at the staff level" and that the bureau's objections had been noted.
Democrats maintain that the Republicans are pressing for post-census local review to throw a monkey wrench into the Census Bureau's ability to produce population counts that can be used for the drawing of boundaries for Congressional and state legislative districts. Bureau officials say post-census local review would add five to six weeks to the time to compile official numbers for such redistricting.
Last month the Supreme Court ruled that the bureau could not use a hotly debated method known as statistical sampling to help produce an official population figure that will be used to determine the number of House seats each state will be allocated.
But the High Court did not explicitly rule on whether sampling was permitted to establish precisely where inside a state people live. Such information is used to draw boundaries for Congressional and state legislative districts.
Experts say sampling will increase the number of minority members who are counted. Since minorities tend to live in areas that are strongly Democratic, increasing their numbers could help Democrats when district lines are drawn.
Most states must have official numbers for redistricting by April 1, 2001. If they do not get the number affected by sampling by then, they will have to use the basic figures the Census Bureau prepares for apportionment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CENSUS (96%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); 

PERSON: DAN MILLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



244 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2367 words

HEADLINE: ONE CITY, TWO CUBAS: A special report.;
Miami's Exiles: Side by Side, Yet Worlds Apart

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 10

 BODY:
In a classroom of newly arrived Cubans, Alex Alvarez, a Cuban transplant himself, wasted no time scaring his students straight. "Welcome to the capitalist system," he said. "Each one of you is responsible for the amount of money you have in your pocket. The Government is not responsible for whether you eat, or whether you're poor or rich. The Government doesn't guarantee you a job or a house.
"You've come to a rich and powerful country, but it is up to you whether or not you continue living like you did in Cuba." 
 Such warnings were not necessary 40 years ago, when Cubans fleeing Fidel Castro settled down here to await, some to plot, his downfall. They came from a capitalist system, with enough education and ambition to fulfill the American dream. But Mr. Castro has lasted so long that Miami now reflects different Cubas.
The people from today's Cuba are the children of a revolution that provided social guarantees but limited opportunities. They include those filling out job applications in Mr. Alvarez's class at the Training and Employment Council of South Florida, where he admonishes them, "Put down 'High School, Havana, Cuba.' Do not write 'Secundaria Ho Chi Minh.' "
The people from an earlier Cuba, and their children, have grown into a Miami Who's Who. The mayors of the city and county of Miami, the county police chief and the county state attorney are all Cuban-born or of Cuban descent. So are the president of the largest bank, the owner of the largest real estate developer, the managing partner of the largest law firm, nearly half of the county's 27 state legislators and two of its six members of Congress.
About the only accomplishment Cuban-Americans cannot claim is regaining their country.
"There's an irony and pathos about the situation," a University of Miami sociologist and expert on Cuban affairs, Max Castro, said. "They have succeeded as immigrants and failed as exiles."
That success and failure is etched on Miami, the main repository of Cuban dreams and dissent in the United States, where the news one day can be about a Cuban-American company's shares being traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and the next about the arrest of four aging exiles on a mission to assassinate Mr. Castro.
But the immigration over the decades has made Miami so distinctly Cuban that the cultural clash is no longer between Cubans and Americans as much as between different waves of Cuban immigrants.
With each batch of immigrants who win the annual visa lottery, each of the smuggled boatloads of Cubans that land almost daily in South Florida, Cuban Miami becomes less cohesive, encompassing a people who differ in social class, race, generation and politics, who increasingly come from different worlds.
The first and the latest waves of Cubans, particularly, said a sociologist at the University of Michigan, Silvia Pedraza, "live side by side but remain aloof from one another."
Until recently the Federal Government had an open-door policy for Cuban immigrants, welcoming them as victims of Communism. They still get special treatment. Each year, 20,000 are granted visas by lot.
 
The New Wave
Despite Welcome, A Hard Transition
 Immigrants from Cuba still count on welcoming relatives like Efrain Veiga, who left Cuba as a child in 1962 and now, at 47, is the successful owner of the Yuca restaurant in Miami Beach. Mr. Veiga has visited Cuba twice and regularly sends money to relatives there.
But even Mr. Veiga was startled by his latest experience with a cousin, whom he had helped leave the island, put up in his own home here and given a job in his restaurant.
Mr. Veiga said he was surprised when his cousin balked at working weekends. And the restaurant owner was outright shocked, he said, when one of his waiters showed up for work wearing a pair of expensive shoes he had given his cousin.
"Where did you get those shoes?" Mr. Veiga asked.
"Your cousin sold them to me," the waiter replied.
Mr. Veiga has hired other newcomers from Cuba and found many of them also stuck in the day-to-day survival mode of modern Cuba, where trading shoes for dollars could put food on the table.
"Their life style and way of thinking is different," Mr. Veiga said. "Deep down they feel we owe them something, that we've had it better."
The shock is mutual. Mr. Alvarez's students said one of their biggest surprises in the United States was how hard people work. Another is how "Americanized" their compatriots have become, they say.
"People are so materialistic," said Olga Rodriguez, 40, who came legally last year with a son, 22, and daughter, 15. "It's like they have the dollar sign on their forehead. It hasn't happened to me yet. I offer rides to classmates in language school even if I have to go out of my way."
Eduardo Marquez, 30, arrived in the United States after a year in American refugee camps Panama and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Only one of several distant relatives offered to put him up when he finally got here in 1995, and then only for two weeks. He said no thanks.
"They think we all steal," he said.
Mr. Marquez, a painter and sculptor who sold his art on the streets of Havana, said his relatives had also painted too rosy a picture of life here. "I thought that this was a wonderland, that you'd kick a rock and money would fall out," he said. Instead, he has bounced from job to job while struggling to start a pest control business.
Mr. Marquez does not regret leaving Cuba. The island, however, still has the pull of the 7-year-old daughter and a brother.
"I'm not political but from a human standpoint, they're killing of hunger the people, not Fidel," Mr. Marquez said, explaining why he opposed the American trade embargo of Cuba. "People here think that in Cuba a group could get organized to take Fidel out. That's really easy to say with a full stomach."
 
The First Wave
A Cuba Recalled, Then Recreated
 It is true that many older exiles have lost touch, living off of memories that may or may not be accurate. But full stomachs have not tempered the craving for their homeland of those who settled here in the 1960s, fleeing the radicalization of the island and fearing political persecution and Communist indoctrination of their children. They have recreated pre-revolution Cuba here, renaming streets after Cuban martyrs, reactivating Cuban social clubs, trade organizations and businesses, filling supermarket shelves with "Cubano" versions of coffee, cheese and bread.
In this parallel Cuban universe, Jose Lopez-Silvero, 78, and Alfredo Blanco, 80, president and vice-president of the Sugar Producers of Cuba Inc., which represents those whose companies were nationalized by the Castro regime, can say exactly how much their former sugar mills are producing today and how much the workers earn. They have not seen Cuba since they left in 1960, but their information is all first-hand, gleaned from recent arrivals and letters from Cuba. Their ties, while no longer familial, remain emotional.
The former sugar producers want to recover their nationalized properties, which had been with some families for generations and which they regard as stolen. Their group also has a plan for restoring the sugar industry to its past glory in "post-Communist Cuba," one of many reconstruction plans hatched all over Miami for the moment Cuba gains its "freedom," as if Mr. Castro's four-decade rule has been just a temporary setback, a bad dream.
In their long exile, Mr. Blanco, a retired sugar trader and executive, and Mr. Lopez-Silvero, a retired corporate legal consultant, have supported the 37-year-old American embargo. They blame its failure to induce democratic change in Cuba on past Soviet subsidies and what they deem lax enforcement of its toughest provisions.
They have seen change come close -- before the Bay of Pigs invasion failed, after the Berlin wall fell -- only to be let down. Now, they say, it is only a matter of time.
"Castro has to die some day," said Mr. Blanco, who is eight years older than the ruler.
Many of the early immigrants' children, however, are not waiting Mr. Castro out. Fed by their parents' nostalgia, aided by the contacts allowed with Cuba and driven more by curiosity than patriotism, they help fill clubs that feature bands from the island, and the charter flights to Havana that leave several times a week from Miami International Airport.
Richard Blanco, 30, a civil engineer born in Madrid to Cuban exiles and raised in Miami, visited Cuba in 1994 for the first time. He said the country did not differ much from the descriptions he had heard growing up, "except for the poverty," and he felt totally at ease. Last year he published a book of poems that laid out some of the feelings of his generation. One poem, "Mail for Mama," reads:
"Monthly, you would peel eggshell pages,
The white onionskin paper telling details:
Kiki's first steps, your mother's death,
Dates approximated by the postmarks.
Sometimes with pictures: mute black and whites,
Poor photos of poor cousins I would handle
Looking for my resemblance in the foreign
Image of an ear, an eyebrow, or a nose."
 
The Next Wave
Other Ethnic Groups Dilute Cuban Flavor
 While Miami's Cuban population evolves with American-born generations and newcomers, other demographic forces at work are changing the face of Hispanic Miami.
Cubans are still the single largest Latin American group, making up about 60 percent of the total Hispanic population, which accounts for more than half Miami-Dade County's population. But while the Cuban influx was accompanied by the flight of local whites, it coincided with the arrival of other Hispanic immigrants.
The Latin Americanization of Miami is slowly chipping away at the dominant Cuban identity. In Little Havana, storefronts advertise Salvadoran corn pancakes and waitresses hail from Honduras and Peru; on the radio, only one of three stations continue Cuba-oriented talk, and the area's highest-rated Spanish-language station is Colombian.
But if the voices are more diverse, and even politically moderate and liberal Cuban-Americans have come out in the open, Miami's political discourse and much of the media coverage is still largely defined by hard-edged conservatism. At times the city has the feel of a bubble suspended in time, where issues are debated as if Mr. Castro had just taken over, where "communist" is still the ultimate insult.
Polls have shown that a majority of Cubans here oppose even beginning a political dialogue with the Cuban government under Mr. Castro, a position zealously guarded by Cuban-Americans whose influence in Washington was personified by the founder of the Cuban American National Foundation, the late Jorge Mas Canosa, a man Presidents consulted on policy toward Cuba.
That unwavering stance, coupled with an image of political intolerance and violent episodes of right-wing extremism, has won the exiles little international sympathy. Mr. Castro, some political experts say, has proven far more shrewd at public relations than his opponents.
"We're seen as a narrow-minded," said Professor Castro, the University of Miami sociologist. "The one political success has been to turn U.S. policy in a hard-line direction, and that hasn't worked because it has the negative connotation that it hurts Cuban people."
Cuban-Americans like Bill Teck, editor of the magazine "Generation N," a term applied to bicultural Hispanics members of Generation X, said his readers and staff differed on Cuba policy issues but shared a frustration that so many see Cuba through a romantic prism, blind to its political prisoners, its lack of democratic elections, its human rights violations.
"What we talk about is the failure of the cause of a free Cuba to permeate the pop culture," said Mr. Teck, who was born here of an American father and a Cuban mother.
But among the younger generations, the conservative message has become less strident.
Alex Penelas, the Miami-born, 37-year-old mayor of Miami-Dade County and an politician many here expect to someday run for President, has inherited the conservatism of his parents. His father narrowly escaped a death sentence for plotting against Mr. Castro in 1960, said Mr. Penelas, who blames Mr. Castro for his never having met his paternal grandfather, who died in Cuba.
"I'm not convinced of this generational gap people talk about," said the Mayor, who is fluent in both English and Spanish.
Unlike many of his elders, however, Mr. Penelas has bicultural sensibilities. He said he would not have snubbed Nelson Mandela for his friendship with Mr. Castro, as Miami's Cuban leadership did when the South African leader visited here in 1990. The incident, which included the withdrawal of an official welcoming proclamation, prompted a three-year black tourism boycott of Miami-Dade County and worsened feelings of alienation among blacks here.
"I would have met him, given him the proclamation and use the opportunity" to give Mr. Mandela his opinion of Mr. Castro, he said.
And although he has lobbied for traditional Cuban-American causes like the embargo, he has also reached out to black constituents, championed gay rights and taken up the concerns of the numerous ethnic groups who now call Miami home.
Cuba still beckons, however. Mr. Penelas envisions "migration challenges" when the Communist Party loosens its grip on the island, as Cubans here expect after Mr. Castro's death. But he also sees an economic bonanza for Miami in trade and tourism if the embargo is lifted.
Mr. Penelas also expects to play some role in Cuba's transition to democracy, plans shared by many other Cuban-Americans, which some predict will create new conflict as a post-Castro Cuba is reshaped. But like most Cuban-Americans, naturalized or native born, he would stay put in Miami.
Less than 30 percent of the about 600,000 Cuban-Americans here would move to the island, polls show. This is where more than half of all Cubans in the United States have chosen to live, where the old have doctors, pensions and offspring, and where the young find opportunity and their own roots.
Miami, after all, is home.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cuban Miami has become less cohesive, encompassing a people who differ in social class, race, generation and politics, who increasingly come from different worlds. Above, patrons enjoyed a Cuban salsa band at a club in Miami. Below, a Cuban coffee counter in the largely Cuban city of Hialeah, Fla. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); LAWYERS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1999



245 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 40; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW;
Still Life Still Challenges: Updating the Old Masters

BYLINE: By MARGARETT LOKE

 BODY:
D. W. Mellor has had several lives in photography. He began to collect photographs in 1969, soon after receiving a degree in economics. He ran a photography gallery in Philadelphia from 1979 to 1982. For 30 years he was a freelance photographer who took mostly color shots. Since 1993 he has been working on his own black-and-white photography, focusing on a genre that would have daunted a lesser soul: still lifes inspired by the Old Masters.
In his photographs, about a dozen of which are at the Yancey Richardson Gallery in SoHo, Mr. Mellor shows a firm grasp of Old Master components: darkness and light, rhythm and balance, texture and geometry. A few choice dinner table objects are left casually but artfully on a plain old wood table. The natural light picks out of the enveloping darkness the glint in the glass, the shine in the silver, the textures on the skin of fruits and vegetables, the polish of the table. 
 Mr. Mellor reproduces in precise, exquisite detail on photographic paper what 17th-century painters recreated in precise, exquisite detail on canvas. More astonishing is Mr. Mellor's ability to produce black-and-white prints whose sumptuously subtle tonalities echo the luminous colors one would expect in, say, an old Flemish still life.
Because they follow a set of formal stylistic conventions, 17th-century still lifes are superficially similar yet strikingly dissimilar when viewed closely. At a glance Mr. Mellor's images appear to have a sameness. Up close it's another matter.
Take, for instance, "Still Life With Conch Shell, Amsterdam" (1998), "Still Life With Florentine Glass and Two Glasses, London" (1997) and "Still Life With Twist, Venice, Italy" (1995). The objects in each of these are arranged in a kind of triangular formation. But the internal dialogue of the images differs among them.
Despite a silver conch, an ornate metal goblet and a crystal wineglass, the first of these images has an almost spartan feel, an impression reinforced by three groupings spread sparingly along the length of a table. On the left is a large empty metal platter with a calligraphic twist of lemon peel balanced on its rim, the silver conch placed behind the plate. The second grouping includes a peach, a large toy marble, a wineglass, a goblet and a sugar shaker. At the right of the image is a lone marble. Supplying a note of age-old solidity is the edge of the table, the light detailing the wood grain and every nick on it.
The image taken in London, focusing as it does on an ornate goblet in cut glass and silver, is a luxurious still life. Centered in the picture is a cluster that also includes an elaborate but smaller wineglass and a lemon half balanced on the rim of a silver plate. To the left is a secondary cluster of a fluted glass, a metal plate, a pear and grapes.
"Still Life With Twist," however, carries a jumbled message. There is a lovely translucent sliced fruit in the foreground and the textures of the other fruits are nicely captured. But a lemon peel is much too artificially hooked from the lip of a wineglass and around the stem of a metal goblet. And a small classical statue of a nude leaning against a pear is a jarring touch.
Such a strangely dissonant note also appears in "Still Life With Standing Fork, Pacific Palisades" (1996). Lined up on a table are grapes piled high in a reticulated silver basket, a peach on a plate and an old fork standing on its tines. The tip of the fork handle may be roughly aligned with the top of the basket handle, but the balance in the image is off, and the fork improbably standing on tippy toes is too contrived.
But these are only a few minuses in a show that is mesmerizing in its radiant stillness. The highlight is "Still Life With Broken Glass, Amsterdam" (1998), with its superb balancing of textures and the play of light on the various surfaces. On the same table shown in "Still Life With Conch Shell" are a 17th-century drinking glass, a reproduction of which is broken and lies on its side against a metal plate with a single marble on it. Completing the arrangement is a half-peeled lemon, its cut peel spiraling toward a knife.
The anomaly of the broken glass works here, its jagged fragments a textural contrast to the whimsical curl of the lemon peel. Adding a mysterious note is the reflection on the intact drinking glass, which seems to indicate a long room with windows on either side.
While Mr. Mellor's still lifes show the influence of Josef Sudek, a number of whose still lifes are on view in a separate section of the gallery, four of Mr. Mellor's assemblages included in this exhibition can be said to be a homage to Frederick Sommer, one of this century's most inventive photographers. Like Sommer, Mr. Mellor photographs images he has created by combining elements from assorted materials, including old etchings and found objects like pieces of wood or plaster. Like Sommer's surreal assemblages, Mr. Mellor's are puzzling at first sight and require close study.
"Les Taurocathaspies, Bryn Mawr" (1997) includes segments from an etching of boys on horses and bulls. Because the long and narrow print was too large for Mr. Mellor's 8-by-10 view camera, he first cut the etching into strips. Two years later, in an abandoned church in Greece, he found a piece of wood whose painted surface had long disappeared. The etching strips he wanted in his image fitted exactly on the piece of wood.
The Sommeresque energy is very evident in "Les Taurocathaspies," which shows the boys and their animals seemingly riding upward on a rugged terrain. While boys and animals are bathed in a light that is broken into shards, all about them is a murky abstraction of black splotches interspersed here and there with light gray parallel lines.
Two 1996 companion pieces, also using fragments from etchings, are "Apollo, Bryn Mawr" and "Last Judgment, Bryn Mawr," which powerfully sum up the story of Marsyas, a skilled flutist, challenging Apollo to a contest and losing. As punishment, Apollo had Marsyas skinned alive. Against a beautifully floating background of indeterminate materials, the Greek god in "Apollo" is wildly triumphant, almost flying out of the picture, as a foot steps out of one backdrop into another. By contrast, Marsyas in "Last Judgment" is a ghostly and blurred figure. Behind him is a large X formed by the assembled portraits of nightmarish faces that fill the rest of the image.
These assemblages may seem radically different from the still lifes. But both draw their inspiration from Old Master subjects, and both are visual deceptions that reveal themselves only if the viewer takes the time to stop and look.
"D. W. Mellor: In Situ" remains at the Yancey Richardson Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, through Feb. 20.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large detail from D. W. Mellor's "Still Life With Broken Glass" (1998). (Yancey Richardson Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); ITALY (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); ITALY (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); PAINTING (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



246 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 28; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 10.
 
Now Playing
 
* "AFFLICTION," starring Nick Nolte, James Coburn, Willem Dafoe, Sissy Spacek and Mary Beth Hurt. Directed by Paul Schrader (R, 114 minutes). Mr. Nolte is devastating in the performance of his career, as Wade Whitehouse, a New Hampshire loner fighting a losing battle with demons from his past. Foremost among them: Mr. Coburn, terrifyingly authentic as the drunken, abusive father who long ago cowed his sons into submission. As directed by Mr. Schrader, this pure, unfettered adaptation of Russell Banks's novel starts on a deceptively ordinary note, then escalates into inexorable fury. Every little detail matters. Ms. Spacek and Ms. Hurt expertly play the women who trigger Wade's crisis (Janet Maslin). 

* "ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE," starring James Woods and Melanie Griffith. Directed by Larry Clark (R, 101 minutes). From the director of the bruising and ominous "Kids," this vibrant, unapologetically seedy road movie is a virtual day at the beach. Mr. Clark's second feature may not have the sting of his first, but it comes closer to establishing him as William S. Burroughs with a swooping, pivoting movie camera, bringing bizarrely innocent enthusiasm to material that might otherwise ooze druggy shock value, and making decadence as basic as the weather. Mr. Woods, as a junkie, thief and absurdly unlikely father figure, revels in this full-throttle role (Maslin).
 
"AT FIRST SIGHT," starring Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino. Directed by Irwin Winkler (PG-13, 128 minutes). In this overlong and often desperately banal version of a case study reported by Dr. Oliver Sacks, Mr. Kilmer plays a man whose nearly lifelong blindness was suddenly alleviated by surgery. Ms. Sorvino plays the bright-eyed New York career woman who falls in love with him, then urges him to change his once-peaceful life. But the film brings little more than case-study data to communicating how this man's restored sight affected him, or what made it a mixed blessing. Sample dialogue: "Have you ever listened to the rain? I mean, really listened?" (Maslin).
 
* "CENTRAL STATION," starring Fernanda Montenegro, Vinicius de Oliveira and Marilia Pera. Directed by Walter Salles (R, 115 minutes). In this quiet, luminous Brazilian gem, a joyless older woman crosses paths with an orphaned young boy. There's plenty of room for sentimentality here, but the wonder of Mr. Salles's film is all in the telling. As these characters develop a fractious bond, then embark on a road trip that takes them vividly to Brazil's hinterlands in search of the boy's father, Mr. Salles brings great tenderness and surprise to the events that punctuate their journey. Ms. Montenegro's tough bravura performance was one of last year's very best (Maslin).
 
* "A CIVIL ACTION," starring John Travolta and Robert Duvall. Directed by Steven Zaillian (PG-13, 120 minutes). This story of a David-Goliath lawsuit against industrial polluters, with Mr. Travolta first-rate as an ambulance chaser who develops a conscience, could have been business as usual in the legal thriller genre. But Mr. Zaillian's keenly observed, beautifully acted film, based on Jonathan Harr's nonfiction best seller about a case in Woburn, Mass., doesn't follow familiar formulas. It follows all the surprises and frustrations of a story that was never black and white and is all the better for its shades of gray. Mr. Duvall is outstanding as a corporate lawyer full of wily tricks (Maslin).
 
* "GODS AND MONSTERS," starring Ian McKellen and Brendan Fraser. Directed by Bill Condon (not rated, 105 minutes). In a performance that well deserves to be remembered at Academy Award time, Mr. McKellen becomes the deliciously urbane James Whale, depicting the gay "Frankenstein" director late in life. Shaken by the aftereffects of a mild stroke, this Whale finds his past coming back to greet him just as the present offers new fascination in the Adonis-like form of the gardener (Mr. Fraser, also fine), whom Whale finds mowing his lawn. This beautifully acted, witty and heart-tugging film, from a Christopher Bram book, imagines what Whale's final days might have been like while shaping a splendid character study and a droll portrait of closeted gay Hollywood. Lynn Redgrave provides ballast and comic relief as Whale's perpetually scandalized housekeeper (Maslin).
 
* "HILARY AND JACKIE," starring Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths. Directed by Anand Tucker (R, 121 minutes). The parallel biographies of the brilliant cellist Jacqueline du Pre (Ms. Watson), who contracted multiple sclerosis at the height of her career, and her slightly older sister, Hilary (Ms. Griffiths), a talented flutist who gave up a professional career to marry and be "ordinary," is one of the most insightful studies of sibling rivalry ever filmed. Jacqueline may have won fame and glory, the movie says, but she remained a desperately needy emotional child who had to have everything Hilary had (including Hilary's husband). The film is structured like a concerto, in three movements, the last of which ends with Jackie's harrowing death in her sister's arms. The drama is deepened by a soundtrack that makes expert use of Jacqueline's signature piece, the Elgar Cello Concerto in E minor. Ms. Watson's Jacqueline flames with an almost scary intensity (Stephen Holden).
 
* "MY NAME IS JOE," starring Peter Mullan and Louise Goodall. Directed by Ken Loach (R, 92 minutes). A splendid, feisty performance by Mr. Mullan energizes this film about a recovering alcoholic trying to rebuild his life. With humor and scrappy intensity, Joe throws himself into coaching young athletes and embarking tenuously on a love affair, only to find the expected challenges to his new sobriety everywhere. Mr. Loach's commitment to delineating social issues is accentuated by the way his star breathes life into Joe and makes viewers root for his success. Special bonus: this film breaks the brogue-and-burr barrier by including helpful subtitles for the overlapping, heavily Scottish-accented dialogue (Maslin).
 
"PATCH ADAMS," starring Robin Williams and Monica Potter. Directed by Tom Shadyac (PG-13, 110 minutes). As a maverick doctor intent on making terminal patients laugh, Mr. Williams delivers a little clowning and a lot of maudlin feel-good sentiment, along with vulgarity left over from the filmmaker's "Ace Ventura" days. He also spends a lot of time being congratulated for his good works, as the film's minor players are kept busy marveling at his antics. The real-life story of this doctor may sound like a fine excuse for Mr. Williams to cut loose, but the film version proves narrow and predictable. Ms. Potter, with a nostrilly resemblance to Julia Roberts, figures in a romantic subplot with a bizarre twist (Maslin).
 
"PAYBACK," starring Mel Gibson and Gregg Henry. Directed by Brian Helgeland (R, 110 minutes). In this inept, excessively sadistic film-noir spoof adapted from the same Richard Stark novel ("The Hunter") that inspired the 1967 genre classic "Point Black," Mr. Gibson is a thief named Porter who retaliates with a vengeance after an attempt on his life. Determined to recover $70,000 that was stolen from him by a double-crossing partner in crime, he works his way up the pecking order of a crime syndicate brutally dispatching all who stand in his way. The hard-boiled dialogue is ludicrous, the storytelling clunky, the acting fair to awful, the gore ankle-deep. Credit the star with being able to keep a straight face through this loathsome mess (Holden).
 
* "THE PRINCE OF EGYPT," starring the voices of Val Kilmer, Ralph Fiennes and Michelle Pfeiffer. Directed by Brenda Chapman, Steve Hickner and Simon Wells (PG, 93 minutes). First came the great expectations for this animated magnum opus from Dreamworks. Then came reality, in a film struggling mightily to balance animated whimsy and biblical stature. The upshot is an admirably worthy rendering of the Exodus story, even if Moses must initially be seen as a playful young scamp. Biblical plagues and miracles serve as special inspiration for the animators' reality-bending ingenuity (Maslin).
 
* "RUSHMORE," starring Jason Schwartzman, Bill Murray and Olivia Williams. Directed by Wes Anderson (R, 93 minutes). A dryly hilarious portrait of the mogul as a young man, with Mr. Schwartzman a real find as its perfectly horrid little hero, Max Fischer. Max's prep school, Rushmore Academy, does have a faculty, but none of the grown-ups have anything like Max's natural authority. Mr. Murray is sneakily fine as the steel tycoon and Rushmore benefactor who happens to be on Max's own wavelength as they vie for the same beautiful teacher. A particular treat for its skewed, outrageously funny memories of a cutthroat boyhood (Maslin).
 
* "SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE," starring Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth Paltrow, Geoffrey Rush, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench. Directed by John Madden (R, 113 minutes). A witty, sexy and merrily literate delight, with an exhilaratingly clever premise that only gets better as the film unfolds. The screenplay, originating as Marc Norman's brainstorm and turned by Tom Stoppard into razor-sharp dialogue reminiscent of his "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," dares to imagine whatever it likes about the link between Shakespeare's artistic passions and his mad yearning for a certain aristocratic beauty. Meanwhile, this tirelessly inventive comedy envisions an Elizabethan theater fraught with the same backbiting and conniving we enjoy today, and has great fun presenting the creation of "Romeo and Juliet," glitches and all. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Paltrow make a fine, tempestuous duo, and she gives the first great, fully realized starring performance of her career (Maslin).
 
* "A SIMPLE PLAN," starring Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda. Directed by Sam Raimi (R, 120 minutes). This onetime cult horror director makes a flawless transition to mainstream storytelling with a quietly devastating thriller. And its fine cast plays out the consequences of a harmless-sounding error in judgment that winds up leveling everything in its path. The catalyst is $4.4 million that literally falls out of the sky, and Scott B. Smith's story proves how deadly the morality of expediency can become. When you get the shivers watching this wintry tale, which features an especially memorable performance from Mr. Thornton, it won't be from the cold (Maslin).
 
"STEPMOM," starring Susan Sarandon, Julia Roberts and Ed Harris. Directed by Chris Columbus (PG-13, 120 minutes). A man's ex-wife and new girlfriend lock horns over who can be nicer to his two children, in a sudsy story made livelier by its two female stars, both in appealingly high gear. Ms. Roberts plays the nicest person ever to wear black to a downtown photo shoot, while the especially fiery Ms. Sarandon plays the suburban mother as mama lion. Even when the prospect of mortality looms, the story manages to maintain its big, lavish look and peculiar (under the circumstances) sense of fun. As in "Home Alone," Mr. Columbus directs with sunny indifference to reality, medical, economic or otherwise (Maslin).
 
"THE THIN RED LINE," starring Jim Caviezel, Ben Chaplin, Nick Nolte and Sean Penn. Directed by Terrence Malick (R, 166 minutes). From the first frame of this huge, drifting war epic loosely derived from James Jones's Guadalcanal novel, it's viscerally clear that Mr. Malick is back. The exquisite, oddly detached visual style that made "Badlands" and "Days of Heaven" the most beautiful films of the 1970's is instantly apparent here, even if the narrative vagueness and brooding voice-overs are also familiar. The film sprawls, gets lost and occasionally delivers visual poetry, the kind that could have been greatly helped by tighter editing. Bottom line: no one who admired Mr. Malick's early work should miss this. But those expecting anything simple will not find it here (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"UNIVERSAL HITCHCOCK." Devotees of Alfred Hitchcock probably already have the 32-cent postage stamp bearing his likeness. This year, on Aug. 13 (it is, appropriately, a Friday), they can buy a cake, light candles and wish him a happy 100th birthday, even though he has been dead since 1980. And beginning today, admirers of the master of cinematic suspense can celebrate his centennial in the best possible way, by means of a five-week 13-film series at Film Forum. Starting off with a two-week run of the 1960 "Psycho," the series will include such other classics as "Shadow of a Doubt" (1943), "The Man Who Knew Too Much" (1955), "Rope" (1948), "Marnie" (1964), "Vertigo" (1958), "Saboteur" (1942) and "The Birds" (1963). The series features all new 35-millimeter prints, a result of Universal Pictures's continuing restoration program. The series continues through March 18 at Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, South Village. Tickets: $8.50; $4.50 for members. Screening information: (212) 727-8110 (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lethal weapons: Mel Gibson, left, with Gregg Henry in "Payback," directed by Brian Helgeland. (Andrew Cooper/Icon Distribution); That shower: Janet Leigh in Alfred Hitchcock's "Psycho" (1960) in a celebration of the director. (Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); CASE STUDIES (85%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); ORPHANS (74%); MEN (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%); BLINDNESS (63%); 

PERSON: PAUL JOSEPH SCHRADER (72%); NICK NOLTE (72%); MARY ELIZABETH 'SISSY' SPACEK (72%); JAMES COBURN (72%); WILLIAM 'WILLEM' DAFOE (57%); RUSSELL BANKS (56%); MELANIE GRIFFITH (55%); WILLIAM S BURROUGHS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



247 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The dollar rose against the euro after Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the United States economy was "the envy of the world." In New York, the euro traded at $1.12350, down from $1.13310.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January 4. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



248 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Despite Brisk Sales, G.M. Won't Reach Market Goals

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 11

 BODY:
General Motors' top North American executive said today that a long-promised sharp rebound in the company's market share in the United States would not be possible this year if the industry's sales continued at their torrid pace because G.M. could not produce enough full-sized pickup trucks to meet demand.
The acknowledgment of G.M.'s difficulties is an unusual example of how the prosperity of the American economy combined with low energy prices has actually created problems for some companies. G.M. simply cannot make enough big V8 engines to build all the full-sized pickup trucks it needs to meet its market-share goals at a time of near-record auto sales and record light-truck sales, said Ronald Zarrella, the president of G.M.'s North American operations. 
 G.M.'s market share has been falling for more than two decades and even edged below 30 percent last year, a serious problem for a company that has the factory capacity to supply 35 percent of the American market. Mr. Zarrella and other G.M. executives vowed late last year to reverse this long fall and set a goal of 32 percent of the market this year.
But Ronald Zarrella, G.M.'s president for North American automotive operations, told reporters at the Chicago Auto Show this afternoon that if the market remained at a brisk, seasonally adjusted annual rate of 16 million vehicles, a 32 percent market share would not be possible.
But Mr. Zarrella said low gasoline prices, which help sales of high-profit sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, were still better than high gasoline prices, which help sales of G.M.'s low-profit cars, for which it has a lot of extra production capacity. If gasoline prices rose, he said: "There'd be positives in terms of market share and lots of negatives in terms of profitability. Given a choice, I'd prefer the profitability."
Unlike the Ford Motor Company or DaimlerChrysler A.G., G.M. still has the bulk of its factories set up to produce cars rather than light trucks, a category including sport utility vehicles and minivans as well as pickup trucks.
Mr. Zarrella also announced a new technology for dashboard-mounted air bags, while saying that some rival auto makers were selling cars with side air bags that posed an unacceptably high risk of injuring or killing small children.
G.M.'s new technology involves a sensor pad that will be inserted in the front-seat cushions on the passenger side of family vehicles over the next several years. If the sensor pad senses a child seat or a person weighing less than 66 pounds in the front seat, the vehicle's front air bag will not deploy on the passenger side. While air bags have saved the lives of 3,800 Americans over the last decade, they have killed 125 children and short adults.
Mr. Zarrella said that G.M. thinks children younger than 12 should always be in the back seat, but many are not.
Robert Lange, G.M.'s safety director, said that German luxury auto makers were installing side air bags that inflated with such force that they could injure a toddler who was not using a seat belt or a child safety seat and who was sleeping against the door. G.M.'s side air bags have been designed for a year not to inflate fully if someone is sitting in their path; they have vents that allow some of the air to escape instead.
Mercedes-Benz and BMW A.G. officials said that their side air bags were safe. They pointed out that no children had been killed by their side air bags, which Mr. Lange acknowledged.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); DAI (FRA) (81%); DAI (BIT) (81%); GM (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM) FORD MOTOR CO (84%); DAIMLER AG (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS MARKET SHARE (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (87%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MINIVANS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); NEW CAR MODELS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); CHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: RONALD ZARRELLA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



249 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Hearst and Miramax to Split Cost of Tina Brown Magazine

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
Hearst Magazines and Miramax Films announced yesterday that they had agreed to publish Talk magazine, with Tina Brown as editor, as a joint venture.
The move will pit Ms. Brown against her former Conde Nast colleagues Graydon Carter and David Remnick in a battle for readership and advertising dollars. Mr. Carter replaced Ms. Brown as editor in chief of Vanity Fair when she left for The New Yorker. Mr. Remnick, editor of The New Yorker, was hired by Ms. Brown as a staff writer there. 
 The partnership between Miramax Films, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, and Hearst Magazines signals a shift for the giant, no-frills publisher known for producing magazines with a broad appeal like Popular Mechanics, Mr. Food and Cosmopolitan. Hearst will now be able to boast an editor known for clinking glasses at the Four Seasons and generating buzz.
Under the agreement, Hearst Magazines -- which publishes 19 magazines in the United States, including Good Housekeeping, Harper's Bazaar and Victoria -- will be responsible for the nuts and bolts of Talk: circulation, manufacturing, newsstand distribution, direct-mail efforts and subscription fulfillment. Talk Media, the parent company, which will still be owned by Miramax, will provide editorial content, advertising sales and marketing. Other divisions of Talk Media will eventually develop television programming and publish books, though details remain vague.
Hearst's partnership is limited to the magazine and its Web site. Executives on both sides of the deal said that start-up costs for the magazine would be around $50 million, costs that would be evenly shared by Hearst and Miramax. By joining with Hearst, Miramax reduces its risk in a business with low profit margins. It can also take advantage of Hearst's reader data base, economies of scale and bundled advertising packages.
Ms. Brown and Ron Galotti, Talk's publisher, both have personal equity stakes in the venture and will share in any profits, though to what extent is not clear.
Ms. Brown said that the first issue of Talk, which will sell for $2.95, would arrive in August. Ms. Brown would not discuss specific editorial content, but said that she had assembled "a staff of future stars."
She added, "Readers want intelligence and cachet, and they're the same audience that loved 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Shakespeare in Love.' " (Both movies were produced and distributed by Miramax.)
Media buyers said Talk was guaranteed to attract a flurry of attention -- "just because of who's behind the magazine," said Ellen Oppenheim, the media director of Foote, Cone & Belding New York. "The hard part is that we don't know what the continuing editorial vision will be."
With little information available to advertising agencies, media buyers are speculating that Mr. Galotti, armed with the contacts he nurtured when he was publisher of Vogue, may be going directly to the chief executive officers of companies that will advertise in the magazine.
There is also a concern among media buyers that Talk will be a direct competitor for ad pages with Vanity Fair and The New Yorker. Alan Jurmain, the media director at Lowe & Partners/SMS, said Talk would be going after "an audience -- the intelligentsia, the literati, whatever label you want to use -- where the pickings are already relatively slim."
The partnership also raises the question of differing fiscal sensibilities. Hearst is not the kind of corporation that dispenses lavish editorial salaries, nor will it send an editors' luggage overnight by Federal Express, as Conde Nast has done in the past for editors who hate carry-ons. Ms. Brown raised the bar on magazine publishing expenses at The New Yorker. By the time she left the magazine, The New Yorker was losing more money each year than when she started, but it was also generating more buzz.

 
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (X.HRS); MIRIMAX FILMS HEARST CORP (98%); WALT DISNEY CO (91%); DRAFTFCB INC (50%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEARST CORP (X.HRS); MIRIMAX FILMS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND MAGAZINES; TALK (MAGAZINE) MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (93%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); DATABASE MARKETING (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); 

PERSON: BROWN, TINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



250 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: MCI Worldcom and E.D.S. Form an Alliance

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
In a complex transaction, MCI Worldcom said yesterday that it would sell its computer-services business to the Electronic Data Systems Corporation for $1.65 billion as part of a broader alliance between the companies that involves up to $15.5 billion in revenue over the next decade.
The agreement has four main elements. First, MCI Worldcom will pay E.D.S. $5 billion to $7 billion over the 10-year contract to run its computer systems. In exchange, E.D.S. will pay MCI Worldcom $6 billion to $8.5 billion over the same period to handle its telephone services. 
 The third part is the acquisition by E.D.S. of MCI Systemhouse, an information technology services provider in Ottawa, for $1.65 billion in cash. Finally, E.D.S. and MCI Worldcom will cooperate on offering new kinds of communications and data services, including electronic business applications.
Jeffrey Heller, the president and chief operating officer of E.D.S., said in a telephone interview that the company had been seeking a closer relationship with a large telecommunications provider for some time. "We use, in support of our customers, a lot of telecommunications services, so we need access to the latest technology in the communications business, at the lowest price," he said. "It behooves us to have a closer relationship with somebody."
Mr. Heller said MCI was the most attractive potential partner because it has its own global data and communications network and is growing rapidly. The acquisition of Systemhouse was a further benefit, because it will make E.D.S. one of the largest information technology services providers in Canada, where it has not had a significant presence.
John Sidgmore, MCI Worldcom's vice chairman, said the company had considered acquiring another systems integrator, including E.D.S., to augment Systemhouse but had decided on this deal instead. "We were trying to find a partner that could provide us with world-class information technology," he said. "It was kind of a no-brainer, picking E.D.S. We just believe on faith that they can run computer systems better than us, and I know we can run communications systems more efficiently."
Although the deal appears complex, "both companies are going to wind up doing what they do best," Mr. Sidgmore said. "Even though there are billions of dollars changing hands here, at the end of the day, each company is going to be executing its core business."
The companies said that they expected more than 12,000 employees, primarily in the United States and Canada, to move to E.D.S. from MCI Worldcom and Systemhouse. About 1,000 E.D.S. employees will be offered jobs with MCI Worldcom.
Analysts said this deal, coupled with a similar arrangement between I.B.M. and the AT&T Corporation in December, could put pressure on competitors, like the Computer Sciences Corporation, in information technology, and the Sprint Corporation, in telecommunications, to form a partnership of their own.
Separately, MCI Worldcom reported fourth-quarter earnings of $428 million, or 23 cents a diluted share, compared with $95 million, or 10 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue quadrupled, to $8 billion from $2 billion.
Analysts expected MCI to earn 22 cents a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Results have been consolidated to reflect the merger of MCI and Worldcom last year and MCI's 19 percent economic interest in Embratel Participacoes S.A., Brazil's national communications provider.
Shares of MCI Worldcom shares rose $4.1875, to $80.4375, in Nasdaq trading. E.D.S. closed at $48.3125, up $2.4375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (97%); VZ (NYSE) (97%); T (NYSE) (85%); CSC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (97%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

COMPANY: MCI WORLDCOM INC (WCOM); ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP (EDS) VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (97%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (93%); AT&T INC (85%); COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCI WORLDCOM INC (WCOM); ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP (EDS)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



251 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: New Owners of Barney's Lack Experience

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
When Barney's Inc., the high-end retailer whose Barneys New York stores turned basic black pants into a uniform of Manhattan chic, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in early 1996, it did not take long for two types of investors to swoop in.
There were other retailers, who were itching to buy the prestigious name. Saks Fifth Avenue offered $290 million in 1997 for its archrival. Dickson Poon, a Hong Kong entrepreneur whose Dickson Concepts also owns Britain's Harvey Nichols department store, bid $280 million. Last year, the DFS Group, no stranger to luxury goods through its many airport duty-free shops, also flirted with the company, valuing it roughly the same as Mr. Poon. 
 The other interested parties were so-called vultures -- investors who acquire a distressed company's unpaid bills in secondary markets in hopes of collecting more later. The Barney's vultures ended up as its largest creditors, rejecting the bids from the retailers as inadequate.
So, as Barney's emerges from bankruptcy this month, control of the purveyor of Jil Sander suits and $300 T-shirts belongs to two vulture groups, Whippoorwill Associates of White Plains and Bay Harbour Management of New York. The Pressman family, who founded and ran Barney's for most of the century, has more or less left. Even more critically, the management team that turned the company's balance sheet around is leaving this spring.
Now that the vultures have laid claim to Barney's, what have they gotten for their money? While highly successful as buyers of distressed debt, the investors have no experience running a specialty retailer. And that won't be easy.
The company's chief executive, Thomas Shull, is departing because the new owners want a "growth chief executive," said Doug Teitlebaum of Bay Harbour. Mr. Teitlebaum and David Strumwasser, who heads Whippoorwill, together control about 70 percent of the company.
Leaving with Mr. Shull is the chief financial officer, Edward Lambert, and Paul Jen, the head of marketing, all from Meridian Ventures, a turnaround specialist. Shari Gregerman, head of stores, also left recently.
Gene Pressman, who shared the chairmanship of Barney's with his brother Bob, has packed up his office even though he has a two-year consulting contract. His wife, Bonnie, who ran the women's business, is now an executive at Polo/Ralph Lauren. Bob Pressman, who helped work out the deal with the vultures, is no longer involved in day-to-day operations. All this has drained the company of much high-octane talent.
"Vultures are much better at going in and very quickly making a decision than traditional creditors," said Jeff Manning, a managing director of Rodman & Renshaw, a New York investment bank. "But there are very few of these distressed investors who you really want to see operating your companies."
What is more, the investors now have to prove they can deliver the goods, because their deal actually valued the company at less than what the retailing bidders offered. The two bought the majority stake at $240 million, betting that a brighter future would let them unload Barney's for considerably more later.
"Dickson wanted to buy the company because he thought he could make a profit," Mr. Teitlebaum said. "We think we can make it more profitable. Why sell it at a low price and leave the future value for someone else?"
Mr. Teitlebaum originally bought the Barney's claims for roughly 30 cents on the dollar, and Mr. Strumwasser's purchases averaged about 50 cents. They expect their investment to rise substantially but, at least judging from the market for remaining trade claims -- now selling at about 15 cents on the dollar -- they are wildly optimistic.
At best, many analysts say, Barney's may not be worth much more for quite a while. Mr. Shull did much to turn around the troubled merchant. Many of its money-losing smaller stores were shuttered, leaving the company with seven stores and 11 off-price outlets. He cut the company's sizable debt and took advantage of its credit card list for marketing purposes.
"I feel strongly about the team that worked hard to create all this value," Mr. Shull said. "We shifted the priority from a focus on the image to making money."
But Barney's also faces a huge bill simply for rent. The company built its three flagship Barneys New York stores -- one on Madison Avenue, the others in Chicago and Beverly Hills, Calif. -- with the help of the Isetan Company of Japan, its partner in the 1980's. Barney's and Isetan later had a falling-out concerning who owned the stores; that dispute was at the core of the bankruptcy case.
Isetan won the dispute and is supposed to receive, in addition to some cash and a small equity stake, $15 million a year in rent -- about 7 percent of today's sales. Compared with the roughly 4.5 percent Saks pays for its rent and the 2.8 percent at Neiman Marcus, that is a hefty fixed cost for a company that relies on a strong stock market and booming economy to keep its affluent clients coming through the doors.
Already, sales at Barneys New York average roughly $575 a square foot, almost double that of most other specialty retailers. Some analysts question just how much more can be squeezed out.
Under the reorganization plan, sales in stores open at least one year are projected to grow about 5 percent a year during the next five years. Sales at existing Barney's stores grew 10 percent in 1998 -- an exceptionally strong number -- but how will the company top that? Maintaining even half that pace will be quite a challenge, especially without a new merchandising genius.
The pool of talented merchants is not terribly deep. Saks, for example, has yet to replace its president, Rose Marie Bravo, who left in 1997.
Mr. Teitlebaum said that the company could prosper without bringing in another top merchant. "You can't get caught up with titles," he said. "Barney's has a team culture. We have all the players on the field, and to me that is hugely significant."
It looks as if he will get a chance to test that thinking. None of those interested in Barney's before seem interested in buying it now.
Mr. Poon has not made new overtures and Myron E. Ullman 3d, the chairman of DFS, suggested that he saw no reason to pay more than his first bid. "I think," he said last week, "that we made a sound decision."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: 0113 (HKSE) (58%); RL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (93%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (58%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (55%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BARNEY'S INC (X.BAR) BARNEYS INC (93%); DICKSON CONCEPTS (INTERNATIONAL) LTD (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); JIL SANDER AG (55%); RALPH LAUREN CORP (51%); DIRECT MARKETS HOLDINGS CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARNEY'S INC (X.BAR)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (71%); WOMEN (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



252 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Propose More Generous Policy for the Disabled

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration will propose a more generous policy on Friday regarding the payment of cash benefits to disabled people under Social Security, Administration officials said today.
For the first time in nearly a decade, the Government will propose an increase in the amount of money that people may earn while receiving disability benefits. 
 The limit on earnings is now $500 a month, and it has been at that level since January 1990. The Commissioner of Social Security, Kenneth S. Apfel, will issue a proposed rule increasing the limit to $700, officials said. After reviewing public comments, the Commissioner has the authority to make the change, which would take effect on June 1.
Vice President Al Gore plans to announce the proposal on a visit to Albany on Friday.
"By proposing an increase in the allowable monthly earnings from $500 to $700 a month -- a 40 percent increase -- we are enabling Americans with disabilities to make the most of their abilities," Mr. Gore said in the text of his prepared remarks.
Social Security officials said the change could help 250,000 people a year. Those who receive disability benefits are automatically eligible for Medicare after a two-year waiting period, and for many, the Medicare coverage is even more valuable than the cash benefits.
Among those who sought the change is Tipper Gore, the Vice President's wife. Since the early 1980's, she has been a zealous advocate for people with mental illness and retardation.
Martha E. Ford, a lobbyist for the Arc, formerly known as the Association for Retarded Citizens, welcomed the proposed change.
"This is an important step, long awaited, and it will help a lot of people," Ms. Ford said. "It will make a significant difference for lower-income workers who are severely disabled and need continued support."
Ms. Ford said the change would benefit many people with disabilities who work at food service jobs or at entry-level positions in supermarkets and retail stores. Disabled workers earning $500 to $700 a month are now ineligible for benefits, but could qualify under the new policy.
The Administration plans to make a similar change in a related program, Supplemental Security Income. The White House said the changes, taken together, would cost the Government $1.2 billion over five years. Social Security benefits for disabled workers now average $733 a month.
Administration officials did not suggest any specific way to pay for the added benefits but said the cost would somehow be covered in the overall context of a balanced budget.
With unemployment now at 4.3 percent, the lowest level in 28 years, many employers have difficulty finding workers, and some say they are more willing to hire people with disabilities. Because of recent increases in the minimum wage, now $5.15 an hour, workers with disabilities are more likely to reach the earnings limit of $500 a month.
While people with disabilities have not generally been viewed as a big voting bloc, disability rights have won bipartisan support. President Clinton recently proposed a new tax credit and new health insurance options to help people with disabilities go back to work.
Two Republican Senators, William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware and James M. Jeffords of Vermont, have joined Mr. Clinton in supporting a bill that would expand Medicaid and Medicare so disabled people could retain their health benefits when they return to work. Former Senator Bob Dole, himself a disabled war veteran, urged Congress last week to pass the bill as a way to increase the number of disabled people who work and pay taxes.
Under Federal law, a person is said to be disabled if he or she is unable to engage in "substantial gainful activity" because of a physical or mental impairment that is expected to cause death or to last 12 months or more.
Under the current rules, if a person is earning more than $500 a month (after subtracting certain work expenses), he is considered to be engaging in substantial gainful activity and therefore not disabled.
The ultimate objective of the new policy is to help disabled people get jobs and become self-sufficient.
"If even a small fraction of the people receiving disability benefits could go to work," Mr. Gore said, "we would save billions of dollars in the long run."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); FDM (LSE) (83%); F (SWX) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DISABLED PERSONS (91%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); MENTAL RETARDATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BUDGETS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



253 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Blighted Promise in Zimbabwe

 BODY:
Few African countries have followed a more disappointing trajectory over the past two decades than Zimbabwe. Once a model of democracy, law and tolerance, this nation of 13 million people is becoming a fearful, militarized autocracy. President Robert Mugabe's latest diatribes against journalists and judges are particularly troubling. Zimbabwe's foreign friends, including the United States, must press Mr. Mugabe to halt this sad slide into tyranny.
The crisis began last month when Zimbabwe's army arrested and tortured two journalists who had reported a failed military coup attempt. Three supreme court justices then called on Mr. Mugabe to affirm the rule of law by reminding the army that it had no right to arrest civilians and that torture by anyone was unacceptable. Instead Mr. Mugabe defended the military's conduct, denounced the press and called on the justices to resign. 
 Independent Zimbabwe, born after guerrilla warfare and international diplomacy ended the injustices of white minority rule, at first embraced a philosophy of racial and social reconciliation. A new Constitution protected minority rights. White farmers were left on their land and even the white former Prime Minister, Ian Smith, retained a seat in Parliament. But as years passed, Mr. Mugabe grew obsessed about threats to his power and began demonizing critics of all varieties.
In the 1980's, his soldiers killed innocent civilians while crushing an insurgency based in the minority Ndebele people. Then he set out to marginalize political opposition groups and create a virtual one-party state. More recently he has turned against white landowners, student groups, labor unions and homosexuals. Official favoritism and corruption have marred his rule at home, while abroad he has sent Zimbabwean troops to prop up Congo's dictator, Laurent Kabila.
Mr. Mugabe should break off this costly and unpopular foreign adventurism and pay attention to Zimbabwe's own pressing needs, including rapidly rising food prices, severe unemployment and an AIDS epidemic now estimated to affect almost one in four adults. The growing economic pressures have brought months of unrest, to which the Government's main response has been repression. Instead of harassing potential opponents, Mr. Mugabe should, at age 74, be making room for new leaders to step forward when his term ends in 2002. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); COUPS (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); AIDS & HIV (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); FOOD PRICES (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT GABRIEL MUGABE (92%); IAN DOUGLAS SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



254 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Caldor Set to Begin Out-of-Business Sale

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Caldor Corporation said yesterday that it would receive about $223.7 million from a liquidators' group that will conduct going-out-of-business sales beginning today at its 145 stores.
The $223.7 million payment is based on Caldor's estimate that its inventory is worth $495 million, the company said. Caldor, a discount chain that has been in bankruptcy proceedings since 1995, said last month that it was going out of business, shutting all its discount stores, in nine East Coast states, and putting about 20,000 people out of work. 
 The group that will conduct the going-out-of-business sales includes Gordon Brothers Retail Partners, Schottenstein Bernstein Capital Group and the Ozer Group. The prices on Caldor's merchandise will be reduced between 20 percent and 60 percent, Caldor said.
The amount Caldor is receiving for its inventory is well below the $300 million a lawyer for Caldor's creditors had predicted.
In United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan last month, Martin Bienenstock, a lawyer for Caldor's prebankruptcy lenders, said the creditors thought Caldor could get $300 million for its inventory and $300 million for its real estate.
Wal-Mart Stores has said it bid about $75 million for the rights to 13 Caldor stores, and the Kohl's Corporation said it had agreed to acquire the rights to 33 stores for $142 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KSS (NYSE) (67%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (67%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALDOR CORP (93%); KOHL'S CORP (67%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); GORDON BROTHERS RETAIL PARTNERS LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



255 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Soars In Its Biggest One-Day Gain

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Powered by a dramatic rebound in computer-related issues, the Nasdaq soared more than 4 percent yesterday to its biggest one-day point gain ever as investors piled back into beaten-down technology and financial shares.
In the absence of any dominating new developments, analysts cited the cumulative weight of several lesser factors and for once found a public appearance by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, to be of little consequence. 
 All major gauges marched steadily higher through the session, with the blue chips of the Dow Jones industrial average posting a gain of 186.15 points, or 2.03 percent, to 9,363.46.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 30.49 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,254.04, and the Nasdaq composite index closed at 2,405.55, up 96.05 points.
"There's a resurgence of interest in the traditional growth areas," said David Dietze, the president of Point View Financial Services. "People are flocking back to the names that did so well coming off the October bottom."
I.B.M., for example, jumped 9 5/8, to 178 1/2, to pace the Dow, followed by Wal-Mart Stores, which was up 4 7/8, to 85 13/16 . Merck was up 4 1/2, to 150 3/4.
But there was also a strong appetite for new issues, with three initial public offerings more than doubling, the first such "triple double" on record, according to the Securities Data Company.
Among the reasons for the stock surge was a projection by Compaq Computer of strong sales to long-depressed Asian markets this year and a better-than-expected profit report from American International Group, an insurance company that boasts the biggest market capitalization of any purely financial company.
Compaq shares climbed 2 7/16 , to 44 13/16 , while American International rose 7 3/4, to 106 1/2.
Other analysts pointed to the approaching end of the impeachment trial of President Clinton and the no-news-is-good-news nature of Mr. Greenspan's Congressional appearance.
The Fed chairman told the House Banking and Financial Services Committee that he backed a bill that would make it easier for financial services companies to combine their businesses. He also said the move would help the nation's economy remain strong.
"I don't think there's any real reason" for the rally, said George Cohen, a principal at Cohen Klingenstein & Marks. "We just released some of the anxiety we'd built up."
But technology -- the subject of a Goldman, Sachs conference in New York this week that was said to lift the mood of specialists -- was the main attraction. The Nasdaq 100, even more heavily concentrated in computer-oriented stocks than the Nasdaq composite, leaped 5.17 percent led by gains of 6 5/16 for Cisco Systems, 4 7/16 for Intel, 5 7/8 for Oracle, 4 7/8 for Dell Computer, 2 1/8 for Microsoft, 16 1/8 for Yahoo and 12 7/16 for Amazon.com.
"There's a tremendous appetite on the part of investors to keep playing the growth story," said Eric M. Wiegand, a senior portfolio manager at First Union in Philadelphia.
The Nasdaq gain of 96.05 points was the biggest since the index was first compiled in 1971. This came just two days after the index's third-biggest point decline.
Among banks and other financial companies, American Express, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab each jumped 4 points or more.
Oil stocks were about the only prominent losers, with Royal Dutch Petroleum reporting worse than expected profits and Salomon Smith Barney cutting its 1999 estimate for Exxon, which fell 2 3/16 , to 70 3/8.
The strongest new issues were Healtheon, which marketed 5 million shares at 8 and closed at 31 3/8; Verticalnet, which sold 3.5 million shares at 16 and closed at 45 3/8, and Prodigy Communications, which sold 8 million shares at 15 and traded as high as 32 before closing at 28 1/8.
Two other initial public offerings were largely neglected. Gabelli Asset Management's 6 million shares edged up to 17 13/16 , from 17, while Korn/Ferry International's 11.75 million shares wound up at 13, a point below the offering price.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bond Prices Unchanged
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Bond prices were unchanged yesterday after the highest yields in three months drew investors to the Treasury's sale of $10 billion of new 30-year debt, capping $35 billion of United States note and bond sales this week.
"With the auctions out of the way, investors are breathing a sigh of relief," said Marc Fovinci, who helps oversee $1.6 billion at Ferguson, Wellman, Rudd, Purdy & Van Winkle Inc. in Portland, Ore.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 98 11/32 . The bond's yield remained at 5.36.
In the bond market, the new 5.25 percent securities due February 2029 drew a yield of 5.298 percent, the lowest since the Government started selling the securities on a regular basis 22 years ago.
 
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of a new 30-year bond and 65-day cash-management bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.282
Average Yield . . . 5.279%
High Yield . . . 5.298%
Low Yield . . . 5.220%
Total applied for . . . $21,844,044
Accepted . . . $11,349,444
Noncompetitive . . . $61,043
Interest set at . . . 5 1/4%
 
The 30-year bonds mature Feb. 15, 2029.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.191
Investment rate . . . 4.58%
High rate . . . 4.48%
Low rate . . . 4.38%
Median rate . . . 4.46%
Total applied for . . . $29,945,000
Accepted . . . $ 8,027,500
Noncompetitive . . . $0
 
The 65-day cash management bills mature April 22, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Jan. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%); GS (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES DATA CO INC (66%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); COHEN KLINGENSTEIN & MARKS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); IMPEACHMENT (67%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



256 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Surge in Low-Income Apartments in the Bronx

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
Some of the last vacant lots on streets in two neighborhoods of the South Bronx are filling with rental apartment buildings for people earning no more than $24,000 a year.
Among the new buildings are three projects recently completed or under way that together will produce 242 studio to two-bedroom rental apartments, each with 450 to 850 square feet. The units, which will rent for $380 to $580 a month, are in buildings not far from the East Tremont Avenue shopping district, on Hughes and Crotona Avenues in the Belmont section and on Jennings Street in Crotona Park, 15 blocks away. 
 The projects, each six to nine stories high and estimated to cost between $9 million and $12 million, are being developed by the Atlantic Development Group of Manhattan. They are being kept affordable to low-income tenants through a combination of Federal, state and city programs; one important element is the city's 421a tax certificate program.
Under this program, builders of modest-income housing receive transferable tax abatement certificates from the city for each low-income unit they build, certificates that can be sold to developers of market-rate housing in mid-Manhattan. By buying the certificates, the market-rate developers can reduce property taxes on their new buildings.
The strong luxury housing demand in Manhattan has helped to spur residential construction in lower-income neighborhoods. "The 421a certificate program expands the building boom in the city by leveraging the demand for market-rate housing to stimulate the production of needed low-income housing," said Russell A. Harding, president to the New York City Housing Development Corporation, which arranges financing for city-assisted housing.
For instance, proceeds from the sale of the certificates have helped finance about a dozen low-income projects that his agency alone worked on in the last year. Those projects together are to produce 805 low-income rental apartments, of which 545 units are to be in the Bronx, including the 242 rentals Atlantic is developing.
"The reality is that the huge demand for one-bedroom apartments that rent for $2,500 a month in Manhattan enables us to build the same size apartment in the Bronx and rent it out for $500," said Peter Fine, a principal at Atlantic Development.
Still, making the economics work in building new housing for those with lower incomes requires several financing sources. To build its three Bronx projects, which total about $29 million, Atlantic received $18 million in tax-exempt bond financing through the Housing Development Corporation and sold Federal tax credits amounting to $10 million to corporations or individuals who use the credits to reduce their income-tax liability. Atlantic then sold 1,200 tax certificates from the projects, raising $18 million to repay the construction loan. The company also invested $1 million of its own equity into the projects.
"It is like a giant jigsaw puzzle," Mr. Fine said. "The art is figuring out how to make all the pieces jibe."
The three new buildings are taking shape on what not long ago were empty, rubble-strewn lots. Atlantic bought two of the lots at a city auction and the third from a private owner, said Marc Altheim, another Atlantic principal.
In the last several years, more than 1,000 for-sale and rental units in one- to three-family homes have risen in the area. The projects are part of New York City's New Homes program, whose sponsors include the City Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the nonprofit New York City Housing Partnership, which serves as an intermediary between the city and private developers. Hundreds of additional units are planned for the neighborhoods.
A new elementary school opened on Arthur Avenue, two blocks from Atlantic's recently completed 72-unit building at 2111 Hughes Avenue, between 180th and 181st Streets. And a public field at the corner of Hughes Avenue and 181st Street is being refurbished.
Those factors encouraged Atlantic to move forward with its projects, Mr. Altheim said. He said 1,400 people responded to the lottery held last June for apartments in his company's Hughes Avenue building. Tenants started moving into that building earlier this month.
Among them is Diosa Santana, 45, who relocated from an apartment she shared with her daughter elsewhere in the Bronx to a studio in the building, ending her 18-month search for a new place to live.
Miss Santana, who works at a printing company in downtown Manhattan, said she had been frustrated by her search because most of the apartments she looked at were out of her economic reach. At one point, she said, she even considered renting a furnished room. "Now, I can breathe a little easier," she said of her new apartment. "It's safe and comfortable and gives people like me who don't make a lot of money an opportunity."
Mr. Altheim said lotteries would be held in April for apartments in the other two buildings that his company is constructing and expects to complete early this fall. One, with 86 units, is at 2130 Crotona Avenue, at the corner of 181st Street; the other, with 84 units, is at 950 Jennings Street, between Hoe and Vyse Avenues.
The community sponsor for all three projects is Health Industry Resources Enterprises, or HIRE, a local nonprofit organization. "The appearance of the new buildings enhances the neighborhoods, where there is a lack of decent housing for low-income tenants," said Alfred Argano, the group's executive director.
All three rental structures have been designed by the Manhattan architectural firm of Meltzer/Mandl and are clad with brick and a stuccolike material called drivet. Each building will have such amenities as an interior courtyard and community and laundry rooms. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX LAW (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); BONDS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



257 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Parachute for Pilots

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The thousands of American Airlines pilots who have called in sick as part of a messy labor standoff have adopted a time-honored union tactic -- a sort of strike without striking.
For the angry workers, such a tactic has some advantages. For one thing, it enables unions to shut down much of their employers' operations when they would otherwise be barred from striking under an existing contract, as is the case with the American pilots. 
 And, yes, there is another big advantage: While calling in sick, the pilots, members of the Allied Pilots Association, continue to get paid, something that would not happen if they went on strike.
"If it works, it's great," said Julius Getman, a labor law professor at the University of Texas. "All unions are looking around for ways to apply pressure that don't involve the dangers and losses of strikes."
While the sickout seems to be working well so far for the pilots' union, it has one major downside -- it greatly inconveniences and angers passengers, who, of course, are the lifeblood of any airline.
Union sickouts occur perhaps as frequently as an influenza outbreak. Every few years, New York City police, knowing they are barred from striking, catch the "blue flu." Last Christmas, several hundred flight attendants at Trans World Airlines called in sick. And several American Airlines pilots recall taking part in much smaller sickouts during the last two decades.
"It's as old as the hills," said David Walkowitz, a labor historian at New York University. "It's a way of trying to get around government or contract restrictions that would be imposed on strikers."
Fed up that hundreds of pilots have called in sick since Saturday, American Airlines, a unit of AMR, persuaded Judge Joe Kendall of Federal District Court in Dallas to order the pilots on Wednesday to return to work. But the airline and many passengers were stunned yesterday when 2,400 pilots of the airline's 9,200 phoned in sick -- the most of any day since the job action began -- forcing the cancellation of about half of American's flights.
This escalation pointed to another advantage of using sickouts. It is often hard for courts to punish union leaders for fomenting such job actions because sickouts often continue even when union leaders officially ask that they be stopped.
"Labor history demonstrates that sometimes when you violate a judge's order, that helps to build solidarity," Professor Getman said. "Pilots are guys who are basically tough guys. If this injunction builds the union's militancy, it's not at all in American Airlines' interest."
The pilots have called in sick primarily because they are angry about American's recent acquisition of Reno Air, a small Western airline, and the time American plans to take to integrate Reno's operations into its network. But the American pilots have longstanding complaints that previously culminated in an attempted strike two years ago.
Representatives of the pilots' union are expected to appear in court today to explain why the union is not in contempt of Judge Kendall's order. Late yesterday, the union issued a strong plea calling on the pilots to return to work.
"The pilots association is urging all of the pilots in compliance with the temporary restraining order to return to work if they're not sick," said Tom Kachmar, a union spokesman who is also a Dallas-based 767 captain for American. "As far as what each individual pilot is doing, I can't speak to that."
Some labor analysts and American Airlines managers have suggested that the union leaders may be giving a stream of winks and nods to encourage a continued sickout -- something the union denies. Behind the scenes, some company officials are saying a union vice president, Brian A. Mayhew, is responsible.
But Michael Boyd, chief executive of a Colorado-based consulting firm that once advised the union, said: "The union leadership cannot control its rank and file. At this point, it's the grass roots. The company's trying to say that it's Brian Mayhew, that he's the Darth Vader. That's just an orchestrated attack."
Among labor experts, there is agreement that it would be difficult for Judge Kendall to find individual pilots in contempt of his order. The reason: the airline might have to provide proof that pilots who called in sick were actually healthy.
If this tactic is so successful, why is it so rarely used? Most unions have the right to strike and feel no need to resort to sickouts. And the tactic often flops because not enough members are willing to take part.
Several labor experts said shrewd unions tried not to overuse the sickout tactic because it did severe damage to customer relations, thus hurting business and perhaps endangering union members' job security.
Since Saturday, tens of thousands of American passengers have had their travel plans disrupted.
"There's always a downside," said Mr. Boyd, the aviation consultant. "Guess who gets the short end of the stick -- the customer. You can imagine people saying, 'We have summer vacation coming up and we're going to fly United instead.' That's the long-term hurt of this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (57%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (57%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRCRAFT PILOTS (93%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (92%); AIRLINES (91%); STRIKES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); HISTORY (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); JUDGES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); INJUNCTIONS (62%); INFLUENZA (58%); POLICE FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: JOE KENDALL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



258 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Hopes for Improved Ties With China Fade

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Seven months after President Clinton's return from a picture-perfect trip to China, the promise of a new era in Chinese-American relations has faded, leaving the Administration grappling with an unexpected round of repression of human rights in China and a mounting perception in Congress that Beijing is threatening American security interests.
The high expectations set by Mr. Clinton in China have run up against a pessimistic tone set by political forces in both countries that Administration officials say are more intent on confrontation than cooperation. 
 Instead of showing signs of progress in its policy of "constructive engagement" with China, the Administration is facing a squall of China-bashing in Congress.
Even American business, which the Administration's China policy has particularly tried to assist and the loudest advocate of closer ties, is complaining about Beijing's new restrictions that the Administration has been unsuccessful modifying.
Stung by a bipartisan Congressional inquiry's findings that China stole sensitive American military technology, Administration officials say they are warily waiting for even more explosive details expected to be announced in March in a declassified report by the members of Congress who headed the inquiry.
And later this month, the Pentagon is expected to send to Congress its long-delayed classified report on security questions in the Taiwan Strait.
Officials and experts who have had sections of the report read to them said the Pentagon would find that in the early 1990's China had 60 missiles pointed at Taiwan but that since then the number has more than doubled. In three years, it predicts, China could have more than 600 missiles on its side of the strait.
That assessment, another Administration official said, is sure to create a "a new wave of calls about the China threat," in the region.
In the face of those obstacles, the Administration says its policy of "constructive engagement" still holds.
In the next two months, before a visit to Washington by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji on April 8, the Administration will be working hard to find some issue on which the two nations can find common ground, most likely the possibility of China's admission to the World Trade Organization.
Even that common ground may be elusive. As the Chinese economy suffers from slower growth, rising unemployment and stalled economic reforms, the incentive for the Chinese to make trade concessions so they can join the trade organization has diminished, economists say.
"The Administration thought after the Clinton trip that it had come to some tolerable modus vivendi with China," said Jonathan B. Pollack, a defense strategist at the Rand Corporation who recently visited China. "But it doesn't run very deep, there's a clear sense that the underpinnings are very fragile, and there's a very clear potential for a real reversal in the relationship."
The most immediate thorn for the Administration is how to deal with the regression in China's human rights policies in the last two months.
Administration officials argue that they never expected continued improvement in human rights after Mr. Clinton left China in July and that there is "no quick fix," as Harold Koh, the Assistant Secretary of State for human rights, said recently.
But the long prison sentences of 11 to 13 years imposed on three democracy campaigners in December took officials here by surprise.
"Obviously we were are unhappy about the arrests and have said so publicly, and from the President on down privately," said Samuel R. Berger, the President's national security adviser.
Traditionally, the clearest path for the Administration to register its objection to such a crackdown is to sponsor a resolution condemning China at the annual meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva. That is an annual opportunity for countries to record their disquiet at China's human rights policy in a forum that the Chinese authorities take seriously despite its relative obscurity.
Last year, in the face of a seemingly improved human rights climate in China and to the gratification of Beijing, the Administration decided for the first time since 1990 not to offer such a resolution.
But now, in what an official described as almost "insurmountable" pressure from Congress, the Administration is in the midst of a heated debate about whether to reverse last year's course and condemn the Chinese for the crackdown. Such a reversal could be embarrassing for Mr. Clinton, who at the end of his China trip said, "China has the right leadership at the right time."
The White House opposed moving against the Chinese in Geneva, Administration officials said, but became alarmed when a moderate Republican, Representative Doug Bereuter of Nebraska, chairman of the International Relations Subcommittee on Asia, said there would be an "explosion" in Congress if the Administration stayed quiet at Geneva.
Mr. Berger said the White House was now looking at what recommendation to make to Mr. Clinton about the Geneva conference, which starts on March 22 and runs until April 30. Inconveniently for the Administration, Prime Minister Zhu's visit to Washington is scheduled for the middle of the Geneva gathering.
On national security, the Administration faces a confluence of issues that may only intensify the problems in the relationship with China.
At the top of the list is the Administration's proposal, which China has vehemently criticized, to push forward plans for developing a theater missile defense system with Japan, South Korea and possibly Taiwan. The system, which is still in the design stage, has been promoted with new urgency by the Administration since the surprise firing by North Korea of a missile that flew over Japan and into the Pacific in August.
The Administration says the system would protect Japan and South Korea from North Korean missiles, but Taiwan's Government has shown interest in being part of the system, an interest the Administration has not discouraged.
The Chinese have interpreted the recent push on the theater missile defense system as hostile to their interests. A Pentagon official suggested that this was hardly surprising, since the system would affect the "heart of their military posture."
The coming release of a Pentagon report on the system, requested last year by Congress, is likely to heighten the debate. The Chinese have already raised the issue in a way that does not please the Administration.
During a visit to Washington in January, a senior Chinese arms control official, Sha Zukang, warned the Administration that pushing ahead with the missile defense system would sink any chance of China's joining a major international mechanism for controlling the spread of missile technology, the Missile Technology Control Regime. Nations that belong to the regime are bound not to export missile parts.
Mr. Sha made the warning at the same conference at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace where Mr. Berger announced that Washington would like China to join the control regime this year.
From the Administration's point of view, the brightest picture for achieving some progress with the Chinese in time for the Prime Minister's visit appears to be paving the way for China's entry to the World Trade Organization.
Urging China to make concessions so it can join the world's most important trade organization has been the focus of Mr. Clinton's efforts in the last three years to open China economically and politically.
But Western economists assert that this is one of the most inopportune times to be moving China toward the trade group. Instead of easing market access, American corporations complain, China has been tightening the rules for Western investors in the last few months, particularly in telecommunications.
And to belong to the trade organization, China would have to make such fundamental changes as freeing up the distribution system of roads and warehouses, which are now almost entirely in the hands of the military. The American business sector's frustration with the Administration's lack of progress at furthering investment in China is actually as much a frustration with the Chinese who refuse to be as market-oriented as some in business expect.
Mr. Berger said that the Administration wanted to persevere with the W.T.O. issue and that another delegation from the United States Trade Representative's office would go to China soon. He said that even though China was going through economic dislocations, the Chinese would also like to be part of the World Trade Organization before the Taiwanese, who are close to membership.
But he also acknowledged that the Chinese had to face the reality that the only way they could win membership was to make enough concessions to allow United States market access to China and to adhere to the rules of the organization.
"We've always said we would be flexible, but it must be an agreement that is justifiable on market grounds," he said.
Otherwise, Mr. Berger said, there is little chance that Chinese membership will be approved by Congress.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



259 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rejects Pre-emptive Guilty Plea in a Murder Case

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Siding with prosecutors, a Dutchess County judge yesterday rejected an attempt by the defendant in a serial murder case to plead guilty and avoid the death penalty.
The judge, Thomas J. Dolan, ruled that the attempt by Kendall L. Francois to plead guilty before the prosecutor announced whether he would seek the death penalty was a premature and unlawful action that would undermine the judicial process. 
 The judge also suggested that if the plea were allowed to go through, he would be endorsing "a race to the courthouse" to enter a guilty plea and "a loss of any meaningful plea bargaining."
Mr. Francois, an unemployed school aide, was arrested last September and charged with murdering eight prostitutes and hiding their decaying remains at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He later confessed to the crimes. And in December, he tried to plead guilty -- with a maximum sentence of life without parole -- before prosecutors even announced whether they would seek the death penalty.
But William V. Grady, the Dutchess County District Attorney, asked the judge to reject the attempt to plead, saying that it was contrary to the spirit of a fresh ruling by the State Court of Appeals that voided most of the plea-bargaining provisions in the state's death penalty law.
Given the tendency of judges to defer to prosecutors in procedural matters relating to criminal cases, the ruling by Judge Dolan did not shock anyone. In a statement, Mr. Grady said that his office was pleased, and in an interview, Randolph F. Treece, a lawyer for Mr. Francois, said that he was disappointed but not surprised. He said he was considering appealing the judge's ruling.
Even without the element of surprise, though, lawyers and legal scholars had been talking for weeks about the issues raised by Mr. Francois's attempted plea, saying that the case was not only a test of the Court of Appeals' recent ruling but that it also exposed weaknesses in the state's death penalty law.
New York is the only state whose death penalty law carries a different maximum punishment for a plea bargain and for a conviction trial. Given that, the Court of Appeals, in considering several unrelated cases, ruled on Dec. 22 that the death penalty law unfairly encouraged defendants to plead guilty rather than risk a death sentence by going to trial.
The next day, Mr. Francois's lawyers tried to enter a guilty plea to all 17 counts of murder and assault in the deaths of the 8 women.
The plea, his lawyers said, was based on their reading of the Court of Appeals ruling to mean that a defendant could plead guilty to the maximum sentence, without prosecutorial consent, before the 120-day window in which prosecutors were given to decide whether to pursue the death penalty had expired.
And many lawyers -- including the president of the New York State District Attorneys Association -- hinted that they agreed with that interpretation.
But Mr. Grady disagreed, and he announced on Dec. 24 that he would seek the death penalty.
In yesterday's ruling, Judge Dolan -- who, prior to his election in 1992 had worked for 20 years as an assistant district attorney in Dutchess County -- dismissed the defendant's "narrow, technical interpretation" as one that would render existing law "totally ineffective and meaningless."
As a result, the only time it would be possible for Mr. Francois to plead guilty would be if -- and only if -- the District Attorney decides to seek the death penalty and then later withdraws that notice, Judge Dolan wrote -- a set of circumstances that is a remote possibility.
Opponents of the death penalty said that they were discouraged, even baffled, by Judge Dolan's decision, saying that it would be even more difficult for murder defendants to receive a fair trial.
"The judge is turning legislative intent totally on its head, and he is turning the logic of the Court of Appeals on its head," said Ronald J. Tabak, president of New York Lawyers Against the Death Penalty, who added that the judge had misinterpreted the Appeals Court's decision.
In Poughkeepsie, meanwhile, reaction was muted, and somewhat apprehensive about the prospect of a trial.
Many relatives of Mr. Francois's victims, for instance, had urged Judge Dolan to toss out the plea, saying that they wanted to see Mr. Francois tried and executed. But Patricia A. Barone, whose daughter, Gina, was one of Mr. Francois's victims, earlier wrote to Judge Dolan urging him to accept the guilty plea to "stop all this publicity" and avert a protracted trial saturated with grisly details.
Yesterday, Ms. Barone seemed resigned about the judge's decision. "It's all right, it's done," she said. "He has his legitimate reasons and I had mine. I had the interests of people who are alive at heart, rather than revenge for Gina's death."
She added, bitterly, that she would never attend Mr. Francois's trial.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GUILTY PLEAS (94%); JUDGES (94%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (88%); LITIGATION (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: KENDALL L FRANCOIS (95%); THOMAS J DOLAN (91%); WILLIAM V GRADY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



260 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Big Insurer Posts 14% Increase in Earnings

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
American International Group Inc., the largest United States insurer by market value, said yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings grew 14 percent, driven by profit from derivatives trading and other financial services traditionally dominated by securities firms and banks.
Earnings without gains on investments rose to $989.7 million, or 94 cents a diluted share, from $870.8 million, or 83 cents, in the period a year earlier. Its stock climbed 8 percent, its biggest gain in almost four months, as the New York-based company's profit exceeded analysts' estimates. 
 The company's chairman and chief executive, Maurice Greenberg, has turned American International, an insurer founded in Shanghai in 1919, into one of the world's biggest financial companies by getting into businesses like trading derivatives that hedge against changes in interest rates and currency values, and leasing aircraft.
Shares of American International rose $7.75, to $106.50, in trading of 4.7 million shares, more than twice the daily average in the last three months. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (AIG) AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (AIG)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (53%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: MAURICE R GREENBERG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



261 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Boston Scientific to Eliminate 2,000 Jobsas It Cuts Capacity

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NATICK, Mass., Feb. 11

 BODY:
The Boston Scientific Corporation will eliminate 2,000 jobs, or 18 percent of its work force, over the next year as the company cuts capacity duplicated by its acquisition of Schneider Worldwide.
The changes will cost Boston Scientific about $62 million, mostly in severance and related expenses, company officials said today. 
 About $36 million of the costs were included on the company's books in the purchase price of Schneider. The remaining $26 million will be taken as a charge in the fourth quarter. Earnings for Boston Scientific are due out later this month.
It was not immediately clear whether a total of 2,000 people would lose their jobs, or if some of the positions to be eliminated are already empty. The company currently has 11,000 employees.
A spokesman for the company did not immediately return telephone messages.
Boston Scientific paid $2.1 billion for Schneider Worldwide, a former unit of Pfizer Inc. that makes devices used to unclog arteries. The purchase was announced in June.
At that point, it was the 11th purchase Boston Scientific had made since 1995, and brought the total amount the company spent on acquisitions during that period to $5.6 billion.
Boston Scientific had not been without problems, however.
In November, the company's stock fell 11 percent in a single day after officials announced they had discovered accounting irregularities with a Japanese subsidiary.
Shipped products were being improperly recorded as sales, totaling $40 million to $50 million in the nine-month period ending Sept. 30, 1998. An additional $40 million in shipments were improperly recorded in earlier periods, company officials said.
Further, the Justice Department has been investigating clinical trials of a heart device that was marketed and later recalled by Boston Scientific.
Company officials said they were cooperating with the investigation.
Boston Scientific is a medical technology company that develops and manufactures diagnostic and therapeutic devices. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (96%); PFZ (LSE) (69%); PFE (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (96%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (96%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (96%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (BSX) BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (96%); PFIZER INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (BSX)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (55%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



262 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Yet Another Day of Canceled Flights Troubles Travelers and Tourist Officials

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The tourist industry's high hopes that accompanied the court order issued Wednesday requiring pilots of American Airlines to return to work were dashed yesterday, as the airline was still forced to cancel nearly 1,200 flights -- many to popular holiday and vacation resorts in Florida and the Caribbean.
Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport resounded with the sounds of happy travelers bound for ski resorts in Colorado and other Western states, but American flights to warm-weather destinations were canceled left and right because many pilots continued to call in sick. 
 At John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, hundreds of American ticket holders waited in line, some as much as eight hours, in fading hopes of getting away for the holiday or a vacation.
"There is absolutely no customer service," said Sandra Lowe, who arrived at Kennedy with her husband and two daughters at 6 A.M. to catch an early plane to Barbados for a family reunion. Five hours later, Ms. Lowe was still waiting in a virtually immobile line, fatigued and annoyed.
Would she fly American again? "I would avoid it at all costs," Ms. Lowe said.
John Hotard, a spokesman at American's parent, the AMR Corporation, said that 1,170 flights had been canceled, but declined to specify which routes had been affected.
But he said, "I can tell you there have been many cancellations of international flights, including flights to the Caribbean, from New York and Miami."
Other airlines said that they would continue to honor American tickets to the best of their ability, but that their own flights were rapidly filling with normal holiday passengers and American customers looking for alternative flights.
"There are almost no seats left to South Florida," said Todd Clay, a spokesman for Delta Air Lines, "but if people are flexible and determined, they still might be able to get where they want to go."
Trans World Airlines added two flights on Tuesday and Wednesday between New York and Santo Domingo and Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic, accommodating 400 American passengers.
Even if they have empty seats, rival airlines said they would accommodate only those American passengers holding tickets that had not been acquired using frequent-flier miles. And American customers who are assigned seats on other airlines will be eligible to receive frequent-flier miles only from the host airline.
Still, frequent-flier miles were probably not foremost on the minds of travelers milling around many major airports, expecting to take American flights. At Miami International Airport, for example -- where "canceled" appeared on the information boards for American flights to Puerto Rico, Grenada, Jamaica, Mexico City, the Grand Caymans and many Central and South American nations -- the line of passengers hoping to fly to Mexico and the Caribbean was so long that it collided with the lines for domestic check-in, around the corner.
Bernice Wynter, a nurse from Lauderdale Lakes, Fla., was in that line hoping to arrive in Barbados for a wedding. "I got to Fort Lauderdale airport and the flight was canceled, so they sent me here," she said. Like many other American passengers, Ms. Wynter appeared more resigned and frustrated than angry.
Some of American's five daily nonstops from Dallas to New Orleans were also canceled, just as the city's two-week Mardi Gras celebration was building to its Fat Tuesday peak, now four days off. Hotels there reported few cancellations, according to Beverly Gianna, a spokeswoman for the city's tourist bureau, largely because many of the estimated 350,000 visitors to the city during the carnival drive there. Moreover, the dominant carriers in New Orleans are Southwest Airlines and Continental Airlines.
While American flights to San Juan were canceled, the carrier's regional airline, American Eagle, has continued to operate from San Juan throughout the Caribbean. Its pilots belong to a different union.
Still, Michael Youngman, the executive director of the Caribbean Tourism Organization, called yesterday's cancellations "really bad news." Almost all the 33 member governments in the group, which include Mexico as well as the tiny island of Saba, rely heavily on tourism from the United States. Most are also heavily dependent on American and American Eagle, which account for almost 70 percent of the region's air traffic.
Asked about the sickout's economic impact on the Caribbean, Mr. Youngman replied, "By next week I should be able to tell you, but with everything changing by the hour, it's impossible to know now."
Jean Holder, the secretary general of the organization, was scheduled to take an American flight on Wednesday from Barbados to New York for a series of meetings, but managed to switch to BWIA International at the start of the sickout. Finding it necessary to return to Barbados tomorrow -- when most scheduled flights are sold out or canceled -- he was able to find a seat on a British Airways Concorde, only the second Concorde flight ever from the United States to Barbados.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); MEXICO (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); BARBADOS (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GRENADA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMR CORP (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); MEXICO (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); BARBADOS (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GRENADA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); FAMILY (67%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (71%); JOHN F KENNEDY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



263 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Pluralism Under Golden Arches;
From Abroad, McDonald's Finds Value in Local Control

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: OAK BROOK, ILL., Feb. 11

 BODY:
In Austria, Indonesia and South Korea, McDonald's sells Big Macs and Happy Meals. But its Vienna franchises also contain "McCafes," which offer coffee blended for local tastes. In Jakarta, the McDonald's menu includes rice as well as french fries. And in Seoul, the burger chain sells roast pork on a bun with a garlicky soy sauce.
That combination of a globally recognized brand with a flexible menu that caters to local palates has helped McDonald's navigate the global economic turbulence that has knocked most of the other big corporations operating around the world way off course.
For the 15th consecutive year, the McDonald's Corporation has achieved solid growth in its international division, which now accounts for nearly 60 percent of corporate profits. No other American multinational has enjoyed such consistent success abroad, particularly lately amid the dizzying plunges in local currencies and economic activity in much of Asia and Latin America. McDonald's says a large part of the reason it has done so well is that its operations overseas are run by local residents who are attuned to changing economic conditions and consumer tastes. 
 Now, McDonald's is testing a variation on the theme that "all business is local" in the United States, where since the mid-1990's the fast-food giant has been wrestling with a dramatic and widely publicized fall from grace. And after a period of growing concerns over declining food quality, shrinking market share and a generally falling stock price, profits at McDonald's appear to be on their way up at home as well as abroad.
Indeed, after a few years of fumbles, Wall Street analysts say there are signs that McDonald's is climbing back -- in large part following the course charted abroad -- by decentralizing marketing and decision making.
Senior executives now say they are committed to more local control, and what Jack M. Greenberg, the new chief executive, calls a "shared vision" of the future.
"You can't manage 25,000 restaurants in a centralized way," Mr. Greenberg said in an interview at the company headquarters here in this Chicago suburb. "Many decisions need to be decided closer to the marketplace; you have faster decisions that way."
Two weeks ago, when McDonald's reported its fourth-quarter and year-end results, foreign sales and profits were strong, up about 10 percent, despite widespread weakness overseas. In the United States, the improvement was even more striking. Operating profits were up 13 percent, more than double what they were in 1997 and the best yearly gain since 1985.
While McDonald's still has plenty of problems, investors have become increasingly optimistic. Its shares have soared 63 percent the last year, closing at $82 today, up $2.125.
"I think they've turned a corner," said Mitchell Speiser, who covers the fast-food business for Lehman Brothers. "They have culturally, operationally and strategically turned the corner."
Yet the new approach carries its own set of quandaries. For instance, some analysts say that in reinventing the company, McDonald's runs the risk of scrambling the formula dreamed up by the late Ray Kroc. That formula gave McDonald's uniform quality and unified marketing themes, such as "You Deserve a Break Today," and a consistent and distinctly American batch of winning products that came to be symbolized by the Golden Arches.
McDonald's officials may also face an uphill battle as they try to meet their goals of improving profits by 10 to 15 percent a year the next five years, analysts say. After all, McDonald's is already a $35 billion company with more than 12,400 restaurants in the United States alone, and stiff competition is coming from Wendy's, Burger King and even unlikely competitors like the Carl's Jr. hamburger chain in California and a reviving Jack-in-the-Box.
What Mr. Greenberg, the 56-year-old former accountant who took over as chief executive in August, would most like to reverse is a lengthy series of corporate miscues that began in the mid-1990's, when McDonald's was trying aggressively to expand its operations with big promotions.
New products, like the Arch Deluxe, flopped. New promotions, like "Campaign 55," a deep-discount program that was supposed to hark back to the Eisenhower era by offering 55-cent burgers fizzled. Burger King and Wendy's began to gain market share. And McDonald's food was widely seen as subpar, ranking in one food quality taste test not that long ago just below Hooters, and, in one customer satisfaction survey, just ahead of the Internal Revenue Service.
In mid-1997, the company dropped its lead advertising agency, Leo Burnett & Company, in favor of Omnicom Group's DDB Needham unit, which created the "Did somebody say McDonald's?" campaign. And last year, the company elevated Mr. Greenberg from the head of United States operations to chief executive.
Since then, sales at restaurants open at least a year have improved substantially, the company said. And after slipping in 1996 and 1997, McDonald's share of the fast-food market has reached its highest level in a decade, 43 percent of the market, according to Technomics, a market research firm in Chicago.
A new McDonald's is emerging, analyst say, that helps explain its improved standing in Wall Street circles. Since Mr. Greenberg took over, the more flexible cooking system is generating somewhat higher customer satisfaction. And strained relations with franchise operators have improved.
"This is a different management style," said Paul Saber, chairman of the National Leadership Council, a group that represents franchise operators. "Jack's attitude is to get to know owner operators and their issues; he's brought a spirit of working together."
A sense of denial about McDonald's failings appears to have been replaced in recent months by an almost ritualistic desire to confess past sins. "In retrospect, we lost our way back in mid-1994." Michael Conley, the company's chief financial officer, said in an interview last week. "We were trying to drive the company almost exclusively with national advertising."
Mr. Greenberg reorganized the company's domestic operations into five divisions. He gave owners of McDonald's independent franchises a more collaborative role in marketing and advertising and a say in the menu. The company has also agreed to pay half the cost of what McDonald's calls its "Made For You" food preparation system. The new system, which is not available at all outlets, is arranged to keep bread, lettuce, onions and other ingredients fresh and allow McDonald's assembly line process to accommodate new menu items.
The company also slowed its growth in the United States, where rapid expansion led to concerns about cannibalizing existing McDonald's outlets.
Unprofitable, low-volume satellite operations in places like Wal-Mart stores were closed; faster drive-throughs, cleaner stores and better food quality are high priorities, executives say. And it is all in the spirit of inclusiveness and decentralization, the backbone of foreign operations.
In McDonald's international division, local managers and franchise operators have long had substantial control over how they do business. The locals create a supply infrastructure within each country or region; everything is financed in the local currency. And a great deal of attention is paid to local customs, like food tastes.
"Our strategy is to be as much a local business as possible," said Jim Cantalupo, head of international operations. "We don't run Spain out of Portugal."
That decentralization allowed local managers in Indonesia to add rice quickly after the currency collapsed in 1997, which made french fries -- its main imported product -- much too expensive. And it has paid off in other places hit hard by global market forces.
"We've got a lot of experience dealing with down markets," Mr. Cantalupo said. "We've dealt with six Government economic plans in Brazil."
While other multinational companies like Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble suffered sharp earnings declines in 1998, McDonald's -- despite a dip in Asia -- still posted operating profit gains of 9 percent overseas. "International is the locomotive here," said Dean T. Haskell, an analyst at Everen Securities in Chicago.
Though pleased with 1998 results, Mr. Greenberg knows that one strong year is just one strong year. He says the company is hardly complacent.
"We've got a lot of hard work ahead," he said.
At the same time, the company has become more attuned to Wall Street, buying back a big chunk of its own stock and announcing a 2-for-1 split last month, which investors applauded.
Still, one advertising executive, who agreed to speak only if he was not named, said that while McDonald's had righted itself financially, it might have lost some of its marketing bravado. The company has pinned its hopes on Teenie Beanie Baby promotions and Disney movie tie-ins. "The market's only as loyal as the next Beanie Baby promotion or the next Disney movie," he said. "What happens when the movies flop? Does everyone run to Burger King for Rugrats cups?"
Some analysts also question whether McDonald's brand loyalty among older customers has begun to wane and whether the recent rise in profits was simply a minor tuneup on a motor that may have passed its prime.
"They certainly have more outlets and more distribution with the lowest price points," said Mr. Haskell of Everen. "But more and more people are looking for variety and quality. The quick drive-through is becoming less of a factor."
Mr. Haskell and others cite the success of Starbuck's coffee, Einstein Bagels and other more specialized food chains.
But Mr. Greenberg and other executives say they are responding to such concerns. In tune with its decentralized foreign operations, McDonald's is experimenting more actively with new sandwiches and foods in regional tests in hopes of re-creating the success of the Egg McMuffin, which was born in San Diego, and the Big Mac, which took root in Pittsburgh.
The Big Extra, which some say is like a Burger King Whopper, was tested in the Northeast and is now being offered nationwide. The McFlurry, a soft ice cream with candy, spread across the country last year. A salad that comes in a plastic container that customers use to shake up their dressing is in tests as McSalad. And there are additional products in the works.
"We have more things in test now than at any time in my 24 years here," said Mr. Conley, the chief financial officer.
The company will experiment and innovate, officials say. But while decentralized operations are the new mantra, McDonald's, executives say, will still be McDonald's.
"Decentralization doesn't mean chaos or anarchy," Mr. Greenberg said. "The things that make McDonald's distinct are going to be there. Those things aren't negotiable."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by Carl Sharif/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "McDonald's has been strong overseas . . ."
Despite economic turmoil in Asia and elsewhere, McDonald's has kept sales and profits growing even as many other multinationals have stumbled. Graph shows percentage change in international sales and operating profit from previous year, from 1994 through 1998.
 
". . . so it is now applying those methods here."
Adapting lessons learned abroad, such as giving local managers more control, McDonald's is finally improving at home. Graph shows percentage change in domestic sales and operating profit from previous year, from 1994 through 1998. (Source: McDonald's)(pg. C7)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (MCD) MCDONALD'S CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP (MCD)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FOOD AND COOKING FAST FOOD (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); BRANDING (71%); BRAND EQUITY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (62%); 

PERSON: JACK M GREENBERG (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



264 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: AMERICAN AIRLINES SNARLED AS PILOTS DEFY COURT ORDER

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
Defying a Federal judge's order to end their protest and return to work, more pilots called in sick at American Airlines yesterday, forcing the carrier to cancel more than half of its flights and insuring that its operations would be crippled during the Presidents' Day holiday.
The disruption at American, which entered its sixth day, continued to upset the plans of tens of thousands of travelers and businesses around the world. The airline, the nation's second largest, said that it had already canceled 500 flights scheduled for today, a number that it said would most likely rise, because planes are out of position. Passengers will have fewer alternatives because most airlines are expected to be full. Page C4. 
 American filed a motion for contempt in United States District Court in Texas yesterday, contending that the Allied Pilots Association, the union that represents American's 9,200 pilots, had not complied with Judge Joe Kendall's order on Wednesday to end the sickout. A hearing in Dallas is scheduled for 10 A.M. today.
"We are confident that the judge will be satisfied that we are doing what we have to do to comply with the order," said Rich LaVoy, the union's president.
Union representatives and the airline also met yesterday to try to negotiate an end to the dispute. Brian A. Mayhew, an American captain who is vice president at the union, said that limited progress was made on one issue but several core issues still needed to be addressed. The two sides are scheduled to meet again this afternoon.
American said that the number of pilots calling in sick rose to 2,400 yesterday from 2,295 on Wednesday. Normally, 400 pilots are out sick. As a result of the absences, the airline was forced to ground 1,170, or more than half, of its 2,250 daily flights, compared with 1,000 on Wednesday.
The pilots, many of whom are embittered after years of poor labor relations at the airline, are angry about the way American plans to integrate Reno Air, a small Airline in the West that it bought in December for $124 million. American has said that it intends to take a year to 18 months to merge the two carriers. The pilots want the integration to go faster, and they want Reno Air pilots and their members paid as if the integration were already completed.
Some pilots began calling in sick on Saturday after negotiations between the union and the airline broke down. More joined in, quickly escalating the number of canceled flights before American went to court on Wednesday.
"From the numbers it doesn't appear that those pilots who have called in sick are complying with the judge's order," said John Hotard, a spokesman for American Airlines.
But the union said that it was in full compliance. After giving the judge's order an ambiguous endorsement early yesterday in a telephone message to members, the union issued a stronger statement later yesterday, saying that it did not "authorize, ratify or condone" a sickout or a slowdown. "We further instruct all pilots to resume their normal working schedule and to otherwise comply with Judge Kendall's order," it added.
Even with the stronger language by the union, it was still difficult to determine how many pilots would return to the cockpit. "That is what the leadership has to say," said one pilot on the sick list who insisted on anonymity, referring to the union's order to return to work.
Federal regulations require pilots to take themselves out of the cockpit if they are sick, suffering from stress or otherwise not fit to fly. Many veteran pilots have dozens of sick days that allow them to stay on the sick list and still get paid.
Some of the protesting pilots argue that the court order applies only to the union's leadership, not to pilots acting on their own. But Chris Gangemi, a labor lawyer in the Chicago office of Winston & Strawn who often represents management, said that was not true. "It would be surprising if the court would tolerate this continuing injury to the public under the fiction that the union has no control over the situation," he said.
During Wednesday's hearing, Judge Kendall asked Sandy Denison, the lawyer for the union, "Are you actually standing here telling me the pilots are sick?" Mr. Denison responded, "No."
Estimates of the financial damage to the AMR Corporation, American's parent, rose with yesterday's canceled flights. Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline analyst at Paine Webber in New York, said that the sickout would reduce AMR's revenue for the quarter by $82 million to $110 million and cut its earnings by 25 to 40 cents a share if American's operations began returning to normal today. He also said that the company might lose an additional $50 million in lost bookings from customers who switched to other airlines. The consensus estimate for AMR's earnings for the quarter was $1.17 a share before the disruptions began.
American officials estimate that it would take two to three days to return operations to normal. The sickout has left many planes out of position for their normal routes, which is why the airline is predicting more cancellations regardless of what the pilots do.
Even if the pilots return to work today, a settlement between the union and the company will be needed to begin to break down the pilots' mistrust of management. Many pilots trace their ill will to the reign of Robert L. Crandall, AMR's former chairman and chief executive who retired in May.
"He was such a tough person to deal with he created his counterpart in the union," said one pilot not on the sick list who spoke on the condition that his name not be used.
Donald J. Carty, Mr. Crandall's successor, began his tenure pledging to improve management-labor relations and make American a happier place to work. He has tried to allay the pilots' fears that acquiring Reno Air is a ploy to lower pilot pay rates at American, pledging that he is committed to bringing Reno Air's pilots under the union's contract.
But in a short time Mr. Carty has managed to alienate even those pilots who are critical of the union's hard-liners. "I am really shocked," said the pilot who has not called in sick. "I would hope that the company would do more in the way to negotiate. I like Carty. He is a likable guy, but he is just as tough in his own way as Crandall was."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map: Cities served by American Airlines in the United States, Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (56%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (56%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS AND JUDGES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT AIRLINES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: JOE KENDALL (69%); SANDY DENISON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



265 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Nickel-and-Diming on a Tax Break

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Flirting With a Buy Order for $1 Trillion in Stock" (Week in Review, Feb. 7): Projections of 6 percent to 7 percent returns over the next 75 years are based on the history of stock earnings over the the last 75 years. But forecasts of the Social Security trustees, upon which expectations of a long-term trust fund deficit are based, predict a 50 percent slowdown in economic growth. If growth slows, so do profits, stock prices and dividends. A stock market return of 3.5 percent, not much more than the returns to Social Security, is more consistent with the trustees' forecast. 
 If the economists you cite are right, growth and stock earnings will be higher. But so will Social Security payroll tax revenue. In that case, the trust fund's deficit will shrink substantially, making it unnecessary to risk playing the stock market to raise more revenue.
 
JEFF FAUX
Pres., Economic Policy Institute
Washington, Feb. 8, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Brian Rea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



266 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Stronger Military Without the Draft

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Draft Isn't the Answer" (Op-Ed, Feb. 10): 
 Some people have painted the recent shortages of military personnel as symptomatic of the younger generation's lack of civic commitment. The real problem, however, lies in Congressional misuse of the military budget. If a small portion of our considerable defense expenditures were used to raise military salaries, then entry into the armed forces would once again present a viable alternative for young people entering the civilian economy.
Instead, politicians funnel billions of dollars into the production and maintenance of unnecessary hardware, which serves only to enrich their constituencies. Responsible use of money, not reinstitution of the draft, will strengthen our national defense.
 
JOSEPH MOLDOVER
Easton, Pa., Feb. 10, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



267 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIAL: THE SCENE -- CAPITOL SKETCHBOOK;
A Long, Long, Long Day Before the Verdict

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11

 BODY:
"I'm O.K., but my butt's getting flat," said Senator Frank H. Murkowski who is big and bluff like his home state of Alaska.
"It's an awful long day," he said, lumbering back to the trial cloister as the impeachment deliberation hours dwindled toward a verdict. 
 Down the corridor, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, sounded vaguely like someone trapped in a building: "I'm doing just fine. I drink lots of water and move around a bit."
There were moments today when the Capitol countdown to the verdict in President Clinton's trial offered all the historic aura of a bus terminal. As on other recent days, bystanders were more likely to quote not the founding fathers but Richard D. Llamas, the unemployed carpenter arrested a week ago when he rose in the gallery and shouted down to the senators: "God almighty, take the vote and get it over with!"
Lingering in his Senate hideaway after a formal trial recess, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, sat in a wing chair and slowly described the court scene. "It's going on and on," he said. "And on and on," he continued, the "on" sounding a New England-nasal dirge. "And on and on and on and on."
With a can of Diet Coke resting on his thigh, the Senator sat back and wondered about his court colleagues. "I hope the secret doesn't leak out that I'm not down there," he said, fully masking any regret.
In a passing corridor scene, Senator Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, asked no one in particular, "What is today? The eleventh?" He was signing a Senate autograph sheet for a tourist clearly wise in the provenance requirements of marketable historic artifacts. "It was my day on the treadmill," the Senator mused happily as he signed, speaking of aerobics, not impeachment.
Down the hall, Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia, first said "no," then "yes" when asked if the task grew tedious. "It is tedious if you look at it minute to minute," he conceded, "but not in terms of its historic meaning. The deal is either he's thrown out of office or he's not: That's all that counts."
In 1868, when the Senate court wrestled through long, doubt-crazed deliberations for the one-vote acquittal in President Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial, the waiting period was excruciating and a source of great enterprise among newspaper correspondents and other Capitol workers.
"Wagers figuring up an enormous total were laid on the issue," Francis A. Richardson, a trial correspondent, later recalled of the tense speculations about the momentous question of whether the nation would see its President banished from office. Without benefit of focus group or public opinion poll, W. W. Johnson, a Presidential secretary, won thousands of dollars when President Johnson "escaped by the skin of his teeth," in the regretful words of one of his antagonists, Senator Charles Sumner.
Today, no one in the Capitol was offering even long-shot perfecta odds against the widely anticipated verdict of acquittal in President Clinton's trial. The only really open question stirred not a sous of action: whether the Senate Republicans, considered certain to fall short of the necessary 67 votes to oust Mr. Clinton, might embarrass House Republican prosecutors further by not mustering even a simple majority on either impeachment article.
"The aftermath will be the aftermath; I'm not really concerned about it," said one Republican, Senator Connie Mack of Florida.
The day was beautiful outside the Capitol, a balmy foretaste of spring. Six hours after first gathering, a few senators emerged into the sunlight on a coffee break to wander and stare, as if in deliberation of life's undeniable power to regenerate.
"You can't help but like Bill Clinton," admitted Senator Burns, as he walked past the television camera pen on the Capitol lawn, talking gently. "I mean, just think had this thing not come along in his Presidency -- the talent he had has pretty much been squandered. And that's the real sadness of the whole thing."
The Senator did not discuss his eventual verdict as he ruminated on finding himself and his colleagues in the extraordinary position of settling the President's fate.
"I just got a feeling the Senate's here not to be a weathervane but a compass," he said, lingering beyond the Capitol.
"I think we followed the Constitution as the founders would have us," Mr. Burns said, addressing the fact that there is more than one politician's legacy at stake in the trial. "I think the founders are still speaking to us today. You get a feeling every now and then that we will test the generations to follow us on their degree of dedication that we are a land of laws and not of men."
The Senator suddenly laughed out loud. "I ran for the office and everything that goes with it," he said. "And we've got it all -- the good, the bad, the ugly."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reporters read the paper yesterday in the hall outside the Senate chamber as senators held a closed session. The final deliberations seemed to drag on for some senators. "I drink lots of water and move around a bit," said Senator Robert F. Bennett of Utah. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF UTAH (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF UTAH (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VERDICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ACQUITTAL (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (61%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BENNETT (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



268 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIAL: THE POLITICS;
Republicans Respond Angrily to Reports of Clinton Vow

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11

 BODY:
Top Republicans today pounced on reports that President Clinton wants to seek retribution at the ballot box against those who have pushed for his impeachment.
"This is the height of arrogance," said Representative Christopher B. Cannon, a Utah Republican and one of 13 House prosecutors in the impeachment trial. 
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said that instead of vengeance, the President should be worrying about "leaving an eensy-weensy, itsy-bitsy better legacy than he has so far."
"It's a sad day if revenge is the order of the day," Mr. Hatch added. "If I were the President, I'd worry about rehabilitation."
And Jim Nicholson, national chairman of the Republican National Committee, criticized Mr. Clinton's electoral mission in the most searing and personal of terms.
"Unlike you, I've seen real combat," Mr. Nicholson said bitterly, as if speaking to the President, "and you'll have to get by me first."
Mr. Nicholson, a decorated Army Ranger who served in Vietnam, reflected the longstanding cultural wars that seem to lurk just beneath the surface of the partisan impeachment battle. More broadly, he reflected the Republicans' anger that the politically adroit Mr. Clinton, who avoided the draft in the 1960's and is on the verge of avoiding conviction in the Senate, would outmaneuver them once again.
Stirring these sentiments was a report today in The New York Times that Mr. Clinton was committed to an all-out campaign to take back the House, both to rescue his political legacy from the yearlong impeachment ordeal and to exact revenge on those Republicans who he believes dragged out the process. On Friday, the Senate is expected to acquit Mr. Clinton of charges that he committed perjury and obstructed justice.
Advisers to the President said today that he was furious that word had leaked of his private ruminations, which counter his publicly expressed desire to work with Congress. Several said he was trying to ferret out the source of the report.
The White House press secretary, Joe Lockhart, did not deny the report but cast doubt on it by saying there were "thousands" of so-called advisers to the President who purported to know his frame of mind but spoke only anonymously.
Mr. Lockhart said the Administration was "a little bit smarter" than to campaign on a personal vendetta against the House members who prosecuted the case.
"I can't think of a worse, more dumb strategy than going after people based on whether they were a House manager or not," he said. "You look at the House managers, and the vast majority are in safe seats or unopposed seats."
The article said that Mr. Clinton was particularly angry at the managers but noted their safe seats.
Mr. Lockhart continued to advance the White House view of the unfairness of the House proceeding, which ended Dec. 19 in support of two articles of impeachment. "It seemed at times more based on a partisan agenda than a search for what happened here and a search for the truth," he said.
Aggrieved Republicans, who have sunk in the polls as Mr. Clinton has stayed high, were quick to leap at the notion that Mr. Clinton appeared far from the "gloat-free zone" that Mr. Lockhart had previously asserted the President would inhabit.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said, "It is deeply troubling that the President views closure of this constitutional process as an opportunity for revenge."
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said: "The President has to have contrition. He can't have a get-even attitude. I don't know if he does, but he shouldn't. Any effort to get even just keeps the poison in the body politic, and it will spread."
Even the Senate chaplain was moved to comment. "This is a time neither for gloating over victory nor grimness over losing, but rather a period for grief for all that has brought us to this day," Dr. Lloyd H. Ogilvie, the chaplain, lamented in his prayer as the Senate convened.
Thomas Mann, an expert on Congress at the Brookings Institution, said Republicans had good reason to feel exasperated and angry. They lost House seats in the last election and lost a Speaker and a Speaker-designate while Mr. Clinton has managed to survive and thrive, in part because of a booming economy, in part by cleverly co-opting Republican issues.
"Look at his ability to really destroy their wedge issues," Mr. Mann said. "Now it's the Democratic Party that's good on welfare and crime and fiscal responsibility and even taxes. It's an amazing achievement for a man who has been personally under siege throughout his Presidency and who has widely acknowledged flaws."
As for the Republicans, he said, "they are not only scarred with the tar of impeachment, but they look and they find they don't have any agenda. It's inevitable they will look for openings, for signs of hubris, of revenge, of anything that will give them an ability to change the subject and begin to regain some of their lost ground."
In an overt effort to do so, many in the House took the high road in discussing the President's mood, saying they were sticking to their knitting. "We've got our work to do," said Representative Kay Granger, Republican of Texas. John Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker Dennis Hastert, said, "People want us to get to work on their business, not on political business."
Others, like Representative Jack Kingston, Republican of Georgia, said the party had to prepare for the full power of another Clinton campaign. "It's payback time, and payback time is hell," Mr. Kingston said. He said the President was a "savvy, hardball politician, and you've got to fear his ability and respect it."
Mr. Nicholson, the party chairman, vowed vengeance on the avenger. He said his party would match the Presidential effort in every district in the country, and he said the Republicans whom Mr. Clinton had designated as targets should be proud of their votes on impeachment.
"Far from being ground under the heels of Bill Clinton's tawdry effort to celebrate his impeachment trial," Mr. Nicholson said, "these men and women will be rewarded by the people they represent and remembered as giants."
A few Democrats seemed chagrined by the President's desire to unseat his accusers. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Mr. Clinton should be part of the necessary healing after Friday's vote.
"It's very important that the President play a critical role in conveying to people a measure of understanding what he has put the country through," Mr. Kerry said.
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said he was "taken aback" by today's Times article. "It was so personal," he said of reports that Mr. Clinton plans a crusade against his accusers. "But I think it's probably overstated. It's human nature, I think, for him to want one of his legacies to be to help Democrats regain the House and Senate. That would be his strong motive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton with the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, in Washington yesterday. Advisers to Mr. Clinton said he was angry with reports that he seeks political retribution against Republicans. Jim Nicholson, national chairman of the Republican Party, spoke yesterday about the President's reported vow to unseat pro-impeachment Republicans. "Unlike you," he said of Mr. Clinton, "I've seen real combat." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (78%); UTAH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ARMIES (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); ORRIN HATCH (73%); CHRIS CANNON (73%); GERHARD SCHRODER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



269 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Parents of Shooting Victim Question Pace of Inquiry

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
The parents of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed West African immigrant shot to death by police officers in the vestibule of his Bronx apartment building last week, gave public thanks yesterday for the sympathy they have received but expressed ambivalence about the city's handling of the investigation into their son's death.
In her first interview since arriving from Guinea after the killing, Kadiadou Diallo, Mr. Diallo's mother, said she was upset by the pace of the investigation into the killing. 
 "What I condemn is these police officers are still on duty," she said, referring to the four officers who fired 41 shots into her son.
Her statements, in an interview at the office of the Rev. Al Sharpton and later at a news conference, capped conciliatory gestures from city officials and expressions of unalloyed anger from black and African leaders who complained that the death of the 22-year-old street vendor is evidence of systemic problems in the police force.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani again moved to fend off criticism that his response to the shooting has been insensitive. He reached out both to the Diallo family and to a group of African immigrants. But the Diallos and their entourage could not agree whether to even meet the Mayor to accept his condolences and some people who attended the meeting with the immigrants' group, the United African Congress, came away with a tepid response to Mr. Giuliani's overtures.
The fallout also extended to Police Commissioner Howard Safir, who sat through an hourlong tongue-lashing from City Council members over police training.
By day's end, the focus was on Mrs. Diallo, who was soft-spoken and composed despite days at the center of intense news media attention. She said that despite her frustration, she believed the investigation into her son's death would be fair. "It is the land of justice, America," she said.
But she and her former husband, Saikou, who arrived in New York City from his home in Vietnam on Wednesday night, appeared more hesitant about the motivations of Mr. Giuliani, who said yesterday that he wanted to offer his condolences to the family in private.
"If he has something to say, he can say it," Mrs. Diallo said with a shrug during the interview in the office of Mr. Sharpton, has been acting as the family's spokesman.
Mr. Giuliani, who has been trying to balance a desire to express compassion for the family and to defend his police force from allegations of racism, said he did not want any encounter with the Diallos to become "a media circus." He added, "I will do what is appropriate and what the family feels is appropriate."
A face-to-face meeting between the Mayor and the Diallos had been scheduled for last night, but it was called off at the last minute because Mrs. Diallo was exhausted, the Mayor's office and representatives of the Diallos said.
Mr. Sharpton, who has organized two large protest rallies against police brutality in the wake of the Diallo shooting, earlier said the only Mayor that the family would meet was former Mayor David N. Dinkins. They did, when Mr. Dinkins showed up for the news conference at Mr. Sharpton's National Action Network in Harlem to offer his sympathy.
It was not clear whether the Diallos and the Mayor would meet privately. In the lobby of the Diallos's hotel last night, Mr. Sharpton smiled and shrugged when asked whether the meeting between the Mayor and the family would take place.
Mr. Giuliani is scheduled to attend a memorial service for Mr. Diallo today after the Muslim noon prayers, at the Islamic Cultural Center of New York City. Mr. Sharpton said the family planned to return to Guinea with their son's body on Sunday or Monday, and he said he is considering the family's request to accompany them.
As Mr. Diallo's parents crisscrossed the city in a melancholy tour of the places their son worked, prayed and lived, City Hall continued to weather the sometimes harsh reaction to the police killing.
Mr. Safir returned from a five-day trip to Los Angeles to a withering barrage of criticism from City Council members, who said they told him the Diallo killing was evidence of persistent problems in the police force.
The Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said he and the Council's black and Hispanic caucus complained to Mr. Safir that the department has not prepared its officers to deal with immigrants and minority groups. There was general agreement, he said, "that there is something wrong that needs to be fixed."
Similar complaints about the Police Department's sensitivity to the diverse cultures, languages and needs of the city's immigrant groups were made by African leaders at a meeting with Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Safir.
Sadique Wai, president of the United African Congress, based in Brooklyn, said his group wanted the city to hire more African-Americans and to pay more attention to their social, political and economic needs.
"The next step is integrating us into this society and making crystal-clear that we are going to be part of this society and we are going to be respected," said Mr. Wai, an immigrant from Sierre Leone.
Ben Otunu, associate publisher of Black Star News, who also attended the meeting, said the Mayor and Mr. Safir expressed compassion for the Diallo family but stopped short of saying the police officers were wrong to shoot the unarmed vendor.
"I guess that's perhaps where people feel maybe he is not entirely sincere," Mr. Otunu said. He added that "the Mayor's demeanor is such that he does not come across as a very friendly person."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The City Council yesterday told Police Commissioner Howard Safir, left, and the Mayor that the police must learn how to deal with immigrants. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); Benjamin Muhammad of the Nation of Islam, center, at a news conference yesterday to protest a fatal shooting by the police. At right was former Mayor David N. Dinkins. From left, the Rev. Al Sharpton; Kadiadou Diallo, the victim's mother; Dr. Delores Blakely, and Saikou Diallo, the father. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GUINEA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); AFRICA (79%); VIET NAM (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DIALLOS'S HOTEL (79%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (59%); NATION OF ISLAM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GUINEA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); AFRICA (79%); VIET NAM (52%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SHOOTINGS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); MAYORS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (75%); AL SHARPTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



270 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Feeling the Push Of Managed Care;
In Syracuse, Doctors and Patients Adjust As H.M.O.'s Make a Late Appearance

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: SYRACUSE

 BODY:
It was the kind of experience Dr. William Lindsey had dreaded.
The doctor, a general surgeon, sat on one side of a meeting table protesting a decision by United Healthcare to pay him almost $100 less for each colonoscopy he performs under that managed care plan. The reduction, Dr. Lindsey said, would cost him $30,000 this year. 
 On the other side of the table, Dr. Lindsey recalled, sat the representative for the health maintenance organization, nodding, assuring Dr. Lindsey that his services were valued, but refusing to pay him a penny more for the procedure.
Like a poker player holding a pair of threes, Dr. Lindsey, 45, knew he was beaten. The boom in health maintenance organizations that swept most other American cities more than a decade ago has finally come to Syracuse. United Healthcare and other plans like it are enrolling more of Dr. Lindsey's patients, and he cannot just walk away.
"There is no real way to argue with them," Dr. Lindsey said recently, still seething two weeks after the meeting. "Basically, they tell us to take it or leave it. Alone, I don't have any say."
Until recently, Syracuse doctors did not have to pay managed care much mind. While much of New York had belatedly joined the H.M.O. surge, Syracuse had largely avoided it because the local economy, made up mostly of midsize companies, was not particularly appealing to managed-care companies. Those companies often seek to have a quick and substantial impact on a new market by signing up a few large employers.
But as the pressure increases on managed-care companies to find new markets, the status quo in Syracuse has begun to change: in the last three years, these companies have enrolled increasing numbers of people here.
For patients, this trend has meant adjusting to a new way of getting care and paying for it. For doctors, feeling control of their practices slipping from their grasp, it has meant using the experience of colleagues in other cities as a guide to challenging managed-care companies. Their solution has been to organize in unionlike associations.
"We don't need a middleman to manage health care," said Dr. Paul Kardjian, a urologist in Oneida, a suburb east of Syracuse. "We are smart enough to do it ourselves."
Syracuse, with a population of 164,000, is a quiet place dominated by Syracuse University and surrounded by dairy farms. It is a city where most people are proud to call themselves conservative, even old-fashioned, and where concepts like managed care seem newfangled and are viewed with suspicion.
Born and raised in Syracuse, Bill Nesfeder, a union representative at the New Venture Gear plant, expressed a typical view. He has been employed at the plant, which produces auto parts, for 35 years, he said, and he has been enrolled in Blue Cross and Blue Shield for about as long.
The health plan has served him well, he said. He can go to any doctor he wants, whenever he wants, and if he is sick, insurance pays the full bill. Insurance does not cover routine visits, however, including annual checkups.
Sometimes, he said, he has problems getting Blue Cross to cover certain medical expenses. But the freedom of choice, he said, is worth the trouble.
"It feels like we are moving into socialized medicine," said Mr. Nesfeder, 62, the benefits representative for the United Automobile Workers, Local 624. "A lot of people are joining the H.M.O.'s because they don't have to pay nothing. Well I'm not looking for a free ride in life."
He pointed to a stack of blue folders about as tall as his coffee mug. They are complaints, he said, from employees about the kind of care they get, and all the rules they have to follow. Views like that helped keep managed-care enrollment low in Syracuse for years.
In addition, the city has not had a glut of hospitals or doctors, so there was little need for health care providers to court managed-care companies in the hopes of securing more customers.
Three years ago, only 14 percent of Syracuse residents with health insurance were covered by health maintenance organizations. That number has grown to 19 percent, according to a report by the Center for Studying Health System Change, a research group. The figure is still low compared with the national average of 32 percent, but heading upward.
The shift toward managed care is clear at New Venture Gear. Over the last five years, benefits administrators said, many employees have switched from Blue Cross to Prepaid Health Plan, the H.M.O that the company uses. Five years ago, company officials said, less than 1,000 of the 3,000 hourly employees were enrolled in Prepaid. Today, more than 2,000 are in the plan, with most saying they have switched because the costs are lower and more services are covered.
Ed Wierzbicki, who has worked at New Venture Gear for 22 years, said he switched to Prepaid four years ago, after the birth of his first daughter, reasoning that a newborn would need numerous trips to the doctor.
Two years later, it was Mr. Wierzbicki, 47, who needed medical attention. He began having trouble breathing through his nose and developed intense headaches. His doctor recommended surgery to open his nasal passages. But Prepaid, Mr. Wierzbicki said, would not pay for the surgery, calling it an uncovered cosmetic procedure, nor would it allow a second opinion from a specialist.
Mr. Wierzbicki said he took aspirin by the handfuls as he and his wife, Karen, fought the managed-care company's decision. A year and a half later, after State Health Department officials began investigating, Mr. Wierzbicki said, Prepaid allowed him to get a second opinion.
"What they did was just awful," Mrs. Wierzbicki said. "They made us jump through all kind of hoops. Meanwhile, my husband was suffering terribly. They cared more about money than about his pain."
The new doctor determined that the breathing problems were caused by heavy goggles Mr. Wierzbicki wears for work, and ordered him to get a lighter pair. The change has made all the difference in his condition, Mr. Wierzbicki said.
Yet, despite his conflict with the H.M.O., Mr. Wierzbicki said that he has decided to remain in Prepaid because it costs so much less than Blue Cross.
Dr. Dennis Nave fumed when recalling the times he has prescribed certain medications to patients, only to have a health maintenance organization refuse to cover them and offer what he considers inappropriate alternatives.
"The insurance companies have gotten between the patients and the doctors," he said. "It has created a monster. It's time to try things a new way."
In the expanding movement by physicians to regain control of their practices, doctors in Syracuse have decided that the way to fight back is by joining together. Some 90 percent of doctors in the city have formed independent practitioners' associations. Known as I.P.A.'s, these groups are often likened to unions that allow physicians to act as a collective unit to negotiate contracts with health insurance companies, giving them more leverage at the bargaining table.
But, unlike doctors' unions, these associations do not limit doctors to membership in only one association, and doctors who disagree with the terms of a contract signed by their association can disregard the agreement and make their own deals.
There are four major independent practitioners' associations in Syracuse, with sizes ranging from 350 to 850 members. Administrators of national umbrella groups for such associations estimate that there are more than 3,000 I.P.A.'s across the country. A report by the Center for Studying Health System Change noted that the associations in Syracuse had grown faster than those in most other parts of the country.
"What we are looking for is to give physicians back the ability to make sure that they are giving their patients the kind of care they need," said Dr. Robert Corwin, a pediatrician and medical director at Healthbest, an association with 850 doctors. "In our negotiations with H.M.O.'s, we remind them that they are an insurance company, and that they are not responsible for providing health care. Those decisions must be left to us."
Some of the insurers, he said, "walk away." Others stay and negotiate, and in some cases, the doctors have won significant concessions.
After almost eight months of negotiations last year, Healthbest won a contract with the giant managed-care company Kaiser Permanente that would have restored to doctors the power to make referrals for their patients without getting the company's approval.
A spokesman for Kaiser Permanente's northeast division, Tim Riley, said that for the doctors at Healthbest, the contract was a "feather in their cap." After the Syracuse negotiations, he said, Kaiser Permanente decided to give all its Northeast physicians the same referral powers.
Lured by the ease of signing one contact that covers a large group of doctors rather than establishing their own community networks one doctor at a time, officials at Kaiser and other H.M.O.'s in the region said that they welcomed independent practitioners' associations.
Mr. Riley said his company had decided to put off its entry into the Syracuse market for now because a drop in earnings has forced it to focus on its current markets. But he said the company was excited, not offended, by the prospect of working with doctors in Syracuse. If Kaiser eventually decides to enter the Syracuse market, the contract with Healthbest will still apply.
Last month, Healthbest took its next step toward physician independence by beginning to market its own health plan directly to employers that have at least 200 employees.
"Physicians became a nonplayer at the table," said Dr. John Wight, a primary care physician affiliated with Healthbest. "Employers and insurance companies worked out their deals without doctors. These I.P.A.'s are the best chance we have for getting our place back at the table."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Paul Kardjian, a urologist in the Syracuse suburb of Oneida, says doctors don't need a middleman. They have formed unionlike groups to challenge managed-care companies. (Phil Matt for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Bill Nesfeder, a plant worker, backs more traditional health care. (Michael Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENDOSCOPY (77%); UROLOGY (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM LINDSEY (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



271 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: 9 Gun Makers Called Liable For Shootings

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
For the first time, a jury has found that gun manufacturers are liable for shootings with illegally obtained handguns because their marketing practices fostered illegal gun trafficking.
In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, which legal experts called a test case for a wave of suits that have recently been filed against the gun industry, the jury found yesterday that 15 of 25 firearms makers named in the suit had been negligent. The suit was brought on behalf of victims in seven shootings. Of the 15 manufacturers found negligent, 9 were liable in at least one of three of the shootings -- two of them fatal -- in the New York City region in recent years. 
 The jury found that those nine manufacturers were collectively liable for the shootings -- even though it was not proved what brand of gun had been used in any of the cases -- because they oversupplied states with weak gun laws, which led to illegal sales in those with strict regulations, like New York.
The jurors found liability where it had determined that the companies' practices had been a "proximate cause," or a substantial factor, in the shootings.
The jury sent notes to the judge five times during its six days of deliberations, saying they were deadlocked. Judge Jack B. Weinstein responded to one note by telling the jurors that they were not to consider "the implications of your decision on others outside the courtroom."
"You must decide the case based on the evidence heard here and the law as I gave it to you," he said.
In what appeared to be a compromise verdict, the jury awarded no damages to relatives of the two homicide victims in the three shootings where it found liability. It found only that the surviving victim was entitled to $3.95 million in damages -- though, given the intricacies of the case, he would collect only about $500,000 under the verdict.
The jury also found that in four other homicide cases that were part of the lawsuit, none of the 15 companies found to be negligent overall were also shown to have had a proximate cause in the killings and therefore none of those 15 were held liable in those slayings. It was not clear last night exactly what factors the jury used to determine proximate cause.
The verdict was hailed as a victory by both sides.
Lawyers for the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs themselves, said it was a major victory for the growing effort across the country to hold the gun industry liable for bloodshed with illegally obtained firearms, much as lawsuits have sought to hold the tobacco industry liable for deaths and illnesses caused by smoking.
"We held 15 of the 25 liable for negligence," the chief lawyer for the plaintiffs, Elisa Barnes, said after the verdict, which took a half hour to read and required a 42-page form to deal with all the issues in the suit.
But lawyers for the gun manufacturers held that the overall verdict was a victory for the companies because there was no finding of damages for six of the seven shootings that were involved in the suit.
As for the finding that the plaintiffs said was a major part of their victory -- that 15 of the 25 companies involved in the verdict had marketed and distributed their products negligently -- one of the industry lawyers, James P. Dorr, said that that finding involved "issues that are more appropriately submitted to legislatures."
Another lawyer for the companies, John Renzulli, insisted that "there's no rhyme or reason to this jury's verdict -- it makes no sense." Other lawyers on the industry side held that the verdict was the result of compromises by a jury that had clearly agonized over the case during a week of deliberations that, their own notes to the judge said, had been stormy at times and had led to several threatened deadlocks.
Lawyers for the gun companies said they would ask Judge Weinstein to throw out the verdict on the ground that it was the result of inappropriate compromises within the jury. Lawyers for the plaintiffs said they would ask the judge to assess damages in the two homicide cases where the jury had found that negligent marketing and distribution by some of the companies had been a proximate cause of the killings but had refused to assess damages.
There were nine companies that were found to have negligent practices and were also found liable in one or more of three shootings in the case: American Arms, Arcadia Machine & Tool, Beretta U.S.A., Bryco Arms, Colt's Manufacturing, Glock, Phoenix Arms, Sigarms and Taurus International Manufacturing.
Six other companies were found negligent but not liable for any of the shootings: Calico Light Weapons Systems, Freedom Arms, International Armament (doing business as Interarms Industries), Jennings Firearms, K.B.I. Inc. and Sundance Industries.
The plaintiffs were relatives of six people killed with illegally obtained handguns in New York City and Yonkers and a Queens teen-ager who survived a seventh shooting with a bullet still lodged in his brain. It was the teen-ager, Steven Fox, who was awarded damages.
The judge had ruled at the start of the monthlong trial, without giving a reason, that the jurors' identities would be kept from the parties in the case and the public. The move had not been requested by either side.
Most of the jurors left the court in cars with Federal marshals, but one of the jurors who walked out the front door, a man from Long Island, said the deliberations had been "very difficult."
"Some didn't like guns and some did," he said of the jury. "That's why it took so long."
The outcome of the trial is expected to be assessed not only by the firearms industry and gun control advocates but also by lawyers for Chicago and other cities that have recently filed, or plan to file, suits making similar arguments against the gun industry, much as states have sued cigarette makers.
Still other suits, filed by cities like New Orleans and Miami, are based on a different argument: that the gun makers have failed to include sufficient safety devices in their products. All the cities' suits are intended to recoup law enforcement and hospital costs stemming from gun violence.
In only one of the shootings was a gun recovered. But Ms. Barnes, the plaintiffs' chief lawyer, told the jury that this "simply doesn't matter." She and her trial colleagues -- Denise Dunleavy, Michael S. Feldberg and Marc E. Elovitz -- asserted that the gun makers made no attempts to keep their products from falling into criminal hands, like requiring wholesalers not to supply dealers suspected of selling the weapons to questionable buyers. "They don't care," Mr. Feldberg declared of the manufacturers.
And the plaintiffs accused the gun makers of oversupplying dealers in states with weak gun control laws or weakly enforced laws, particularly in the South. Many of the excess guns, they said, end up in the hands of illicit traffickers who resell them to criminals and youths in states with strong gun laws.
An expert for the plaintiffs, Lucy Allen of National Economic Research Associates, based in New York, testified that 90 percent of the handguns in crimes in New York State had recently come from other states, and nearly half from five states: Florida, Georgia, Virginia, North Carolina and Ohio.
A dozen lawyers for the gun makers denied that their clients oversupplied states that had lax laws on the sale of guns. They said there was stronger legitimate demand in the South for guns.
One industry lawyer, Mr. Dorr, told the jury that the gun makers could not control the "outlaws" who illegally trafficked in guns or who misused them in crimes, once licensed dealers legally made the first sales of the weapons. "There has been no evidence that negligence by any manufacturer was the proximate cause of these shootings," Mr. Dorr said, calling the plaintiffs' case "smoke and generalities."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dianne Zoretsky, left, whose husband was killed with an illegal gun, spoke to reporters in the Federal courthouse yesterday after the jury's verdict as Freddie Hamilton, far right, who lost a son, looked on. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FIREARMS (94%); JURY TRIALS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); NEGLIGENCE (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (90%); DAMAGES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); SMOKING (77%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (72%); HOMICIDE (68%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (62%); 

PERSON: JACK B WEINSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



272 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 12, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Government Moves to Conserve Remote Areas of National Forest

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today suspended the construction of logging roads in most of the undeveloped back country of the national forests, decisively shifting forest policy toward conservation after a year of heated public debate.
The move sets the stage for a broader review of long-term forest policy. The Administration will study not only the remote areas affected by the suspension, but also other undeveloped areas excluded from the moratorium and the larger expanses crisscrossed by an estimated 400,000 miles of roads. 
 "Some frontiers are not to be conquered," Dan Glickman, the Secretary of Agriculture, said, expressing bluntly that the Administration no longer wanted to make logging and other development the main purpose of the national forests.
Road building will be suspended for 18 months, temporarily protecting about 33 million acres of publicly owned land. Most of the undeveloped areas are in the West, but others are scattered throughout the country.
In effect, the moratorium began in January 1998, when the suspension was proposed. The agency has since collected some 50,000 comments from the public and felt the ire of powerful logging interests and their allies in Congress, but built few if any roads in the undeveloped areas.
Roads do more than open up areas to logging. The construction causes erosion that damages water quality and breaks up habitats, which endangers wide-ranging species. It also allows for the introduction of disease and pests into pristine areas.
The timber industry and lawmakers from the West who favor logging and other development on public lands called the plan irresponsible. But environmental advocates said it was a first step toward permanently protecting all forests where there has been no logging, mining or grazing.
"I think their long-term vision is to accede to the extremists, which is, basically, to get everyone out of the forest," said W. Henson Moore, the head of the American Forest Products Association, a trade group that represents timber and paper companies.
Mr. Moore said building roads in the national forests provides more than logging jobs. Other benefits include offering access to the land for recreation and other uses, including firefighting.
Senator Larry E. Craig, a Republican who represents Idaho, which has huge undeveloped forests, said the proposal "has been widely unpopular and severely disrupted Idaho's rural communities."
Conservation groups said they would work to seek permanent protection for all areas without roads, and to shape the agency's policies in areas that already have roads.
"Protecting existing roadless areas isn't enough," said David Bayles, conservation director of the Pacific Rivers Council, an environmental group in Eugene, Ore. "Restoration is needed as well. With a real change in direction, the Forest Service could begin to reverse some of the damage from the past and start to heal the places that need it most, the lightly roaded but still relatively healthy watersheds that support sensitive species such as grizzly bears and native cutthroat trout."
The Administration made few significant changes to its moratorium proposal of a year ago. Several large forests where new management plans were already in place or proposed were exempted; among them are the Tongass National Forest in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest forests where a dispute over logging in the habitat of the imperiled spotted owl was settled in 1994.
In all, the national forests comprise about 192 million acres, of which about 35 million acres without roads are already protected by wilderness status. About 33 million acres of additional undeveloped land, mostly in tracts of 5,000 acres or more, will be protected by the moratorium. About 8 million acres of that land is suitable for logging.
More than 20 million acres without roads in several national forests were excluded from the moratorium, but even some of that land will not be open for road building because of other restrictions.
Conservation groups complained that some relatively small, undeveloped areas were not protected by the moratorium.
"Some areas in the Sierra Nevada deserving protection will not be spared from logging and road building," said Brian Vincent, an organizer in California for American Forests, a conservation group.
For example, Mr. Vincent said, Devils Canyon in the Tahoe National Forest, which contains the largest stand of old-growth timber in Nevada County, is not protected because it does not meet the 5,000-acre threshold set by the Administration's policy.
Forest Service officials said that the moratorium would defer the construction of 200 or 300 miles of roads and would probably reduce the amount of timber cut on national forests during the next 18 months by about 200 million board feet. Each year, the agency sells about 4 billion board feet of wood from national forests.
Agency officials said that a few hundred jobs would be lost and estimated the overall economic harm at $22 million to $33 million. Much of the demand for wood would be filled instead by private landowners, the officials said.
No matter how the Administration eventually decides to manage areas that are still free of roads, it must also struggle with managing those parts of the forest that are already full of roads.
Most of the roads were originally built for logging trucks but now carry an estimated 1.7 million vehicles a day. Most of that is rural traffic, but it includes visitors to the national forests. Fewer than half the roads meet safety and environmental standards, and the Forest Service said it had a maintenance backlog of $8.5 billion.
The Administration is seeking $123 million for road maintenance in the forests next year, an increase of about 25 percent, but that amount is nowhere near what is needed to make repairs, leaving the agency to decide which roads should be improved and which ones should be closed.
The Administration's moratorium takes the form of a regulation and thus is subject to proposal, comment and rule-making, but does not require Congressional approval.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the suspension of road building in national forests misstated the name of the conservation group for which Brian Vincent is a California organizer. It is American Lands, not American Forests.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CRAIG A WEST (52%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); EROSION (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PAPER MFG (62%); 

PERSON: LARRY CRAIG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999



273 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Hunk, He-Man, Mensch, Milquetoast: The Masks of Masculinity

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The consummate tough-guy persona of Humphrey Bogart. The vulnerability of James Stewart. The bad-boy sexuality of Marlon Brando. The romanticism of Cary Grant. It would not be hard for a moviegoer to end up wondering whether masculinity is a mode of performance.
This, as it turns out, is the conviction of a growing number of scholars in the field of so-called masculinity studies, a somewhat surprising offshoot of feminism in which mostly male academics have taken feminist theory and applied it to the study of masculinity and men. 
 Masculinity studies are not part of any antifeminist backlash. Practitioners do not talk about male bonding or affirming traditional male values. Instead, they have been inspired by a central principle of feminist theory, that gender is not inborn but created, that gender is performance.
Over the past few years, scholars in fields like sociology, history and film studies have tried to dissect how manhood has been "constructed," as they put it, examining everything from its shifting representation in movies to what men's letters and diaries reveal about their roles over time.
Their conclusion is that masculinity is not monolithic. The masculine ideal varies widely among groups and often varies by age, region and race, they say. It changes as circumstances change over time, often in response to historical and cultural change.
"What male scholars started doing was they said, 'What if there is more than one masculinity?' " said Dennis Bingham, an associate professor of English at Indiana University-Purdue University and the author of a book on masculinity in the movies of James Stewart, Jack Nicholson and Clint Eastwood. " 'What if masculinity is a construction, something we unconsciously work very hard on making ourselves into that we've all conned ourselves into believing is natural?' "
In "American Manhood: Transformations in Masculinity From the Revolution to the Modern Era" (Basic Books, 1993), E. Anthony Rotundo, a historian who teaches at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., divides manhood over the past 250 years into three distinct phases.
In Colonial New England, the dominant form was "communal manhood," he writes. A man's identity was defined by his usefulness to his community. With the rise of a market economy and the growth of the middle class, that form was eclipsed in the early 19th century.
"Self-made manhood" supplanted it, Mr. Rotundo says. A man's identity and social status came from his achievements more than any accident of birth. Ambition, rivalry and aggression were given freer rein, he writes; manhood depended on channeling, rather than moderating, his passions.
By the late 19th century, there was another shift: combativeness had become a positive male virtue, the book argues. Competitiveness was exalted, toughness admired, tenderness scorned. Male sexual desire, seen earlier as worrisome, became an important part of the new "passionate manhood."
Images of masculinity appear to shift even more on screen than in real life. Steven Cohan, an English professor at Syracuse University, devotes his book "Masked Men: Masculinity and the Movies in the 50's" (Indiana University Press, 1997) to tracking the contradictory images of manhood in postwar films.
Masculinity was in flux, Mr. Cohan writes. The war had shaken up gender relations at work and at home, and anxiety about the mental stability of returning veterans had "exaggerated the danger their ungovernable masculinity posed to the social order."
The politics of the cold war, too, projected contradictory messages for manhood, Mr. Cohan writes. A "hard" masculinity was required for defending the nation's borders, but a "soft" masculinity was insisted upon as "the foundation of an orderly, responsible home life."
That complex mix of historical and cultural pressures influenced what Mr. Cohan calls "the masculine masquerade" he finds in movies of the 1950's, which he examines in the on- and off-screen images of actors like Grant, Bogart, Brando and William Holden.
"Though men have supposedly been invisible, looking at how their bodies appear in film can reveal the same kind of shifts that looking at the female body in film does," Mr. Cohan said recently, giving as an example the contrast between the exoticism of Rudolph Valentino and the athleticism of Douglas Fairbanks.
The roots of masculinity studies as a field can be traced to the mid-1970's, when a group of men, mostly social psychologists, began using feminism to examine their own lives. Out of that effort came the first two anthologies of scholarly articles on masculinity and a national conference on the subject.
By the late 1980's, a couple of professors in sociology and history departments were teaching courses on manhood and masculinity, relying on stacks of photocopies for the reading. Since that time, there has been a steady stream of books and articles on the subject, including "Manhood in America: A Cultural History" (The Free Press, 1995) by Michael Kimmel, a professor of sociology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook who teaches a course on masculinity and edits a quarterly journal for the field.
In an article titled "The 'Flabby American,' the Body and the Cold War," Robert L. Griswold, a professor of history at the University of Oklahoma who has also written a history of fatherhood, recently explored national concerns about the male body as being a repository of social ills during the cold war period.
Mr. Griswold wrote that promoters of physical fitness under the Eisenhower and Kennedy Administrations hoped "to revitalize manhood so that it could better meet the Communist threat to national survival." He added, "Cold wars could not be fought with soft bodies."
In "Running Scared: Masculinity and the Representation of the Male Body," (Temple University Press, 1993), Peter Lehman, a professor of media arts at the University of Arizona, suggested that the taboo against showing the penis in film and other media has reinforced patriarchal notions about its power.
Mr. Lehman contends that the penis appears commonly only in very limited contexts: It is visible in pornography, where it is always intended to be impressive; and it features regularly in humor, usually in jokes implying that any dimensions short of awesomely large are laughable or pathetic.
Numerous other aspects of masculinity are being studied, including fatherhood and masculinity in the 19-century American North, the rise of the bachelor subculture, the domestic life of colonial men and representations of masculinity in Italian film.
Jacqueline Reich, a scholar of Italian cinema and an assistant professor at SUNY Stony Brook who is writing a book on Italian movie masculinity, has found that the dominant image is not that of the Latin lover, as might be imagined, but that of an Italian version of the schlemiel.
"You think of the Italian as being the consummate ideal of masculinity," she said in an interview. "But from Fellini to Antonioni, you see men who are constantly struggling to achieve their goals and are at odds with a rapidly changing social, political, cultural environment."
Several feminist historians said they approved of much of the new work. "Since about the mid-1980's, it has been very clear that one can't look at women's history without looking at the history of men as men," said Nancy F. Cott, a professor of history and American studies at Yale. "So I see the two things as really mutually necessary."
In the long run, many predict that men and masculinity will be integrated into the emerging field of gender studies. Several colleges have already headed in that direction, including Hobart and William Smith Colleges, which inaugurated a new center, the Fisher Center for the Study of Women and Men, last fall.
"I have not in the past seven years taught a specific course on masculinity because I work it into everything else," said Mr. Bingham, who wrote the book on Stewart, Mr. Nicholson and Mr. Eastwood. "When I teach the western, what is that if not all about masculinity? It works its way into virtually everything I do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marlon Brando in a 1950 publicity photograph to promote the movie "A Streetcar Named Desire." (From "Masked Men" by Steven Cohan; Indiana University Press, 1997)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (82%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (82%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: MEN; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MEN (90%); FILM (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HISTORY (76%); FILM SCHOOLS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); TRENDS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY CLINT EASTWOOD (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



274 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: American Airlines Urges Contempt Citation for Union

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
American Airlines urged a Federal judge in Dallas to hold its pilots' union in contempt yesterday as a continued sickout led to the cancellation of nearly half the airline's flights and to spiraling chaos on one of the year's busiest weekends for travel.
Judge Joe Kendall of the Federal District Court of North Texas announced he would put off until this morning his ruling on whether to cite the union for contempt although he strongly warned its leaders to press the 2,443 pilots who called in sick yesterday to return to work. 
 There were widespread expectations that Judge Kendall would rule against the union and its leaders, judging from the stern, often sarcastic tone he took in a day when he quizzed them about their salaries, the size of the union's assets and whether they had wholeheartedly urged pilots to end their sickout.
At the end of a day of hearings, Judge Kendall told the leaders of the Allied Pilots Association, "If you all want to spend a productive evening, spend it on the telephone and try to get these people to do what everyone in the world knows is the right thing to do."
The judge said he did not issue a ruling yesterday because he "did not want to shoot from the hip."
On Wednesday, Judge Kendall ordered the leaders of the pilots' union to get the airline's 9,200 pilots to end the sickout, but yesterday he showed clear irritation that so many pilots had defied his order.
Lawyers for American, the nation's second-largest airline, described a scene of growing chaos to Judge Kendall, telling him that angry passengers nearly rioted in Miami and that 450,000 passengers had been affected since the sickout began last Saturday.
"The union leaders have thumbed their noses at management and the public," Dee Kelly, an airline lawyer, told the judge's crowded courtroom. "The airline has suffered enough, and it is time that the pilots suffer along with us."
American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, announced that it had canceled 1,102 of its 2,250 scheduled flights and that the number of pilots calling in sick had risen slightly for the second consecutive day, despite Judge Kendall's order.
The continued sickout insured snarls for tens of thousands of American passengers not just yesterday but for today and tomorrow as well.
Timothy Ahern, American's vice president for operations and planning, said if all the pilots had returned to work yesterday, Monday was the the soonest the airline could have been back to normal.
Eager to avoid a contempt citation, Rich LaVoy, president of the union, told Judge Kendall that he had done his best to persuade American's pilots to return to work.
"I've done everything except go to their house and knock on their doors," Mr. LaVoy said, adding that he would do more to get the message out, even "if I have to drive around with a loudspeaker on top of my car."
But when Judge Kendall learned that 12 of the union's 18 board members had called in sick yesterday, he scoffed at the union's assertions that it was doing its utmost to persuade the pilots to return.
The pilots have staged their job action to protest the speed with which American plans to integrate Reno Air, a small Western carrier it purchased in December, into the larger airline's network. The pilots fear that American will rely increasingly on Reno's lower-paid pilots, thus undercutting the American pilots. But the airline insists it has no such intention, saying it plans to bring the Reno pilots up to the American pay scale within 18 months.
At yesterday's hearing, Judge Kendall showed little sympathy for the pilots, who earn about $140,000 a year on average. "When you call in sick and get paid for it and you're really not, is that not stealing?" he asked, saying it was dishonorable for so many pilots, many of them veterans of the armed services, to act in such a way.
Mr. Lavoy denied the pilots were stealing. He said that the union's net assets were between $36 million and $38 million.
After the hearing ended, Mr. LaVoy said: "We are trying our best to comply with Judge Kendall's order. We are urging our pilots to get back in the cockpit."
American officials told the judge that the airline had lost about $40 million as a result of the standoff.
The White House commented for the first time yesterday about the dispute, saying that it was closely monitoring the situation. In a statement, President Clinton said: "I am concerned about the impact this labor dispute is having on our nation and the traveling public. With the potential for enormous disruption over the upcoming Presidents' Day holiday weekend, I urge both parties to think of the impact on the traveling public, set aside their differences, and work together to resolve the issues between them."
As a result of the daylong hearing, which was attended by the union's leaders, the two sides did not hold negotiations scheduled for yesterday afternoon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rich LaVoy, right, president of the Allied Pilots Association. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (83%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAWYERS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); RIOTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); 

PERSON: JOE KENDALL (95%); RICH LAVOY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



275 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Business Inventories Steady in December

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Inventories of unsold goods at United States businesses held steady in December as drops in factory and chain-store stockpiles were offset by increases at auto dealers, building-material suppliers and wholesalers.
Business inventories were unchanged for the month at $1.088 trillion after rising an unrevised four-tenths of a percent in November, the Commerce Department said today. 
 Business sales increased 1 percent in December, the largest gain since a 1.1 percent advance in September 1997, to $793.55 billion. That followed an unrevised increase of six-tenths of a percent during November.
The inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of the time that goods sit at wholesalers, fell to 1.37 months, tying the low of July and September 1997.
In a separate report, the University of Michigan's preliminary index of consumer sentiment for February rose to 107.4 from 103.9 in January, people with access to the study said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS INVENTORIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RETAILERS (88%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



276 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Coke Expands Its Lead in U.S.

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BEDFORD HILLS, N.Y., Feb. 11

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company widened its United States market lead over Pepsico Inc. in 1998, a report said, as sales of Coke's Sprite rose three times the rate of sales growth in the overall soft drink industry.
Coca-Cola's share of the estimated $56.3 billion United States soft drink market increased by six-tenths of a percentage point, according to a survey by the industry publication Beverage Digest, which is based in Bedford Hills, and John C. Maxwell Jr., an analyst at Davenport & Company. Pepsico's share rose five-tenths of a percentage point. 
 Although Coca-Cola is experiencing slowing sales in many international markets because of economic downturns and currency devaluations, its domestic sales have been rising steadily. Coke has aggressively marketed its drinks in the wake of new products like Pepsi's diet cola, Pepsi One.
Over all, Coca-Cola had a 44.5 percent share of case sales in 1998, compared with Pepsico's 31.4 percent. Coke's 1997 share was 43.9 percent, a 13-point lead over Pepsi's 30.9 percent.
The last time Pepsi gained market share on Coca-Cola was in 1989, when its share of the domestic market rose five-tenths of a percentage point. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (97%); PEP (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (97%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO; PEPSICO INC COCA-COLA CO (97%); PEPSICO INC (94%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO; PEPSICO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; SALES SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (93%); SOFT DRINKS (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); DEVALUATION (54%); CURRENCIES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



277 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS -- Japan Lowers Key Rate, but (Surprise) Bond Yields Go Higher;
U.S. Treasuries Fall, Sending Stocks Down

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Bond prices dropped sharply yesterday, pushing interest rates to their highest levels since last August. The selling was touched off by growing fears that rising yields in Japan will attract investors away from the American market.
The surge in interest rates also helped push stock prices lower. Higher interest rates can lure investors away from stocks and cause those who stay there to worry more about the high price of equities. So with investors already worrying if the sharp run-up in stocks since last October can continue with the slower earnings growth of the last two quarters, yesterday's interest rate surge made the market's outlook worse. 
 "There was a major shock in the bond market and stocks don't usually ignore that," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "When you get to 20 percent overvalued, you usually get into trouble," he said of the stock market, adding that his overvaluation measure was now nearing 18 percent.
In the bond market, which closed early ahead of the Presidents' Day holiday Monday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumped to 5.42 percent, its highest since Aug. 26, from the 5.30 percent yield of the new 30-year bond auctioned Thursday.
But more important for investors than the absolute level of interest rates was that the yield on the 30-year bond and other Treasury securities broke through the top of a trading range that had lasted since Nov. 6, when the yield on the 30-year bond was 5.39 percent.
With more and more signs that the economy is not slowing down as forecast by many economists, "you can't rule out yields going higher," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, global chief economist at Salomon Smith Barney. And, he said, "the higher yields go, the more they highlight the vulnerability of the equity market."
On Wall street, stocks gave up most of the gains they had made on Thursday when the Nasdaq index leaped 96 points in its biggest one-day point gain ever. Technology stocks were the culprits again, as Dell Computer, down 12, to 89 7/8; Microsoft, off 5, to 157 3/4; Intel, down 6 3/4, to 126 1/2, and Cisco Systems, off 5 13/16 , to 99 1/16 , helped lead the broader market lower. Earnings concerns undermined Dell's price as an analyst from BancBoston Robertson Stephens said Dell's fourth-quarter sales would slow sharply. Dell is to report earnings next week.
Internet stocks also took a beating, led by Excite, Realnetworks and At Home. In the first six trading days of this year, Internet stocks, as measured by The Street.com's Net index, jumped 44.7 percent. Since then, the sector has lost 17.9 percent.
Stocks of smaller companies have also suffered recently, after a strong rally since last fall. The Russell index of 2,000 smaller-company stocks rose 40 percent from early October to the second week in January. But since then, the index has fallen 8 percent. And the Russell index is the only one of the four majors that has not surpassed its 1998 high.
Yesterday, the Nasdaq index fell 83.66 points, or 3.5 percent, to 2,321.89, and is off 2.2 percent this week.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which is light on technology stocks, fell 88.57 points, or 1 percent, to 9,274.89. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, which includes some of the big-name technology stocks, dropped 23.91, or 1.9 percent, to 1,230.13. The Russell index fell 7.72 points, or 1.9 percent, to 398.44. For the week, the Dow was off three-tenths of 1 percent, the S.& P. 500 seven-tenths of 1 percent and the Russell 3.5 percent.
The Dow and the S.& P. 500 have now been trapped in a trading range for a month, taking sharp swings up and down but going nowhere. The Russell has been falling since the beginning of February. The Nasdaq has been selling off for a few weeks, but is still up 5.9 percent for the year.
The major political news of the day, the acquittal of President Clinton, seemed to have no effect, analysts said, although the fall in bond prices accelerated after the two votes. Instead, it was disappointment that a move by the Bank of Japan to stimulate economic growth there did not go far enough and, therefore, would allow Japanese interest rates to move higher.
What the Bank of Japan announced was a cut in a key lending rate to 0.15 percent from 0.25 percent. But the central bank's announcement also showed that it would not buy any more Japanese Government bonds, a move that would both help to lower interest rates and raise the nation's money supply. Both steps, economists said, would stimulate Japanese growth much more than the rate cut.
For bond investors, however, the decision not to buy more bonds was a signal that Japanese interest rates could continue to climb and draw investors away from the American bond market. Since October, the yield on 10-year Japanese bonds has jumped to 2 percent from seven-tenths of 1 percent. While still lower than comparable American rates, the Japanese yields are drawing Japanese investors back home.
Mr. Schoenholtz and Mr. Wien said that other factors were also undermining the bond market. One is that investors may be switching their views on Federal Reserve interest rate policy. They began this year expecting the Fed to cut its interest rate target as the economy slowed. Now they are wondering if the next Fed move will be a rate increase if the economy keeps moving along at last year's 3.9 percent pace.
Another factor is that growth around the rest of the world may be bottoming, rather than continuing to decline. If that is the case, renewed buying of American exports could keep the economy growing too rapidly. Mr. Schoenholtz said that business confidence indicators in Europe had begun to trough and that there were some signs of revival in Asia.
He also said that even if interest rates moved higher, they should begin to fall again later this year. One reason is that inflation will remain low. The other, he said, is that he believes higher interest rates will undermine the stock market. A stagnant or falling stock market will, in turn, slow consumer spending. And that would put the brakes on the economy, letting interest rates drop again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Jan, 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); INTEL CORP (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



278 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: And the Road Runner Fosters Disrespect for Speed Limits

BYLINE: By Jeff MacGregor; Jeff MacGregor is a writer in Manhattan.

 BODY:
CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL REPORT! READ AND DESTROY!
To: The Reverend Jerry Falwell 
 From: Special Detectives Hunt, Wordsworth and Peck
RE: Teletubby Surveillance/Children's Television Investigation
Pursuant to client's request for character profiles, loyalty/liability crosschecks and deep background information on "Teletubbies," our investigation yielded data as follows:
Teletubby "Tinky Winky": Purple in color, subject Teletubby is observed to carry a purse, yet speaks in a man's voice. Subject antenna triangular in shape.
Interpretation: Extensive investigation reveals purple to be "gay pride" color (i.e. concord grapes, Minnesota Vikings, etc.). F.Y.I. Barney the Dinosaur is another roly-poly, aubergine children's favorite. He loves to dance and sing, but doesn't seem to wear pants. The Tinky Winky purse is doubtless a feminizing icon deployed as a gender-confusing subterfuge. Subject Teletubby also speaks with vague British accent. Oscar Wilde lived in Britain.
Conclusion: Subject Teletubby "Tinky Winky" is obviously the subliminal spokestubby for the "homosexual" or "gay" life style.
Teletubby "Po": Red in color, with circular antenna.
Interpretation: Red has long been the symbolic color of global Communism. The name "Po" could be taken from the river in Italy (a hotbed of failed quasi-Communist policies), or derived from the name of the Cambodian madman, Pol Pot. The circular antenna represents the circular arguments that underlie the tenets of Marxist-Leninist social and economic theory.
Conclusion: Subject Teletubby "Po" is the subliminal spokestubby for a resurgent international Communist revolution.
Alternate Conclusion: "Po" might be a reference to Edgar Allan Poe, a neurotic 19th-century writer, just like Oscar Wilde. (See above.)
Teletubby "Laa-Laa": Bright yellow/orange in color, antenna shaped like pig's tail.
Interpretation: "Laa-Laa" is an obvious reference to Los Angeles (often called "La-La Land" by gossip columnists and other waggish hipsters). Her bright citrus colors are an ironic nod to the wholesome crops of lemons and oranges that once flourished in the pious San Fernando Valley and Hollywood Hills, but that have since been replaced by the degenerate entertainment industry.
Conclusion: "Laa-Laa" is the spokestubby for the National Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences or the Screen Actors Guild, and is subliminally encouraging our children to seek work in the entertainment industry.
Teletubby "Dipsy": Green in color, subject Teletubby has a straw coming out of his head.
Interpretation: Looks like a giant frozen daiquiri.
Conclusion: Blender drinks are popular among supporters of alternative life styles.
That these Teletubbies take their marching orders from speakers that rise up from the ground (a metaphor delineating Orwellian mind control?) is bad enough. That they live in a kind of dome under a windmill that spins out a spiral of what look like bright white crystals should be reason enough for investigation by state authorities. That they do so without the benefit of marriage (or clothes!) is inexcusable.
The F.B.I. investigations of Rocky and Bullwinkle, Bert and Ernie, Heckle and Jeckle, etc., prove beyond doubt that these sort of same-sex partnerships send the wrong message to our children. That Yogi Bear and his partner, Booboo, choose to spend their time in the forest, again many times without pants, is their right, but it is our right and duty to keep children from seeing it.
We therefore conclude that your instinct about the true nature of the Teletubbies is correct: they are a subversive force for international evil, operating in league with a global cabal of gay television executives and purse manufacturers, bent on nothing less than world domination.
ADDENDUM: Further investigation into your controversial assertion last month that the Antichrist is a Jewish man living on earth at this moment has yielded an interesting theory.
While watching television for the Teletubbies report filed above, one of our operatives noticed a male cartoon character who thrived on the kind of anarchy and confusion usually ascribed to the Antichrist. His name even employs the Yiddish word for a long, convoluted story or series of events.
It is our conviction, therefore, that you can announce with impunity at your next national press conference that one "Magilla Gorilla" is the Antichrist.
Our bill follows under separate cover. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: TELETUBBIES (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (58%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HOMOSEXUALITY CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); SPEED LIMITS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); WRITERS (62%); FILM (60%); 

PERSON: FALWELL, JERRY (REV); MACGREGOR, JEFF MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



279 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Japan Lowers Key Rate, but (Surprise) Bond Yields Go Higher;
Banks to Pay 0.15% For Overnight Loans

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Responding to escalating pressures at home and abroad, Japan's central bank said today that it would guide down the influential overnight interest rate to a hair above zero from a quarter percent, which had been its lowest level ever.
But the decision by the Bank of Japan also sent a clear message that it would not take more aggressive steps to help reverse a sharp rise in long-term Japanese interest rates that has threatened to choke Japan's economic recovery and has put upward pressure on rates around the world. 
 Rather than pushing down long-term rates, the Bank of Japan's move had an immediate opposite effect. Investors sold 10-year bonds, sending their price tumbling, and their yield, which moves in the opposite direction, higher.
The ripple effects of the central bank's move extended to the United States, where long-term Treasury bond prices tumbled and pushed yields to the highest level since August. The bond selloff spread to stocks, which lost most of their gains from Thursday.
The Bank of Japan's move will bring down to 0.15 percent the rate charged to banks on overnight loans. But the central bank also said it would supply an abundance of funds to expand the money supply. This in theory could mean that the overnight rate could fall effectively to zero.
The move was seen as little more than a modest attempt to allay widespread fears that long-term interest rates, which have tripled in the last few months to 2.4 percent and driven up the yen's value, could squelch Japan's recovery from the worst recession since the end of World War II.
Although still low by world standards, Japan's rising long-term interest rates are harmful to its economy because they raise borrowing costs and discourage consumers from spending. The rising yen is harmful because it hurts Japanese exports.
"It's a very weak move," said Xinyi Lu, a fixed-income strategist at Paribas Capital Markets Ltd. in Tokyo, referring to the Bank of Japan's announcement today. "The BOJ tried hard to show people it is paying attention to the market and that it is listening to the politicians a little bit. But it's losing face."
Government officials have been saying that the economy will pick up in the summer. Yet, economists and policy makers from around the world have been calling on Japanese policy makers to take increasingly drastic measures to pull Japan out of a deflationary spiral. They have urged Japan to pour more money into the financial system and to calm the recent turmoil in the bond markets, one of the world's largest.
Today's move by the Bank of Japan will probably not cure any of these ills in the long term, financial experts say.
The market jitteriness has increased anxiety among Japan's Members of Parliament, who have jumped into a debate over what the Bank of Japan should do with monetary policy. Even Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, who has essentially promised to deliver an economic recovery to the nation this year, is expressing concerns.
Japan's looming budget deficit, its swelling Government debt and the giant spending packages the Government is carrying out to stimulate the economy have cast a dark shadow over the markets, leading investors to dump bonds in recent weeks, a main reason why the yields have risen so much.
This year, Japan is set to be the world's largest issuer of national bonds, issuing nine of every 10 bonds, according to J. P. Morgan. In contrast, the United States is enjoying a budget surplus and is shaving the volume of Treasury bonds it plans to issue.
The volume of bonds Tokyo will have to issue domestically is startling and has Japanese bond investors worried that there will not be enough buyers for those bonds. Throughout the world, Japan is typically thought of as a source, rather than an absorber, of capital.
Many market strategists have said the Government should promise to buy some of those bonds to reduce the supply, which would raise bond prices, lower yields and lead to falling interest rates and a cheaper yen. But the Bank of Japan's move today indicated that the Government had no such intentions.
Some politicians have begun to call for more extreme measures, demanding that the Bank of Japan effectively print money by buying national bonds outright. But the central bank has ruled out such a strategy because it would cause inflation.
The direct impact of today's rate reduction may save only about $250 million to $350 million in lower interest costs in the overnight market over the course of a year. The Bank of Japan, however, seems to be aiming for a broader spillover effect that is probably more psychological than direct.
So Japan finds itself in a quandary. Short-term interest rates are already so low that further lowering them is likely to have minimal effect, and yet policy makers still need to ease monetary policy to stimulate the economy.
"This is a test case for the world," said Mr. Lu at Paribas Capital Markets. "We have never seen so many different measures come together in an advanced country -- and not work."
In September, the Bank of Japan lowered the overnight rate to 0.25 percent, from 0.50 percent. In November, it stepped up open market operations, a means of adding money to the market, and then set up a mechanism to encourage banks to lend more to corporations on an emergency basis. Today, it said it would cut that rate in half, to 0.25 percent, mainly to complement the reduction in the overnight rate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; BUDGETS AND FINANCES; JAPAN BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); JAPANESE YEN (69%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



280 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Says Japan, Brazil Dumped Steel

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration ruled today that Japan and Brazil had illegally dumped steel in the United States at prices as much as 70 percent below normal, and said that it would impose enormous penalty tariffs on their products to protect the jobs of American steelworkers.
The ruling from the Commerce Department came after a considerable battle within the Administration over how to handle the complaints of steel companies and the politically powerful steelworkers' union. While the Commerce Department and the Office of the United States Trade Representative advocated strong action, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and others in the Administration have argued that the United States should not appear to be closing its doors to foreign goods, especially as Asia and Latin America are trying to use exports to ease their financial crisis. 
 Actions against "dumped" products are always a mix of economic and political calculation, and today's announcement was no exception. Russian steel, which American steelmakers complain has also been sold here at illegally low prices, was temporarily exempted from today's ruling. In a gesture to Moscow, the Commerce Department said that it would continue its investigation into Russia's practices through the middle of next week, while it negotiates an agreement that could allow Russia to export steel to the United States in limited amounts, at set prices.
"It's extremely important that we not cut off one of the few sources of raising hard currency that the Russians have right now," one of President Clinton's top economic advisers said today. "There's a very delicate balance between protecting our industry and not worsening a crisis in Russia that is clearly getting worse."
Today's action covers only hot-rolled steel. Technically, it would not go into effect until a final ruling is issued in 75 days. But final rulings rarely vary much from preliminary rulings -- which is what were released today -- and Commerce Secretary William M. Daley has already invoked a special provision of the trade laws that permits him to invoke the duties retroactively, to November.
Part of the Administration's calculation in acting today was to head off a movement in Congress to impose quotas on imported steel. Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, a West Virginia Democrat, is one of several lawmakers from steel-producing states who have advocated such limits. Today, shortly after voting to acquit President Clinton on both impeachment charges, Mr. Rockefeller said that the ruling "represents only a small step toward stopping the flood of cheap imports."
The steel dispute may provide something of an early test of Mr. Clinton's persuasive abilities in a post-impeachment Congress. He is now deeply indebted to Democratic lawmakers, who have tended to take a far more protectionist view of how to deal with imports than Mr. Clinton has. "He owes these guys a lot," one White House aide noted recently, "and they are going to come looking for his help."
Today, Mr. Daley said that the Administration opposed quotas, and he insisted that its quick ruling on dumping showed that it was prepared to act.
"We think now we're on top of this," he said. "The dumping margins we've found are substantial, and if they hold up in the final ruling, which we expect they will, it will substantially reduce imports."
In fact, recent statistics show that steel imports from Japan and Brazil are already on the decline, a sign that both countries are reacting to considerable political pressure from the United States. Some of that has been encouraged by Vice President Al Gore, who, Administration officials say, has taken an intense interest in an issue that clearly will be an election issue in steel-producing states.
 The announcement this afternoon came too late for reaction from the Japanese Government, which has long argued that exchange rates and depressed commodity prices worldwide, not unfair pricing, account for the flood of low-cost Japanese hot-rolled steel. But the Japan Steel Information Center, financed by the Japanese steel industry, said that the dumping charges were "unjustified, ill considered and counterproductive."
Here in Washington, David H. Phelps, the executive director of the American Institute for International Steel, which is financed by importers and exporters of foreign-produced steel, contended that the "domestic steel industry has abused this process to protect its market."
"Nobody is going to pay these kinds of duties," he said, arguing that the reduction in steel imports "has already taken place."
As a result of today's rulings, importers of Japanese and Brazilian steel will have to pay deposits or post bonds on their steel imports to the United States Customs Service. Full payment of duties would not begin until a final ruling is made on April 28. The anti-dumping margins calculated by the Commerce Department -- in essence, the difference between the cost of producing and shipping the steel and the price at which it was sold -- ranged from 25.14 percent to 67.59 percent for Japanese producers, and 50.66 percent to 71.02 percent for Brazilian producers.
Politically, the higher duties on Japanese goods are an easy sell in the Clinton Administration. But the Treasury Department is clearly worried about Brazil, which is still negotiating with the International Monetary Fund on amendments to the country's financial bailout plan, which collapsed in January.
Russia is an even more sensitive issue in Washington. With the Russian economy headed steadily down, the Administration clearly did not want to be blamed for worsening unemployment in Russia's steel centers. It is able to negotiate an agreement with Russia on all its steel products because Russia is not yet a member of the World Trade Organization, which has strict rules on bilateral side deals to set limits and prices on trade of any kind. Brazil and Japan are members, and so cannot negotiate similar deals. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE; BRAZIL; JAPAN IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



281 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Travel Chaos as Sickout by Pilots Continues

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Creating chaos on the busiest travel day of the Presidents' Day holiday weekend, American Airlines was once again forced to cancel about half its scheduled flights yesterday because of the labor dispute with its pilots.
More than a fourth of the airline's pilots called in sick in defiance of a Federal judge's order, disrupting air travel across the country for the seventh day. 
 In Miami, Boston, New York and other cities, the police and passengers described scenes of overcrowded terminals and irate passengers, some of whom erupted into screaming at American's passenger service representatives. At the American terminal at Kennedy International Airport in New York, Port Authority police were sent to quell several dozen angry passengers.
American, in turn, appealed to the judge, Joe Kendall of the Federal District Court in Dallas, to hold the pilots' union in contempt for failing to comply with his order. But the judge put off his ruling until this morning, although he strongly warned the union to press the 2,443 pilots who called in sick yesterday to return to work.
American, a subsidiary of the AMR Corporation, canceled 1,102 of its 2,250 scheduled flights yesterday. It also canceled 536 scheduled flights today and 290 flights tomorrow, although those numbers are expected to rise significantly if the pilots' sickout continues. Airline officials said they announced the cancellations because of staffing problems and because so many airplanes were out of position.
In one measure of passenger frustration, Steve Vives, 39, a resident of the Bronx who stood in line for hours at Kennedy yesterday before abandoning his attempt to fly to Aruba, shouted, "The pilots should be arrested and put in jail!"
In Miami, hundreds of passengers took up a vulgar chant directed at American.
What apparently pushed many passengers over the edge was the realization that they really did not have any prospect of getting to their destination, on American or on other airlines. Most of the passengers on other airlines had booked their flights days or even weeks ago, airline spokesmen said, because they realized that planes usually fly full at or near capacity during a three-day holiday.
"Our clients were pretty understanding for the first few days of the strike," said Kay Dickson, who owns a travel agency in Fort Worth, "but now a lot of them are angry and they're booking on other airlines for flights even a month from now."
The airport anger was in some cases shared by American employees. When one of her clients complained to an American employee at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, said Nancy A. Strong, a Dallas travel agent, the employee snapped back: "We're not to blame. Take up your complaints with the pilots."
Several travel agents, including Ms. Strong, said that the chaos that reached a peak yesterday was likely to give ammunition to demands for a so-called passenger bill of rights, including, for example, the bill recently introduced in Congress that would require airlines to pay passengers double the cost of their tickets for delays of two hours or more, and triple after three hours. "At least it's something," Ms. Strong said, "because now passengers have no recourse."
American Airlines passengers bound for Latin America, where the carrier is also a powerhouse, had to move quickly in order to re-book on other airlines. But many flights to South America had at least some seats available, because of the growing number of airlines flying those routes in the last several years, and by the difference in seasons in the Northern and Southern Hemisphere.
"This is the end of the summer in Argentina and Chile, but because a lot of businessmen in those countries aren't yet back from vacation, business travel to both countries is lighter than usual," said Alex Degunten, vice president of international flights for Lan Chile Airlines, which itself has almost 40 flights a week between Chile and the United States. "Also, Chile is one of the few countries where American is not No. 1."
Business comes to a virtual standstill this time of year in Brazil, where Carnival brings back thousands of Brazilian citizens who live in the United States, and brings many American tourists as well.
"About 75 to 80 percent of the traffic to Brazil at Carnival is Brazilian, and planes are carrying heavy loads," said Paulo Leite, the area sales manager in New York for Varig Brazilian Airlines, which has almost 50 flights a week between Brazil and the United States. But with so many airlines now flying that route, he added, and because of the current weakness of the Brazilian currency, Varig does not plan to add additional flights.
Cruise lines in South Florida were relieved yesterday when American reinstated many of the flights to Miami that it had canceled over the last week. For days cruise line officials worried how the American cancellations would affect the approximately 40,000 passengers who were booked on Caribbean cruises this weekend, and about the same number of passengers who were due back into port from last week's cruises.
That question will not be answered finally until tomorrow. Meantime, though, Norwegian Cruise Line had weeks ago chartered planes to fly passengers to and from Miami this weekend, knowing that space on airplanes would be at a premium. And Royal Caribbean managed to charter three planes beginning last Wednesday to accommodate passengers flying to and from Boston, Newark, Philadelphia and Baltimore.
In all the turmoil, there were some humorous moments. Some stranded passengers, for example, were chortling over a news article about a passenger whose American flight to Dallas from Toronto on Tuesday had been canceled, forcing him to fly back on Continental. That passenger: Robert L. Crandall, the hard-driving former chairman and chief executive of American, who had himself presided over strikes involving flight attendants and pilots. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMR (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMR CORP (82%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT AIRLINES (91%); AIR SERVICE (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (84%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



282 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Leonard J. Arrington, 81, Mormon Historian

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Leonard James Arrington, the dean of Mormon historians, died on Thursday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 81.
The cause was heart failure, his family said. 
 An economist by training, Dr. Arrington had a notable parallel career as an economic historian of the American West, especially of the Utah Territory. His works in that area included "The Changing Economic Structure of the Mountain West, 1850-1950" (1963) and, with Gary B. Hansen, "The Richest Hole on Earth: A History of the Bingham Copper Mine" (1963). Both remain in print, as do a dozen other of his titles.
He directed the history division of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and from 1972 to 1980 served as Church Historian. He was the first professional historian to hold that office.
His tenure occurred during an interlude when the Mormon Church allowed outside academics relatively free access to its archives. When that period came to a close he was replaced with a more conservative scholar.
Dr. Arrington wrote "Brigham Young: American Moses" (Knopf, 1985), an authoritative biography of Young, molder of Mormonism and successor to the faith's founder, Joseph Smith. The book covers a long stretch of the Mormon experience, and, though Mr. Arrington was not uncritical, some reviewers observed that he skimmed over some intriguing aspects of it.
Of Young himself, Dr. Arrington observed that he embodied "the supreme American paradox, not because he contained elements foreign to American soil but because he united them -- the business genius of a Rockefeller with the spiritual sensitivities of an Emerson, the lusty enjoyment of the pleasures of good living with the tenderness of a Florence Nightingale."
Dr. Arrington told the story of his own rich life in "Adventures of a Church Historian" (University of Illinois Press, 1998). Straying from his usual style of the aloof scholar, he consented to tell in it of some spiritual experiences as a Mormon that had influenced his personal life and his work.
Leonard Arrington was born in Twin Falls, Idaho, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Idaho in 1939. He also graduated from the Latter-day Saints Institute of Religion before serving in the Army in North Africa and Italy in World War II. He earned a Ph.D. in economics at the University of North Carolina in 1952.
He taught at the University of Utah from 1946 to 1972, rising to professor of economic history. Then, until 1987, he was the Lemuel Redd Professor of Western History at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah and directed the Charles Redd Center for Western History for some of those years.
Altogether, he wrote 21 books on American, Western and Mormon history and published hundreds of articles in professional journals. In the late 1950's he was a Fulbright professor at the University of Genoa, Italy, and wrote "Introduzione Alla Storia Economica Degli Stati Uniti," published in Genoa in 1959.
Dr. Arrington's first wife, Grace Fort Arrington, died in 1982 after 39 years of marriage. He is survived by his wife, Harriet Horne Arrington; his sons, James W., of Orem, Utah, and Carl W., of Larchmont, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Madsen of Hyde Park, Utah; two stepdaughters, Annette Rogers of Phoenix and Heidi Swinton of Salt Lake City; and two stepsons, Frederick C. Sorensen and Stephen Moody of Salt Lake City.
Also surviving are five brothers, Kenneth R. and Donald C., of Twin Falls, Wayne, of Sacramento, Calif., Ralph M., of Mesa, Ariz., and Ross L. of Vacaville, Calif; two sisters, Marie Davidson of Burley, Idaho, and Doris E. Shelley of Twin Falls; 9 grandchildren, and 10 step-grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Arrington (Rick Egan/Salt Lake City Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (71%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); PROVO, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%); THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (71%); UTAH, USA (95%); IDAHO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); PROVO, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (93%); HISTORY (92%); RELIGION (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); COPPER MINING (55%); 

PERSON: ARRINGTON, LEONARD JAMES SIR GEORGE YOUNG (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



283 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Waves From Brazilian Economic Crisis Pound a Uruguayan Beach Resort

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: PUNTA DEL ESTE, Uruguay, Feb. 11

 BODY:
World War II and the Spanish Civil War devastated much of Europe, but this breezy corner of Uruguay's coastline prospered from a flock of well-heeled exiles who came here to escape.
The 1970's and 80's brought death squads and hyperinflation to the Southern Cone, but when Argentina's rich whisked their capital out of Buenos Aires they brought it to Punta del Este and sunk it into the mansions and condominiums that made this sprawling resort South America's answer to Miami Beach, the Hamptons and the French Riviera. 
 But the "Samba Effect" -- as the recent 35 percent fall in the value of the Brazilian currency, the real, is called here -- appears to be a different sort of crisis, one that even Punta can't resist.
In recent days Brazilian tour groups began canceling hotel reservations in droves, and condominiums have been forced to cut their weekly rents by up to 20 percent compared with last February. Wealthy Brazilians who began to come here in the last five years with their overvalued reals are canceling party bashes and projecting a much lower profile.
And in a sign that Brazil's woes are beginning to affect Argentina's economy and hurt that country's free-spending upper middle class, the Argentine tourists here are cutting their stays and spending less money. A growing number of Argentines who used to come to Punta switched plans at the last minute this year to go to Brazilian beach resorts like Florianopolis where their strong pesos now go much farther.
Punta remains a rarified place where American dollars and Argentine and Uruguayan pesos are exchanged interchangeably in large denominations. The likes of Julio Iglesias, Omar Sharif and Pamela Anderson still order bottles of 1990 Dom Perignon at $350 a pop.
Cabbies drive pastel yellow Mercedes-Benzes, and charge $25 for a 15-minute ride to the airport. Million-dollar weekend homes shaded by pine trees and graced with immaculately landscaped gardens are common in neighborhoods like Beverly Hills, Sausalito and Parque de Golf.
But Punta's business elite is crying the blues over the fallout from the Brazilian crisis, made worse by some unusually inclement weather this beach season. Many express concerns that the slump may accelerate trends in the hotel and real estate markets that are bound to change this resort radically over the next 10 years or so. "Nobody here expected the Brazilian real to collapse," said Oscar Rubio Fajardo, who directs the Uruguayan Government's tourism office here. "It's a bomb that exploded, and nobody knows where the shrapnel will land."
Such language reflects the fact that Uruguay is more dependent on tourism than any other country in South America, and Punta del Este is the crown jewel of Uruguayan resorts. Last year tourism directly generated nearly $800 million in business for this country of 3.2 million people, and the industry represents about 35 percent of the economy when services and tourism-related construction are included.
The number of Brazilians who visited Uruguay over the first five weeks of this year decreased to 25,038 from 28,251 over the same period in 1998, according to Government statistics, and the rate of decrease has widened every week since the real began to fall on Jan. 13.
With beef, rice and dairy exports to Brazil also expected to decline this year, economists predict that Uruguay's economy could contract as much as 2 percent in 1999 after several years of steady growth. Unemployment, which ended last year at 10 percent, could rise as high as 15 percent, economists say.
Crime is not a major problem here yet, but a growing number of homeowners are installing bars on their windows just in case -- one of many telltale signs that Punta is changing.
The opening of a modern international airport linking Punta with Argentina and Brazil three years ago along with the inauguration of the 300-room Conrad Resort and Casino in 1997 have ushered in a new era.
The days are coming to an end when Punta del Este could depend on Argentines -- who still represent 70 percent of the visitors here -- to rent apartments and mansions for four to eight weeks summer after summer. Big hotels will probably mark Punta's future, local businessmen say, and Hyatt and Sheraton are actively looking to make investments.
"Life styles are changing," said Luis Sader, a leading real estate broker here. "People now go to Punta del Este one year, Miami the next. Our business is bad."
Young Argentines still love to come to Punta -- in fact visits by Argentine tourists are actually up a bit this year -- but they are more likely to stay a week or less.
The Conrad, partly owned by Hilton, reported a 65 percent occupancy rate so far this February, below expectations. "We have to rethink the way we do business," said Alejandro Pariente, the Conrad's director of sales and marketing. That means bringing in conventions and gamblers from March to December, Punta's long off-season, attracting them with sporting events and entertainment acts like the Brazilian singer Simone and samba groups like Banda Eva.
And business leaders are beginning to think about attracting American tourists -- a rarity here -- with packages including Buenos Aires as a second destination. The idea is called Mercotur, a takeoff on Mercosur, the regional trade zone.
"In Punta del Este we're channel surfers," said Martin Castillo, the owner of Galeria Sur, Punta's most prestigious art gallery. "The changes can be abrupt."
Not too abrupt, Mr. Castillo hopes. He and other dealers here are selling fewer works, but Mr. Castillo saved his season a few weeks ago when he arranged to sell two large paintings by Fernando Botero, the Colombian artist, to a Brazilian industrialist for several hundred thousand dollars.
"There should be no problem with payment," he said, "but I'm keeping my fingers crossed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Punta del Este: The tourist industry in Punta del Este may try to lure Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: URUGUAY (97%); BRAZIL (96%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); RESORT&CASINO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESORT&CASINO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUNTA DEL ESTE (URUGUAY); URUGUAY; BRAZIL; URUGUAY (97%); BRAZIL (96%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY BEACHES (90%); RESORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WORLD WAR II (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); LODGING (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (75%); TRENDS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); TOURISM (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (65%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



284 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Adds School Funds To His Budget

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Under fire for his proposed education budget, Gov. George E. Pataki called today for spending an additional $115 million to create a new program to help elementary school children improve their reading skills.
The program brings the total that Mr. Pataki wants to spend on primary and secondary education to $12.02 billion for the coming school year, a $269 million increase from the current school year. Of that increase, $76 million would go to New York City schools. 
 In the budget he presented last month, Mr. Pataki proposed increasing aid to schools by $154 million, to $11.91 billion. But he came under intense criticism from elected leaders and educators across the state, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the New York City Schools Chancellor, Rudy Crew, who accused him of shortchanging students.
The reading program was among several changes that Mr. Pataki made to his original budget proposal. Under state law, the Governor has 30 days to amend his budget proposal before the Legislature takes it up for consideration. Mr. Pataki submitted the changes to lawmakers today, 14 days before the deadline.
Among the other changes the Governor made were proposals to provide $53 million for railroad and bus lines in the New York City region, $2 million in tax credits to encourage the construction of low-income housing for the elderly and $100,000 to build a memorial at Smith Point in Suffolk County for passengers who died aboard Trans World Airlines Flight 800 in July 1996. He also increased funding for the attorney general's office, after originally calling for a slight cut.
Despite the changes, Mr. Pataki's proposed total budget of $72.7 billion continues to keep a tight reign on year-to-year spending increases by sharply limiting the growth of certain programs. Despite the fact that state officials project a budget surplus of roughly $2 billion, Mr. Pataki's proposed budget provides a modest 1.8 percent increase for the fiscal year that begins April 1, largely by making substantial cuts to health care and education programs.
The budget faces strong opposition from lawmakers in both parties, who are clamoring to tap into the state's large tax revenue and its surplus to restore the cuts Mr. Pataki is seeking.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat of Manhattan, issued a statement this afternoon that said Mr. Pataki's budget changes were inadequate. In the statement Mr. Silver said, "It is unfortunate that the Governor has failed to use this opportunity to address the needs of children, senior citizens, college students and working families of New York State."
But in a statement Mr. Pataki released with his budget amendments, he said his budget managed to be fiscally responsible while meeting the needs of the state.
"This executive budget along with the 30-day amendment package we are submitting today will continue to allow us to manage New York's prosperity with fiscal prudence and open the door to even greater progress," he said.
Mr. Pataki's announcement of the new reading program was clearly intended to blunt some of the criticism he has faced as a result of the relatively small increase he had originally sought in his education budget. The program is to help first, second, third and fourth graders prepare for new rigorous reading exams that state education officials now require.
The changes Mr. Pataki announced today did little to mollify his critics. He continued to be taken to task for eliminating a package of education programs for very young children, including prekindergarten and expanded kindergarten offerings, for freezing aid to public colleges and for sharply reducing tuition aid to poor college students.
Steven K. Allinger, a lobbyist for the New York City Board of Education, said that although board officials were pleased with the new reading initiative, they were still concerned about the money city schools would lose as a result of other cuts.
"We welcome any initiative that will help children achieve grade-level literacy in the early years," Mr. Allinger said. "We hope this can serve as an opportunity to discuss the full range of our other needs."
Mr. Pataki's aides defended his record on education. They said that in the last two years, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature had sharply increased spending on schools, and that the total, when adjusted for inflation and the number of students, matched highs reached in the late 1980's.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD RADIO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; READING AND WRITING SKILLS BUDGETS (93%); EDUCATION FUNDING (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); FAMILY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AGING (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



285 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Reassures U.S. on Air Base

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Turkey reassured the United States today that despite its decision to receive a high-ranking Iraqi official, it will continue allowing American warplanes to use a base in Turkey for attacks on Iraq.
"It is a decision made by Parliament, and only the Parliament can change that," Foreign Minister Ismail Cem told reporters in Ankara. "The Government cannot do anything about it and does not have the intention, in any case." 
 The Clinton Administration has expressed displeasure at the Turkish announcement that Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq would arrive here on Monday for talks. The visit will be made as the United States seems to be making headway in its efforts to isolate the Iraqi Government.
Mr. Aziz's visit is part of an Iraqi campaign to break out of that isolation. In recent days, Foreign Minister Mohammed Said al-Sahaf has visited Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia bearing letters to their leaders from President Saddam Hussein. Mr. Sahaf is expected to visit other Arab and African countries soon.
Turkish leaders have told their American allies that they are not seeking to undermine United States policy toward Iraq. They say that as a neighbor of Iraq they have to maintain contact with the Government there.
"It's natural to try to broaden our ties with our neighbors," Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said at a news conference.
He will offer "constructive proposals" to Mr. Aziz, he said, but did not elaborate.
"Those who are worried about this meeting will see their concerns are unfounded," Mr. Ecevit said.
American military planes based at Incirlik in southern Turkey have been regularly attacking Iraqi positions in response to Iraqi violations of the no-flight zones in northern and southern Iraq.
Several Turkish leaders including Mr. Ecevit have suggested that they are uncomfortable with the steady raids.
The United States and Turkey are NATO allies and cooperate closely on a host of military and political issues. But there is growing resentment that American policymakers have not consulted Turkey more fully on issues related to Iraq. Turkey was a member of the allied coalition in the Persian Gulf war, but has not been pleased with United States policy toward Iraq since the war ended.
Before the war, much of southeastern Turkey lived from border trade with Iraq. Most of that trade has been cut off because of trade sanctions that the United Nations has imposed on Iraq. Turkey has lost billions of dollars, and thousands of families in the border area have lost their livelihoods.
Turkish leaders are also unhappy about the American role in creating and sustaining a Kurdish haven in northern Iraq. They say it has become a sanctuary for Kurdish guerrillas who operate in Turkey, as well as an unwelcome model for Turkish Kurds, who would like a self-governing enclave of their own.
"The Turks want to be players, and they don't want to give Iraq the sense that they are 100 percent beholden to the Americans," a senior European diplomat based in Ankara said. "They're suffering economically from the sanctions, and they're living next to a mad dictator who's being bombed every day and who might strike out against his neighbors. There's a feeling of insecurity in the neighborhood. It's very natural that they should want to take Iraq's pulse and see if they can start a dialogue."
Turkish military commanders, who traditionally support close ties with the United States, would probably oppose any effort to move the country closer to Iraq. Their concerns have been underlined in recent days by a debate over the new Iraqi Ambassador to Turkey, Faruk Hejazi. News reports have identified Mr. Hejazi as a former top official of the Iraqi intelligence service.
Mr. Aziz's planned visit to Turkey has become a major topic of political and diplomatic speculation here, and news commentators have focused on it. One called it "no ordinary diplomatic event." Another, referring to the negative reaction from Washington, said, "This is not exactly a crisis, but the atmosphere has certainly been stirred up." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); MOROCCO (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); MOROCCO (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); ECEVIT, BULENT (PRIME MIN); KINZER, STEPHEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



286 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S ACQUITTAL: NEWS ANALYSIS;
The Fallout Of the Trial

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12

 BODY:
There are those who think it will end up as Much Ado About Nothing, at least as far as the country, its political culture and its institutions of government are concerned.
"I don't think the whole impeachment drama will have much long-term impact on anybody or anything except President Clinton," said Howard H. Baker Jr., the former Republican Senator from Tennessee, who made his name during the Watergate hearings. "And even the impact on him is questionable." 
 But Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian and passionate Clinton defender, begs to differ. A Democrat who served John F. Kennedy as a White House adviser, Mr. Schlesinger sees the travail of President Clinton as an event of considerable moment.
"The failed impeachment of Andrew Johnson left a wounded, weakened Presidency, one that lasted for many years," he said, "and I think the failed impeachment of Bill Clinton will do the same thing."
If it was imprudent to predict many months ago how the drama would end, as it finally did today, to the relief of almost everyone, it might be considered downright foolhardy to guess at its consequences. But that does not stop Washington or Washington-watchers elsewhere from trying.
Few people doubt that the events of the last year have coarsened the national political discourse. It is as if Mr. Clinton's own habit of pushing the limits -- "indulging all choices and accepting no consequences," as Representative James E. Rogan of California, one of the House managers, put it last week -- infected the behavior of all the major players.
The capital has witnessed the breakdown of long-standing codes of behavior on every side. Senior Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee accused their Republican counterparts of staging a coup d'etat; Trent Lott, the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, strongly suggested that the President was bombing Iraq to deflect attention from his domestic political problems.
The conduct of the independent counsel in the Lewinsky case, Kenneth W. Starr, has attracted so much opprobrium that Congress is considering allowing the Watergate-era law authorizing independent counsels to lapse.
Among the news media, a ravenous appetite for scandal has developed. More salacious details about politicians have been talked about and written about than at any time in modern history, and some of the mainstream media have joined less well-established and more marginal outlets in the barrage.
If the story of Monica and Bill and Ken and Henry has revulsed a large portion of the American people, it has turned off foreigners, too.
"A story with no heroes, no morals, no lessons," The Financial Times of London called it last weekend, "just self-obsessed individuals in a fight for survival, a vast landscape painting of life as it truly is in Washington at the turn of the millennium, a Guernica of overfed egoes."
The question is, how permanent is the damage? Is the nation witnessing merely an extreme example of Jefferson's maxim that "no man will ever bring out of the Presidency the reputation that carries him into it," or something much more substantial?
Some in the Senate feel that the constitutional system worked in the Clinton impeachment just as well as it had worked 25 years earlier.
"You can argue that the House overstepped the line by impeaching the President," said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who voted to convict Mr. Clinton on both articles. "You can argue that we should have removed him from office. But for me, the point is that the process went forward the way the framers intended. That revalidates the Constitution and it means that whatever happens to the reputation of individual Presidents, the Presidency remains strong."
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who presided over trial, took leave of the Senate with compliments for the way it had comported itself.
Only the most ardent loyalists doubt that Mr. Clinton has besmirched his reputation, more or less permanently. Even those who denounced the whole impeachment process as a Republican vendetta denounced the President's conduct in the next breath, using savage adjectives like "shameful," "despicable" and "disgraceful."
Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, a Democrat who fights his party's corner as hard as any man, said this week: "History will judge his actions and significant lapses of judgment harshly, as it should." Statements like that will make the revisionists' work harder.
In a thousand books yet to be written, the word "impeachment" will cling to the name "Clinton" like a limpet. But there may be other, kinder words as well. It may be that history will remember Mr. Clinton as something more than the second President ever to stand trial in the Senate.
Richard M. Nixon managed a partial rehabilitation of his name, and he was driven from office, as Mr. Clinton was not. Through his writings and the urgings of those who had worked for him, through the success of some of his policies, Nixon came to be seen as an intelligent, accomplished President brought low by tragic flaws. That cheers Mr. Clinton's acolytes.
The President's rehabilitation effort began today, and how well it succeeds will depend in part on what he is able to achieve in his remaining 23 months in office.
Some signs are positive: the collegial attitude of the new speaker, Representative Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois; Mr. Clinton's demonstrated ability to score at least limited successes abroad, as in the Middle East, even when the going was toughest at home; his continued high standing in the polls, and the astonishing buoyancy of the economy.
But the ominous polarization that has plagued Washington has been intensified by the impeachment process. Mr. Clinton was impeached by the House along party lines. Ten Republicans in the Senate joined all the Democrats in voting to acquit him of perjury, and five voted to acquit him of obstruction of justice. But they were mostly northeastern moderates who vote with the Democrats on important policy issues fairly often, and not mainstream Republican conservatives with no history of breaking party ranks.
Mr. Clinton's credibility has been severely damaged, which could prove a serious handicap in future negotiations with Congress. Representative Tom DeLay of Texas said of the President a few weeks ago, "I don't believe a word he says." Democrats dismissed that as the ranting of a Republican bomb-thrower.
But it is not as easy to discount the statement this week by Senator Richard G. Lugar, a level-headed Republican from Indiana, who said during the final deliberations earlier this week, "He is not trustworthy."
If, as predicted, Mr. Clinton mounts a campaign to punish the House prosecutors at the polls next year, that will certainly do little to advance his legislative agenda. And if, as his State of the Union message suggested, he veers away from his centrist, smaller-government philosophy to reward the liberals who have stood beside him, that could hurt him as well.
Another imponderable is Mr. Starr's follow-up to impeachment. If he tries to indict Mr. Clinton before the President leaves office, that would put a crimp in a comeback.
It is a lot harder to calculate how much the office, as opposed to the man, has been damaged.
Professor Schlesinger looks to the 19th century and the example of Andrew Johnson, and it is undeniable that he was followed by a succession of second-rate Presidents of both parties. The parade of mediocrities lasted for three decades, until the election of Theodore Roosevelt in 1904.
But were the Presidents of that day passive because Johnson's impeachment had undercut the authority of the White House, or because they and the American public saw little need for boldness or innovation? It was an era, like the present one, when Government did not seem of major importance to the average citizen and much of politics was mere shadow-boxing.
Inevitably, of course, problems built up, unaddressed if not unidentified, notably the concentration of capital in the giant trusts and the victimization of labor. But when President Roosevelt -- it was he, remember, who first called the White House "a bully pulpit" -- decided to confront those problems, he found ample reservoirs of strength to do so in the Presidency.
Those like Senator Baker who look to this century and the example of Nixon see a political system tough and resilient enough to snap back quickly, even in a day of new media for whom little is sacred and even in a day when fewer and fewer moderates find their way to Capitol Hill.
The Presidency, it is true, recovered even more quickly than Nixon himself. Like Theodore Roosevelt, Ronald Reagan, who took office only six years after Nixon left it, found all the Presidential power he needed to impose lasting changes on American politics and Government, despite widespread earlier assertions that Nixon had all but destroyed the office.
But not even Presidents with policies as popular as Mr. Reagan's and Mr. Clinton's have been able to restore the reputation of the Federal Government among American voters. Fewer and fewer pay attention to what happens in Washington; fewer and fewer vote.
Just the other day, Curtis Gans, the leading student of the nation's voting patterns, reported that the turnout for last year's midterm elections had been the lowest in half a century.
Cynicism fuels that disturbing trend. Cynicism began growing in the United States during the Vietnam war; it increased during Watergate, and it may have reached a peak this year, with more than half the public telling pollsters, the President lied under oath, but leave him where he is.
The cynical subtext of that dichotomy, what most Americans see when they turn their eyes on Washington, is four words: "They all do it."
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); SPECIAL PROSECUTORS (INDEPENDENT COUNSEL); LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ETHICS (86%); ACQUITTAL (79%); LEGISLATION (74%); BOMBINGS (68%); COUPS (62%); PAINTING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; APPLE, R W JR; BAKER, HOWARD H JR; SCHLESINGER, ARTHUR M JR (PROF); JOHNSON, ANDREW (1808-1875); STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



287 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Battle-Tested Sharpton Slips Into Familiar Role

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Just before the evening news the other night, the parents of Amadou Diallo, the West African street vendor shot dead by plainclothes police officers last week, walked up to microphones to offer their first extended public remarks about the death of their son. The setting was a second-floor auditorium up a scuffed flight of steps in Harlem. And the host, wearing a crisp gray three-piece suit and clearly enjoying this latest bustle at his Harlem headquarters, was the Rev. Al Sharpton.
It was perhaps inevitable. In the 15 years since Mr. Sharpton took up the cause of one of the four black youths shot by Bernard Goetz, he has developed a network of supporters, an articulate public presence and a command of politics and media that few other figures in New York can rival. As was clear again yesterday, as Mr. Sharpton assumed a prominent role at Mr. Diallo's memorial service, that arsenal has established him as arguably more influential than any black leader in the city, including those who have been elected to public office. 
 Mr. Sharpton said in an interview that he has never imposed himself into any of the half-dozen racially charged police cases with which he has been identified since the Goetz shootings in 1984, including this one. "I would not have contacted them," Mr. Sharpton said. "I feel that is ambulance chasing. I am not an ambulance chaser: I am the ambulance. People call me."
There was no need for Mr. Sharpton to chase anyone, indeed. Other Guinean immigrants called Mr. Sharpton after Mr. Diallo was shot last week, just as other Haitian immigrants called him after allegations that Abner Louima was assaulted in a Brooklyn police precinct in 1997. There are no other black leaders who are quite as well known, or have proven themselves quite as resourceful, as Mr. Sharpton. That has never been as clear as this week, when a bereaved family from another continent turned to Mr. Sharpton for help in dealing with a tragedy in New York.
The Diallo shooting has illuminated Mr. Sharpton's strengths -- and some of his weaknesses -- in racially charged situations. In the nine days since Mr. Diallo died in the Bronx, in a barrage of 41 police bullets, Mr. Sharpton has been able to assemble large crowds, on short notice, for rallies. He has brought in a network of people, including fund-raisers and lawyers, to help the Diallo family. And once again, by design or not, he has become the face of the opposition to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, serving as the Diallos' guide to this alien terrain as they rejected offers of financial assistance from the Mayor.
In the process, Mr. Sharpton, who for many New Yorkers will always be remembered as the unquestioning advocate for Tawana Brawley, has opened himself to the suggestion that he has turned an unknowing family's plight to his political advantage, putting them at the center of what is, in effect, a tug of war between Mr. Sharpton and City Hall. But there has been little criticism of Mr. Sharpton on this count so far.
"He has a genius for this," said Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor whose relations with Mr. Sharpton have thawed somewhat since Mr. Koch left Gracie Mansion. "He has the respect of the black community. He can deliver a picket line of large numbers when he decides he wants to. He's very quotable. And he's very smart."
Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat and a senior black elected official in New York, said that Mr. Sharpton had captured the role of "providing safe cover for people who have been victimized."
By contrast, Mr. Rangel said, it was more complicated for established black leaders -- the Congressman offered himself and former Mayor David N. Dinkins as examples -- to fill the role. "You know it and I know it: We have not gained the credibility that Sharpton has in case after case," Mr. Rangel said. "Why should they go to a local politician, especially one who is out of office?"
There is clearly more than a little envy among officials who have run successfully for office -- Mr. Sharpton has been a candidate, but has never won -- over his success at establishing himself as such a visible leader in New York. That is all the more the case because Mr. Sharpton, as Mr. Koch noted yesterday, has been associated with some incidents that would probably be devastating for an elected official, most infamously, his defense of Tawana Brawley.
Mr. Rangel, while praising Mr. Sharpton, said that he had been helped by what the Congressman described as an absence of leadership by other religious figures in the city on the Diallo shooting; to some extent, Mr. Rangel said, Mr. Sharpton had stepped into a void. At the same time, though, Mr. Sharpton has managed this week to bridge a large swath of New York political real estate. He was able to go from having lunch with Mr. Koch to appearing at a news conference with Mr. Dinkins standing behind him.
What is more, Mr. Sharpton has managed, with a few dissents, to present himself as a leader of a group of New Yorkers that is more politically, economically and ethnically diverse than ever: from old-line black Democratic leaders in Harlem, to the new groups of immigrants that are now jockeying for a place on New York's landscape, to prominent black business leaders who had once shunned him.
"When someone calls me, I don't have to gear up," Mr. Sharpton said. "They know when they call me that I have a staff that deals with this every day. I can walk into a situation and in five minutes say that we'll provide financial help. I can get on the media, I can get counseling."
Mr. Sharpton has become something of a self-perpetuating political force. Salimatou Diallo, a home-care attendant whose 12-year-old son knew Mr. Diallo on the street (and who is not related to Mr. Diallo), urged Mr. Sharpton to intervene in the case because she had seen him on television. "I told him that somebody was killed and we need him to come uptown to help," she said.
Within a day of being alerted, Mr. Sharpton arranged a news conference to draw attention to the case.
Last Saturday, during his regular Saturday morning address to the National Action Network, the organization he founded in 1991, Mr. Sharpton announced plans to hold a rally in front of Mr. Diallo's home in the Bronx on Sunday. These Saturday addresses draw 300 people even on a quiet week, and are broadcast on the radio. And 1,000 people turned out, on short notice, for the Sunday demonstration, encouraging Mr. Sharpton to call for a rally the next day at Foley Square.
As soon as Mr. Diallo's mother arrived here, Mr. Sharpton enveloped her; on his advice, she declined Mr. Giuliani's offer for city money to cover her expenses for accommodation and travel. It was, at least in part, a gesture that immediately undercut Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Sharpton moved her to another hotel -- the Righa Royal in midtown, where he held his primary night celebration when he ran for mayor in 1997.
Finally, Mr. Sharpton introduced the Diallo family to one of the best-known lawyers in the country, Johnnie Cochran. "Reverend Sharpton," Mr. Cochran said yesterday, "is one of a kind."
For his part, Mr. Sharpton said he had patterned his career after that of the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson Jr. And that, he said, accounted for his success in New York. "Let's face it: If Secretary of Transportation Rodney Slater walked down 125th Street, people wouldn't know him," Mr. Sharpton said, referring to the black Arkansan President Clinton appointed to his Cabinet. "But everybody would know Jesse Jackson. I do in New York what Jesse Jackson does in the nation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Al Sharpton attended the memorial service for Amadou Diallo yesterday in Manhattan. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GUINEA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); GUINEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); RIOTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); FUNDRAISING (69%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DIALLO, AMADOU; SHARPTON, AL (REV); BOSS, KENNETH (POLICE OFFICER); CARROLL, SEAN (POLICE OFFICER); MCMELLON, EDWARD (POLICE OFFICER); MURPHY, RICHARD (POLICE OFFICER) AL SHARPTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



288 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Man Charged in Killings Of Two Outside Tavern

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY

 BODY:
An unemployed Freeport man who told a tavern full of drinkers that two men had just been shot outside was charged yesterday with the men's murders, the police said.
The man, John Pierotti, 44, was arrested on Thursday a few blocks from his home and a mile from the scene of the Dec. 23 shootings, outside the Dragger Inn in Baldwin. Witnesses had reported seeing him talking to the victims shortly before they were shot, said Detective Lieutenant Frank Guidice, commander of the Nassau County homicide squad. 
 According to the police, the victims, Gerard Kennedy Jr., 36, and Willis Frost, 41, both carpenters who lived in Baldwin, had left the bar at around 1 A.M. and were sitting in a van when Mr. Pierotti knocked on the driver's-side window. The two men had seen Mr. Pierotti before: he came to the bar from time to time to sell used tools and other items he had found while picking through garbage, Lieutenant Guidice said.
An argument between Mr. Pierotti and Mr. Frost led to a fight, Lieutenant Guidice said, which ended when Mr. Pierotti shot him once in the chest. Mr. Kennedy, a volunteer firefighter in Freeport, tried to run but was shot once in the head, he said.
He said that Mr. Pierotti then went inside the bar and to announce that two men were dead outside, and the police were called. But Mr. Pierotti quickly drew suspicion, Lieutenant Guidice said. Told by officers that his car, which was parked across the street from the van of the two dead men, had to be studied for evidence, he abruptly left. A murder weapon has not yet been recovered. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALDWIN (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (78%); WITNESSES (77%); ARRESTS (73%); 

PERSON: PIEROTTI, JOHN; KENNEDY, GERARD JR; FROST, WILLIS JOHN PIEROTTI (94%); FRANK GUIDICE (90%); WILLIS FROST (67%); GERARD KENNEDY JR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



289 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 2;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Finding Your Manners;
A Lost Generation of Executives Needs Help at the Business Table

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Judith Re joined her guests at the round banquet table, delicately placed her napkin on her lap, and began telling horror stories. There was the executive who routinely took her shoes off under the table, then lost one. The man who sneezed directly over the soup course. The woman who wiped her mouth with a piece of pita bread and then ate it. (Economical, perhaps, but not socially savvy.)
While her anecdotes did not exactly strike fear into her guests, they did remind the 11 men and women why they paid $275 apiece to attend her business etiquette class at the Ritz-Carlton on a recent evening. 
"Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about breaking bread with your clients," said Ms. Re, an etiquette consultant who has cured many corporate executives of bad table manners. "We're talking about turning that restaurant into your board room."
Ms. Re, who has taught manners to children at the Ritz-Carlton for 12 years, began the one-night executive etiquette classes this year to help the increasing number of adults who come to her with questions about business meal propriety.
"The economy has become very full, and because of that, the people are doing a lot more entertaining," she said. "People want to sharpen their entertaining skills. What's happening is, people know everything there is to know about their business. That's what they've done well; they've learned their skills, and they're great at it. Now they want to master this. They want to make sure they're putting their best foot forward."
"In the 80's, people didn't have the same kind of feeling," she said. "They'd say: 'You must be crazy, Judith. We just have money and that's all that counts.' "
It pays to have the gift of manners these days. Corporations are seeking out consultants in savoir-faire to train their employees. Etiquette schools that once catered only to children and diplomats have started offering courses with such titles as "Business Etiquette for the New Millennium." One five-year-old consultant group in California, called the Workshoppe, finds a wealth of clients in the socially awkward executives of Silicon Valley.
M.B.A. candidates at Daniels College of Business at the University of Denver are required to attend an etiquette dinner, while the Massachusetts Institute of Technology runs a not-for-credit charm school each January. Ms. Re, who learned her manners at her parents' dinner table, says graduate students whose parents came of age in the 1970's had things other than p's and q's to mind, like the Vietnam War and the sexual revolution.
Modern times demand new rules, too. As Ms. Re's class supped on olive-crusted sea bass and filet of beef with caramelized shallots, the director provided lessons in pager protocol, cell phone etiquette and avoiding liability.
Paul Sullivan, a investment company director, said he took clients out to dine three or four times a week but still has shortcomings at the table.
"I still get confused about whether my salad fork is the one to the left or the right," he said as he practiced setting a table in a class exercise.
Anne-Marie Maguire, who works at Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm, managed to prop her serviette into an M-shape, proclaimed it "good enough," and marched off to the soup course.
Ms. Re started her instructions with the basics. A Madeira consomme with truffle shavings is eaten by swiping the spoon from the 6 o'clock position to 12 o'clock. ("Seven to 1, that doesn't work?" Mr. Sullivan joked.) No blowing or slurping, please.
What to do when a dessert fork hits the floor? Or a glob of black tapanade plunks onto the white table linen? Mercifully, much of the success of the meal rests on the white-gloved servers, who quickly retrieve and replace the fallen fork and immediately swipe clean the mess with a sterling table scraper.
All pretty standard, right? Even those who think themselves well mannered were taken aback when the teacher advised against ordering alcohol at a business lunch.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry," she said. "You don't drink wine on someone else's clock."
If a client has a questionable amount to drink, she said, "Please make sure that when the server is right next to you, turn to that person and ask, 'Would you like me to get you a cab?' " In acknowledgment, the word "liability" was murmured around the table.
(This being a dinner, and the Ritz being the Ritz, wine is served with each course.)
As the intermezzo of cassis sorbet was served, Ms. Re reminded her students to turn their beepers to silent at a meal and excuse themselves if they must return a page. Cell phones should be left behind, she said. If the client decides to take a call during the meal, she suggested continuing to eat, but more slowly. If the call continues for 10 minutes, "then you know you're in trouble," she said. "You've lost them."
"Do you eavesdrop?" she asked devilishly. "Of course."
Ms. Re's adult students can be even more nervous than her preteen pupils, timidly asking things such as whether it is all right to eat the entire spear of asparagus, or just the tip. (Ms. Re loves the whole thing.) But by the time they sipped the dessert wine (the fourth of the evening) the students had begun to rattle off questions. Is it allowable to switch between the American style of eating and the European style?
"I still feel like I'm eating upside down," Ms. Maguire said, as Ms. Re showed her how to use the knife to "escort" some garlic potatoes onto the back of her fork. Either style is acceptable, but no switching back and forth.
Are there certain foods that should not be ordered at a business lunch?
"I wouldn't order the 12-ounce burger with the au jus dripping off it," Ms. Re said. Linguine with clam sauce is her own nemesis.
Tonight's dessert, peach a la Ritz, was a challenge all its own: a mousse garnished with a foot-high triangle of chocolate lace. Rather than risk toppling the tower off the plate, most guests ate around theirs.
Although corporate attire had been requested, Ms. Re, dressed in a long-sleeved, toe-length black dress accented with a gold pin, was not out of place.
"I set the rules," she said when asked where she finds her etiquette knowledge. "I also listen to the pulse, everything from riding the metro trains to when you're traveling on an airplane. You're very visual, and you ask people questions, and that's what I do." She does not do color analysis or grin-and-greet classes, and no, she does not read Ann Landers.
A successful business lunch, she said, is all about making the client feel taken care of. If a client suggests a particular restaurant, go there in advance to choose the best table for conducting business. You can present your credit card to the maitre d' in advance, to save any confusion about who gets the bill later. Choose a seat that allows you to keep eye contact with the server, but gives the client the best view. If the guest has a coat or valet ticket, ask for it and pay the tip. Don't discuss business as soon as you sit down, but let the conversation flow naturally.
Many people say the time of the power lunch is past, that people are too busy to have lunch outside the office. For Mr. Sullivan, the business meal is a way to break through the "wall of technology."
"If it's just voice mail and just phones and our product is a little better than their product," then there's little to set the company apart, he said. "But if I can make that personal contact. . . ."
Ms. Re added: "Out technology is growing at such a fast pace that I don't think people have time to think. And I don't blame the people. I blame the technology."
"There's just got to be a choice about what you bring over into the millennium," she said. In fact, she mused, the Internet could be a good way to spread the gospel of etiquette.
For now, she sends each student off with a booklet of her rules. In it, she reminds them not to use long words when short ones willdo, and if they do not know how to pronounce the name of a wine, it is fine to order it by its number on the menu.
"The only way in which you can overdo it, ladies and gentlemen," she said, "is when you're pretending you're something you're not."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Saturday about etiquette lessons for executives misidentified two people setting a table at a class at the Ritz-Carlton in Boston. They were Paul Sullivan and Susan Allen; Edmund Cibas and Bea Flammia were also attending the class, but not shown.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Judith Re, above, demonstrates the proper way to use a napkin at the Ritz-Carlton in Boston, and Bea Flamia shows Edmund Cibas the correct way to place cutlery during a table-setting demonstration. (Photographs by Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (92%); CHILDREN (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999



290 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Raking Muck

BYLINE: By Ellen Carol DuBois; Ellen Carol DuBois's most recent books are "Harriot Stanton Blatch and the Winning of Woman Suffrage" and "Woman Suffrage, Women's Rights."

 BODY:

TO KEEP THE WATERS TROUBLED
The Life of Ida B. Wells.
By Linda O. McMurry.
Illustrated. 400 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $30. 
 L inda O. McMurry's important new biography, "To Keep the Waters Troubled," tells the story of an extraordinary American who would have been at the very summit of our national pantheon except for two things: her sex and her race. But then again, being born into a society that promised individual freedom and personal power, just not to blacks, not to women and above all not to black women, was the source of Ida B. Wells's remarkable story.
Born in a Mississippi town just before emancipation, Wells (1862-1931) knew intimately the explosive combination of promise and disappointment that constituted freedom for African-Americans. Her hopes for lifting herself by education were cut short by a yellow fever epidemic that killed both her parents. Fearful that new, coercive state apprenticeship laws would take away her younger siblings, she committed herself instead to keeping her family together, facing not only the obstacles of an increasingly repressive white society but, even more, of heading a household without a man's protection.
Things only got worse when she moved to Memphis in 1881. In one of many fine localized accounts of post-bellum African-American life, McMurry, a biographer of George Washington Carver, describes this boomtown of the New South, where freedmen and immigrants fought over economic resources and political power. There, Wells became a journalist, one who was blessed (or cursed) with an extraordinary "ability to articulate outrage" against racial injustice. Praised as the "Princess of the Press," she was also ridiculed by rival black male journalists for "trying to be pretty as well as smart."
Wells vaulted to national prominence by daring to confront the issue of lynching. In 1892, a white mob dragged Tom Moss, a friend and black shop owner, out of the city jail, where he was being held following a shootout, and murdered him. Lynchings were on the rise in the South, and Wells became determined to protest them. In a newspaper that she co-owned, she published a series investigating and documenting the Southern lynching epidemic.
But her boldness went farther. She exposed as false the most common justification for these lynchings: that they were necessitated by sexual "outrages" committed by black men against white women. Perhaps only a woman could have spoken out effectively against these charges, but doing so exposed Wells to attacks against her sexual character. Her willingness to talk openly about rape and interracial sex kept her from succeeding the aging Frederick Douglass as "leader of the Afro-American race," the most respected Negro in the United States among whites. This role went instead to a man and a nonmilitant, Booker T. Washington.
In 1893 Wells fled the South, never to return, and relocated in Chicago, where for the first time in her life she turned to other black women for allies. Wells organized African-American women in Chicago to demand the vote and, once won, to use it effectively. Still, political differences and personality clashes combined to embitter her about what she regarded as the failure of other black leaders, female as well as male, to stand by her.
The one exception was Ferdinand Barnett, a man of similar militancy and complementary temperament, whom she married in 1895. Here, too, Wells broke new ground by maintaining a high level of public activity while raising six children. Her youngest daughter, Alfreda Barnett Duster, repaid her mother's dedication by striving for 40 years to get Wells's unpublished autobiography, on which McMurry draws heavily, into print.
This is a fine biography, one that will reward even those readers who already know something about Wells's accomplishments. McMurry does not condescend to her subject by ignoring her flaws or romanticizing her life. Instead, by evoking the complex humanity underlying an extraordinary record of public achievement, she does genuine honor to Wells. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TO KEEP THE WATERS TROUBLED: THE LIFE OF IDA B WELLS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (89%); FAMILY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); WOMEN (76%); MURDER (73%); MEN (72%); EPIDEMICS (68%); 

PERSON: DUBOIS, ELLEN CAROL; MCMURRY, LINDA O; WELLS, IDA B (1862-1931) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



291 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Inventing History

BYLINE: By Paul Mattick; Paul Mattick, the author of "Social Knowledge," is finishing books on political economy and modern art.

 BODY:

THE ESSENTIAL
GORE VIDAL
Edited by Fred Kaplan.
988 pp. New York:
Random House. $39.95. 
 Gore Vidal hasn't just written a lot, and he doesn't just write very well. His character and his thinking are complex, even contradictory, in ways that keep 30-year-old texts as fresh as his latest writing -- sometimes fresher. He's a living dialectical synthesis: a populist patrician; a ruthless critic of politics who ran for public office; a patriot who is an expatriate; a mocker of pop culture who spends a lot of time in Hollywood; a ferociously educated person who scorns academics; a gay man who refuses not only identification as "a homosexual" but the validity of the category; a paragon of post-modernity dedicated to the power of the "master narrative" of national history; a writer determinedly of our time with a bibliography that is 19th-century in its varied magnitude.
Fred Kaplan, the author of books on Carlyle, Dickens and Henry James, must accordingly be congratulated for the job he has done in distilling Vidal's writing for "The Essential Gore Vidal." He has dealt adroitly with the six novels chronicling American political history from the Revolution to the end of World War II; allotting the most space to the national turning points covered in "Burr" and "Lincoln," he includes just enough of all six to give both the flavor of each and a sense of the character-centered narrative that connects them. His care appears again in the choice of essays: a book review or a personal meditation suddenly reveals the source of a scene in a novel or another take on one of its central themes.
For example, in "Myra Breckinridge," a 1968 camp classic following a film-buff transsexual's conquest of Hollywood and the only novel included in full, the eponymous heroine states her mission as "the destruction of the last vestigial traces of traditional manhood in the race in order to realign the sexes, thus reducing population while increasing human happiness and preparing humanity for its next stage." Three years later, Vidal concludes an essay defending women's liberation by explaining that the "new restiveness" of the 70's reflects a "new desire to exist not as male or female but as human. It is very simple: we are breeding ourselves into extinction." As often with him, Vidal's idea is less convincing in the essay than in the novel, where it's a facet of a literary character's lunatic genius. Asserted without evidence or argument, it reads as the doctrine of a crank. Furthermore, as Vidal himself observes, population control doesn't seem to be what's actually on women's minds (or on those of the gay men and women whom, in a related essay, he sees as serving the same end). But Vidal is rather ready to be the voice of the historical necessity shaping insufficiently aware ends, a sort of homespun Hegel. A man free to judge the comparative worth of Socrates, Buddha and Confucius (the subjects of his novel "Creation") will not hesitate before explaining the true significance of feminism. On the other hand, a writer so devoted to combating the pretensions of the great monotheistic religions knows very well what the compulsion to spread The Truth can lead to: he has made Myra both mad and the carrier of his doctrine.
Admitting the risk inherent in his literary ambition, Vidal so identifies his maniacal heroine with himself as to have her express his views on the possibilities of contemporary fiction. "The novel being dead," she writes, "there is no point to writing made-up stories. Look at the French who will not and the Americans who cannot. Look at me who ought not. . . . Nevertheless, I intend to create a literary masterpiece in much the same way that I created myself, and for much the same reason: because it is not there." One need not read Vidal's 1967 critique of French theories of the nouveau roman -- though it's well worth doing so -- to see in this an announcement of his mature method.
Masterpieces are "not there" today because our moment is "post-Gutenberg and pre-Apocalypse," Myra says: the society that produced the novel as its pre-eminent literary form has led with its generalized corruption and mechanized inhumanity to the obsolescence of literature, whose place is taken by the movies and their idiot-box offspring. Yet Myra, who dedicates her life to the realization of the mythical archetypes of humanity in the films of the 30's and 40's, is a compulsive writer. So is Vidal; but his stories too are not made up -- that is, they are based on history, that of the classical world (as in "Julian" and "Creation") or of the United States.
It's different with the novels Vidal calls "inventions," like "Myra Breckinridge," the apocalyptic vision "Kalki" and the tour de force entitled "Duluth," set in a city located between the Great Lakes and the Mexican border, its motto proclaimed in neon on its tallest building: "Love it or loathe it, you can never leave it or lose it." A deadly serious and hilarious spoof of both American life and post-structuralist criticism, "Duluth" moves between the relative reality of the main story and novels and television shows within it, following the principle that "when a fictive character dies or drops out of a narrative, he will then -- promptly -- reappear in a new narrative, as there are just so many characters -- and plots -- available at any given time." In his essay on the nouveau roman, Vidal the semiotician explains that "by their nature, words are imprecise and layered with meanings -- the signs of things, not the things themselves." As such, they provide a bridge between different orders of reality, like the fiction-littered relationships in Duluth's boudoirs and the passionate novels, set in "Regency Hyatt England," by Duluth's leading romance writer. An even wider stretch is bridged in "Live From Golgotha," in which the memoirs of St. Timothy, St. Paul's boyfriend, are disrupted by the late-20th-century schemes of Japanese and American video corporations to televise the crucifixion of Jesus.
The inventions belong to the post-Gutenberg present; the historical novels preserve narrative ideals of the past. Vidal's ambition has been to trace the development of the United States from republic to empire, as a revolution and civil war fought in the name of freedom created a Federal power that as servant of the business class produced a globe-straddling system "in which men of property can do well and the others are on their own." Vidal brings out the tragic aspect of this tale most vividly in his moving depiction of the Civil War's political and human costs. But he insists as well upon a comic aspect, most sharply in following the self-seeking machinations that are the stuff of national politics; along the way, his chronicle traces the merger of politics and mass media. Hearst already "showed us how to invent news"; the movies "get into people's dreams." The Union Lincoln saved has turned itself into Myra Breckinridge's hall of mirrors.
For all the sympathy for the ruled classes evoked by the title of an early essay collection, "Homage to Daniel Shays," Vidal keeps his focus on the rulers of our world. Commenting on Suetonius' "Twelve Caesars," he insists on "the role of the individual in history," and the individuals he has in mind are those who can exert their will on societies. Grandson of a senator, stepkin to Jackie Kennedy, Vidal the populist and hater of empire is also capable of suggesting, in a 1986 essay, that the United States and the Soviet Union should ally to survive economically in the face of "the Sino-Japanese axis." The crackpot economics is less striking than the identification with America as political and economic entity.
Perhaps the best key to Vidal's productive contradictions is his portrait, in "Julian," of the fourth-century Roman Emperor, nephew of Constantine, who rejected Christianity to return to the old gods and defended the empire against its barbarian enemies while promoting personal liberty and public morality. Was something along these lines, mutatis mutandis, what Vidal had in mind when he left his literary plow, however briefly, to run for Congress in 1960 and for the Senate in 1982? These attempts were failures, as they had to be for a candidate who was on record as a vigorous critic of Christianity, who had called for unity between gay people and Jews as persecuted minority groups, and who ran -- in California -- against the military budget and for increased social services. This was probably lucky for Vidal, who would have strutted the Congressional boards, exploiting the camp aspects of American politics, at the cost of endless frustration or distasteful compromise. It was certainly lucky for us, as it left him free to sit in his Italian homes writing the stories and essays -- amusing, moving, provoking, always worth reading -- that Fred Kaplan has made it easy to look at and think about again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gore Vidal, probably in 1960, when he ran for Congress in upstate New York. (SY Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ESSENTIAL GORE VIDAL, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (88%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: MATTICK, PAUL; KAPLAN, FRED; VIDAL, GORE EUGENE LUTHER 'GORE' VIDAL (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



292 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4792 words

HEADLINE: The Disciples of Discipline

BYLINE: By Susan Bolotin
<BLB>A tough-parenting movement is telling permissive baby boomers they've been doing it all wrong, and John Rosemond is the pro-punishment Spock.; Susan Bolotin is a writer who lives in New York.

 BODY:
We all know them, if only by caricature. The parents who devote hours each night to the ritual of their children's bedtimes. The children with roomfuls of toys who complain of nothing to do. The parents whose phone conversations are really interruptions interrupted by conversation. The children who won't do their homework unless their parents are nearby. The parents who intervene on their children's behalf whenever a teacher delivers a bad grade, a rebuke, a punishment. The children so incapable of dealing with frustration they explode in rage whenever something goes any way other than theirs. The parents who acknowledge their children's fury; "I see you're angry," they say, until they, too, become so frustrated they cannot reprimand except by screaming. The children who think of no one but themselves. The parents who think of no one but their children.
 These are the parents, and these are the children, whom John Rosemond would expunge from the national fabric. Among an ever-growing group of usually conservative, often Christian givers of authoritarian child-rearing advice, he is the expert of the moment, largely because of a recent public dispute with T. Berry Brazelton over the timing of toilet training. But Middle America saw his day coming long before the potty wars hit the papers. Twenty years ago, Rosemond ("Train them by 2!") was a family therapist in Gastonia, N.C., with an occasional article in the local paper. Today, his weekly column appears in about 150 newspapers. His practice boarded up, the 51-year-old Rosemond wanders the country eight months of the year, the Johnny Appleseed of discipline, putting on nearly 250 shows annually. He publishes a bimonthly magazine, Affirmative Parenting. He operates a Web site. And his eight books, which have sold a total of more than a million copies, have experienced a 30 percent increase in sales over each of the last two years. There's more in the works: an infomercial to market a "take it home" effective-discipline kit; a series of nine hourlong programs being developed for possible placement on PBS; a series of "news" segments to be marketed to television stations. In the fall of '99 you'll even be able to take a cruise with John Rosemond. And when you return home, if he has done his job, you will, in his words, "fling open the door and say, 'Hey, kids, things will never be the same!' " 
It wasn't a cruise, but they came mostly two by two, as hopeful of salvation as the animals to Noah -- young married couples, women walking with the shared gait of friends. They came by the hundreds, across the lawn, down the sidewalks, heels clicking against the pavement, not talking much, up the steps to Wichita's Century II Convention Center. They came with the purposefulness of disciples, ready to receive the wisdom being handed out that day. And they were not disappointed. Though John Rosemond's posture is stooped -- think John Lithgow on a bad-back day -- his manner is straightforward, unambivalent. Part of that authority must come from familiarity with his material. Not only does he repeat three basic talks hundreds of times a year, but he also uses the same anecdotes in his shows that he uses in book after book. ("People don't notice," Donna Martin, his former book editor at Andrews McMeel, tells me later.)
"Are you the kind of parents who tell your kids to pick up their toys and then leave the room?" Rosemond asked. "Or are you the sort who wants to have a warm and fuzzy relationship going with the kid?" His disdain turned to parodic soprano: "I know, let's make a game of picking up the toys. The person who gets the most will get a bowl of ice cream after supper.' "
 Rosemond moved on. "If you punish your child," he advised, "he will hate you. He won't talk to you for three days." Beat. "It's a blessing. Take a vacation."
 The crowd laughed and clapped. They felt "empowered" -- a word I heard to this side of nausea -- by Rosemond. He may have been telling them they were jerks, but he was also telling them that they could change.
 They could realize that rearing kids is "a no-brainer." They could learn to ignore the "mental-health professionals who have convinced us, with the assistance of the media, that we were all raised in pathological, dysfunctional families." They could forget everything they've ever heard about building self-esteem in children. They could see their children as "direct descendants of Adam and Eve" and, as such, "inclined to mischief." They could start confronting their children every time they misbehaved, and then they could punish them. They could put their marriage at the center of the family. They could stop worrying about their relationships with their children and accept the challenge of leadership. They could make their children happy by making them well behaved.
 John Rosemond has not always thought such thoughts; indeed, the story of his transformation is proof that there really is no conservative like an ex-drug-taking, rock-and-roll-playing liberal. This is how he tells it: His parents divorced when he was 3; when he was 7, his mother remarried, to an older man who moved the family from Charleston, S.C., to Chicago. The marriage was marked by violence, first verbal, then physical. ("I wasn't traumatized by it, just scared to death.") His stepfather believed all emotions should be kept under wraps. ("When I cried over something, it was 'I'll give you something to cry about,' even if I was crying because I got beat up by the neighborhood bully.") When Rosemond was 15, he went to live in Georgia with his father, a golf pro, who gave him his own apartment. ("This was not good for me.") He finished his high-school years in Chicago. ("My mother moved into her own room with a bolt lock and her own refrigerator.") He then went to Western Illinois University, where he eventually received his master's degree in psychology.
 While there, he played in a rock band. He did a lot of drugs. He sported red hair down to his shoulders and a fatigue jacket with a flag sewn upside-down on the back. But after he was married -- he was 20; his bride, Willie Herman, was 19 -- it was time to get a job, at a community-health center in the mountains of North Carolina.
 Their son, Eric, was born in 1969. At first, John and Willie followed the advice of the "nouveau parenting experts" they despise these days. But their son's rambunctiousness and Willie's second pregnancy (Amy, their second child, is now 26) combined to make them reconsider. "Eric's behaviors were going to destroy our relationship," Willie recalls. The Rosemonds came to understand that Eric needed discipline of the old-fashioned kind, and the conversion began. ("This is Eric," Rosemond says, introducing me to his son. "His career," Eric adds, laughing.)
 As Rosemond's attitudes toward child rearing solidified, his politics turned toward the right. These days he cannot abide no-fault divorce; homosexual parenting; Selma Fraiberg's "The Magic Years"; sex-education programs; Thomas Gordon's Parent Effectiveness Training program; homework planners ("a source of codependency" between the overinvolved parent and the irresponsible child); single parenthood by choice; the inclusion of spanking in definitions of child abuse; TV; and Hillary Clinton and Marian Wright Edelman ("ultraliberals, leftists, socialists").
The Rosemonds' home in Gastonia is Country Living perfect -- sampler pillows, stenciled walls, racks and racks of pipes, George Washington hanging over the fireplace. But when Eric and his wife, Nancy, walk in with their two little boys, ready for a lovefest with Grandpa, it takes on the aura of a stage set. The afternoon feels rehearsed, and everyone in the cast -- including me -- knows his or her part. Eric ("I don't read the books, I don't read the articles") is there to scoff at Dad. "So, do you think he seems harsh, like not a fun person?" he asks me right off, laughing. "Well, I tell people he can dole out punishment with a smile on his face." Nancy casually but firmly minds the children, while Willie soothes any queasiness Rosemond's beliefs about women might engender. Rosemond is the well-rehearsed pro.
 Here he is, in nutshell version.
 * Parents should stop worrying about developing self-esteem in their children. If held accountable for their behavior and allowed to experience hardship and frustration, children will develop self-esteem on their own. Mothers, in particular, he says, are guilty of rushing in the minute the child begins feeling unhappy or distressed. "If there are two words that underlie self-esteem," Rosemond says, "they are 'I can.' Well, I was in a school recently. I walked into the boys' bathroom. Above the mirror, there was this sign that said, 'You are now looking at the most special person in the whole world.' This isn't self-esteem. This is narcissism. Today's child justifies anything. Bill Clinton is a prime example. He grew up with a single mother who told him his excrement didn't stink."
 * Spanking is fine, if done swiftly, occasionally, privately, in anger but not in rage, with the hand, on the rear.
 * Attention Deficit Disorder is not genetic -- as much as parents (who don't want to think it's their fault) and professionals (who want to continue treatment forever) want it to be. "Every 2-year-old has A.D.D., because the left temporal lobe is not sufficiently developed," Rosemond claims. Parents who pay attention to their children's proper brain development -- by shielding them from electronic media, making them focus on adult authority figures and expecting them to finish tasks -- cause this innate A.D.D. to disappear.
 * Toilet training should occur by the age of 2; otherwise, a child will become a spoiled brat. Here's how it's done, on the now-famous three-to-five-day plan: "You take their clothes off. You put the potty where they can see it. When they have an accident they scream, because they hate it running down their legs. Every time you hear them screaming you put them on the potty." Carpet cleaning is the final step.
 * Chores are essential. By their teens, children should be doing all kitchen cleanup, most of the housework and the lion's share of the laundry.
 * All disobedience, no matter how small the infraction and even if followed by an apology, must be punished. The punishment should be unpleasant, memorable and inflicted at a time that is convenient for the parent.
Rosemond talks like this until dusk, indefatigable, cool, even when I ask if it might be easier to get his point of view across if he separated it from his religion ("nondenominational Jewish-Christian," by his description) and his politics: "People need to understand that conservatives did not politicize parenting in America, that the people who did are people like Hillary Clinton and Marian Wright Edelman."
 I didn't know then that Rosemond has his eye on a possible run for the House of Representatives, but the information wouldn't have mattered; my role in our stage play does not include a debate about who politicized the family, how Hillary Clinton and Marian Wright Edelman came to be linked at the hip or why he's polarizing the debate. But the lighting is perfect -- dim, shadowy -- for a third-act confession: I tell Rosemond I'm a liberal, a feminist, a Jew. Child-rearing advice that evokes the Bible, even the Pentateuch, makes me uncomfortable.
"I've heard this before, almost always from Jews," Rosemond says, a crescendo in his voice. "My mother married a Jewish man, Julius Goldberg," he explains, "and they imposed their religion on me -- you know, Baruch ata, Adonai Eloheinu, melech haolam, borei peri hagafen. I could do it by rote in my sleep." To hear the blessing over the wine come at me out of the North Carolina darkness throws me. And it throws Rosemond, too. "I wore the yarmulke every Friday night," he contends, as if I am going to dispute his memory. "I respect all those traditions, but it's a little bit mystifying to me how people have these knee-jerk reactions."
 He's right. It is very easy to respond reflexively to someone still angry at his parents' religion; to someone who tells people to ignore the advice of experts while marketing himself as one, albeit of the aw-shucks variety; to someone who extols the virtues of the 50's family while admitting he was reared "in a bizarre family environment" -- the latest chapter of which is a rift with his mother so deep they haven't spoken in 10 years.
 It is also very easy to find other people willing to take on Rosemond. According to the executive director of the North Carolina Psychology Board, Martha N. Storie, the board investigated a complaint brought against Rosemond in November 1987; after an informal hearing early the next year, a reprimand was issued. In September 1995, after the board received another complaint, Rosemond voluntarily entered into a consent order, which stipulated that a state supervisor review his columns prior to publication. (Rosemond, who first told me of these incidents, says the first complaint referred to a column in which he said there was no evidence that putting a very young child into therapy was efficient either in time or money; the second complaint was a response to his advice to the family of an 18-month-old who had been sexually abused. He told them to forgo therapy for her, since she would never remember the incident anyway. His descriptions of the columns, which he stands by to this day, are generally accurate. They have been excised from the archives on his Web site.) Much more recently, Grace Reef, director of intergovernmental relations for the Children's Defense Fund, told me that Marian Wright Edelman has never worked on any legislation to make spanking illegal, as Rosemond claims, and that the C.D.F. knows nothing about any program that would mandate a visit to every new mother to assess her ability to mother, as Rosemond inveighs against. I'm sure I also could have found sociologists more than willing to label his thinking on women sexist. ("Women don't want men to be more involved, they just want them to be more at their beck and call.") But it seemed too easy.
 Besides, writing Rosemond off might suggest I don't recognize anything of my family in the ones he criticizes. I do, and have to admit that my husband and I have recently made subtle Rosemond-inspired shifts in our child rearing. Now when we say, "This is our car, and we are listening to 'All Things Considered' " -- that ultimate line in the sand -- we mean it. Our kids, age 10 and 13, look at each other, roll their eyes and mutter, "Brainwashed in Kansas."
 The people who adhere to Rosemond's philosophy would laugh at that -- for more than the obvious reason of our general wussiness. Their families had once been out of control, their children more headache than pleasure, but that's history. As Amanda Riley, a mother of two from Danbury, Conn., tells me, hearing Rosemond speak three years ago "rocked" her world, though the change in parenting style was not easy at first. "My daughter did not get that there were consequences for bad behavior," Riley recalls. "Since then, I haven't tried anything from Rosemond that hasn't worked. He's kind of like a religion to me. What he says is gospel."
 Juli Thompson, a mother of four from Kingston, N.H., is completely hooked on Rosemond -- "he turned me into a Republican" -- and visits his online chat room throughout the day. She, too, jokes that "Parent Power" is her bible and that she is a John Rosemond disciple.
 Riley and Thompson, like the other Rosemond fans I spoke to, were almost frantically gung-ho. But I don't want to discount their testimony any more than I want to discount Rosemond's. I know too many parents whose desperation is overwhelming, who have been so influenced by the "liberal" side of the debate that they now need permission to get tough. Indeed, I got the sense in Wichita that much of the audience had come hoping that Rosemond would make them feel O.K. about making their kids feel bad. Anna Kelley, a mother of three, certainly had. Just contemplating changes for her middle child, a 12-year-old boy with learning disabilities and A.D.D., filled her with hope, but when I called a few weeks later to ask how things were going, uncertainty had crept into her voice.
"If A.D.D.'s not genetic, how can two kids you raise the same way turn out so differently?" she asks. "Don't tell me TV is to blame. Still, we are getting all the TV's out of the house. Another thing we're going to do is to throw responsibility for homework back on him. He can repeat the grade, but something has to change."
 It sounded good, but not quite as if it was going to happen. "My husband, he's a nice person," Kelley finally says. "He wants to explain things. It's not that he doesn't want to do this. He can't. Is this something everyone can do? I think it takes someone like Rosemond. Confident. I could never be confident like that."
One of the items Rosemond hawks at his shows is a T-shirt with the slogan "Because I Said So," and an unquestioned, completely confident and predominantly male authority is central to his teachings. But that is where he and a large portion of parents, educators and psychologists part company.
"Generation by generation, there has been a tendency in the United States for parents to wear their authority in less authoritative ways," E. Anthony Rotundo, a historian at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and the author of "American Manhood: Trasformations in Masculinity from the Revolution to the Modern Era," tells me. In the 1700's the father was the boss, with children occupying the bottom rung of the family hierarchy -- an economic position cemented by their being born tainted by the sin of Adam. But by the 19th century, children had come to be seen as innocent, and women as morally pure. That model has endured until recently, when, as Rosemond would explain it, the secularization of America wreaked such havoc that the more skeptical assumption about human nature has regained some footing. Even so, the more liberal model drives Rosemond nuts. He abhors it -- as the root of misplaced parental guilt (he claims parents think, If a child misbehaves, he's probably acting out some family dysfunction) and, much more essential for him, of what he calls "the whole self-esteem movement."
 Diane Ruble, a professor of psychology at New York University who studies self-esteem and development, can't figure out exactly what Rosemond means by a "self-esteem movement." But she suspects she knows his targets: people who focus on self-esteem as a goal rather than as a by-product of competent behavior. And she and many other people working in the field would now agree that self-esteem enthusiasts went too far when they suggested that children should be made to feel good no matter their effort or motivation. "If you bask in feeling good," Ruble says, "you never accomplish anything." Children should take pride in their accomplishments, not in the mere fact of their own existence.
 Isn't that simple common sense? Well, John Rosemond is a die-hard champion of common sense, often asserting that all parenting advice can be broken down into a series of aphorisms. "I'm going to give you enough rope to hang yourself." "You paddle your own canoe." "You can't get something for nothing."
 But what, I wonder, about that other maxim: "Don't hold a grudge"?
 And that's what troubles me most about Rosemond. I respond to some of what he says, but not to how he says it. "Gotcha!" he seems to bellow, delighting in every punishment doled out. And while research has shown that children turn out best in families in which parental demands are enforced, that is true only if the punishment is not punitive; loosey-goosey parenting may not work, but neither does "seeing and not hearing" children. Besides, where does the fun in rearing children get factored in? Where is the acknowledgment that complexity is not necessarily bad? Where is the intellectual adventure that comes from helping kids learn to discriminate between legitimate and bogus authority?
 My time with Rosemond has helped me develop a theory. I call it, in homage to the sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild's "second shift" (the work a woman does after returning home from her paid job), "the third shift." But unlike Hochschild's work of scholarship, my theory is based on that grand journalistic standard: myself and a couple of friends.
 Somewhere along the line, my female friends and I took on, unasked, a "third shift" -- the job of family-happiness manager, juggling not only lessons and games and school events and nights out with adult friends, but everyone's emotional well-being, articulated or not. This is a thankless and exhausting task, particularly if it includes eradicating frustration and boredom from children's lives while simultaneously making sure they feel good about themselves. I accepted this work, without thinking much about its consequences, until I met Rosemond. And then it came to me like a nightmare. He might worry I was turning my children into the Bill Clintons of tomorrow. But I had another concern: what if I was rearing them to be Monica Lewinskys -- young adults who don't want jobs where hard work is expected, who turn petulant when they don't get what they want, even when what they're looking for is their own happiness.
 That realization -- that your kids can't grow up unless you let them do it for themselves -- is what I'll take away from this Rosemondian adventure. Or, as the man says, "You can't get something for nothing."
Emily Goldberg, a retired plant biologist, widowed last summer at 74, is as delighted as any proud mother to talk about her successful son. "He was a very nice little boy," she remembers. "Outgoing, accepting, very bright." But didn't he misbehave horribly? I ask, hoping she'll elaborate on some of Rosemond's own stories of his childhood. Didn't you and your husband tell him he would repeat the seventh grade if he got in trouble even one more time? "I have absolutely no memory of that." But what about spanking? "Julius didn't get along with anyone," she says of her second husband. "There was constant verbal abuse -- but he was not physically abusive." Well, certainly you put your marriage at the center of the family. "It's not biologically natural to put marriage at the center of the family!" she exclaims. Perhaps you say that because of your difficult marriage; after all, as your son told me, you slept in your own locked room. "John must have slipped off his track," Goldberg mutters. "Julius and I shared a double bed."
 What had I expected? Mother and son haven't spoken in years. ("It was over a piece of bedroom furniture," Rosemond told me. Goldberg's version: "He defrauded me of a piano.") Who can know who's telling the truth? And in the end, does it matter, particularly when compared to Emily Goldberg's cynicism about her son? "I'm very surprised he's become conservative," she says. "I think it's because the money is on the right. But I would not be caught dead reading a right-wing tract on how to raise a child.
"The rigidity of John's ideas about religion and raising children," Goldberg says in closing, "is the rigidity of a person who's come up against the hard truth of society: you can't change anyone. You can thank your ancestors, or you can curse them." Or, I think, you can pretend they just don't matter.
 Our conversation makes me sad. I am no psychiatrist, so analyzing it feels inappropriate, but I can't help thinking that the origins of this mother-child rift are more concrete than a piece of furniture could ever be. On one side of the chasm stands the son, the impassioned moralist, arguing that bad behaviors -- and bad memories -- can be eradicated through sheer will. On the other is the mother, the scientist, coolly insisting that no amount of scrambling can free a person from his biological destiny.
 It's true. You really can't get something for nothing.
 
The Disciplinarians
Parenting styles -- and parenting advice -- fall into three basic camps. Permissive parents try to reason with their children, demanding little, responding in an almost collegial way to their desires. At the other extreme are authoritarians, who see obedience as a virtue and their word as law. In the middle are authoritative parents -- firm but fair, valuing both autonomy and respectfulness. While John Rosemond and others in the back-to-basics camp can't agree on what labels to attach to themselves -- indeed, it's interesting to note that their politics range from moderate to conservative -- they agree on this: they all see themselves as necessary correctives to a pendulum that has swung too far toward the permissive.
 The academic dean of this group is William Damon, director of the Center on Adolescence at Stanford, a Ph.D. in developmental psychology and author of "Greater Expectations: Overcoming the Culture of Indulgence in Our Homes and Schools." A defender of the virtues of authority and an outspoken critic of those who give children too much freedom and autonomy, Damon thinks Rosemond, while "simplistic" at times, is "an important counterbalance to 90 percent of the people out there who have led" others "down the garden path." On the sensitive subject of spanking, Damon votes "no."
 Kevin Ryan's favorite topic is character development. And, he maintains, one way of developing character is through corporal punishment. Ryan, the director of the Center for the Advancement of Ethics and Character at Boston University and a Ph.D. in education, says "children are not born civilized." The parental job is to make sure that they become civilized -- by enforcing table manners (from the time kids sit at the table), establishing regular chores (from the age of 3) and punishing as needed. Spanking is "an age-old human teaching tool"; isolation and the denial of privileges are other punishment options.
 The name of Anne Cassidy's book -- "Parents Who Think Too Much" -- pretty much sums up the position of this journalist-critic: Parents read too many books (though presumably hers is an exception), place too little faith in their own instincts and allow their lives to revolve around their children to too great an extent. Cassidy says she thinks to spank or not to spank is a private decision. "Do as I say, not as I do," is a more-than-appropriate phrase now and then, Cassidy insists -- and if you don't, go to bed without your supper.
 James Dobson, who holds a Ph.D. in child development, is the grandfather of punitive parenting. His book, "Dare to Discipline," published in 1970 and reissued as "The New Dare to Discipline" in 1992, has sold in excess of 3.5 million copies. His call-in radio show, which these days is more about conservative politics than child care, is carried on more than 4,000 radio stations worldwide with a listenership of 3.5 million; some 2.5 million people receive his Focus on the Family newsletter, which is published in Colorado Springs. Dobson believes in spanking "under certain circumstances," says a spokeswoman, and thinks teachers should be allowed to administer corporal punishment; another option he recommends (for occasional use only) is the squeezing of the trapezius muscle between the neck and shoulder. "The shoulder muscle is a surprisingly useful source of minor pain," he points out. Dobson is a Christian; his premise is that children identify their parents, and especially their fathers, with God. Within that context, it would seem strange for parents not to demand respect.
 Much newer to the fray are Gary and Anne Marie Ezzo; a former pastor at Grace Community Church in Sun Valley, Calif., and his wife, who is a registered nurse, run Growing Families International, a for-profit organization "to provide resources that instill biblical principals for families." They are also the authors of a series of controversial Bible-based parenting curricula, including "Growing Kids God's Way," which has been used worldwide by more than one million parents. These are their basic recommendations: First-time obedience is expected; directions or commands are given once. Babies are fed on a schedule, left to sleep through the night by eight weeks and toilet trained between 18 and 24 months. Children are held accountable for "accidents" after two and a half years and should clean up themselves and their soiled clothing. Spanking is fine, beginning at 18 months, preferably with "a small piece of flexible leather or plastic to create a sting," says a spokesman; prior to that, parents can squeeze or swat a baby's hand.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Bill West)(pg. 33)
 
Illustrations (Illustrations by Ross MacDonald)(pgs. 34-37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (69%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); MIDWEST USA (55%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); KANSAS, USA (69%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); MIDWEST USA (55%); WICHITA, KS, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY RELIGION (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); MARRIAGE (73%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (68%); INFOMERCIALS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: BOLOTIN, SUSAN; ROSEMOND, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



293 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: ART / ARCHITECTURE;
A Playground For Technology's Arts of Illusion

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: KARLSRUHE, Germany

 BODY:
ART museums are tangible links to history, filled with stone and canvas dossiers attesting that human aspiration and conflict were as compelling in Titian's and Hokusai's time as in our own. As the traditional notion of reality fractures, and it becomes possible to imagine living in a culture that is largely illusion, the museum might be a bulwark against the loss of both past and present, or so says Hans-Peter Schwarz, director of the Z.K.M./Center for Art and Media here. In a book called "Media/Art/History" (Prestel), he writes: "A museum must always remain that impressive place where one can assure oneself of one's own reality and of the material reality of the historical and artistic evidence of history. It is perhaps the museum that can provide one of the last refuges for the sensual scrutiny of reality, particularly in this age of total simulations."
This might be considered an odd viewpoint for a man who heads the first and biggest museum of media art anywhere, a museum dedicated to simulation, hybrid arts and confounded perception. Yet even the Media Museum may come to seem like a bastion of old-fashioned direct reality if such visionary notions as "neural museums" implanted on chips in visitors' neck muscles are someday carried out. 
 The Media Museum is one part of the Center for Art and Media Technology (Zentrum fur Kunst und Medientechnologie), an institution that has no exact parallel in the world and not even a recognizable echo in America. Founded in 1989 and opened to the public in October 1997, the Z.K.M. has more than 48,000 square yards of usable space. It houses, in addition to the museum, an Institute for Visual Media, an Institute of Media and Acoustics, a media library, a media theater, a Museum for Contemporary Art and, under different direction, the State Academy of Design and the Municipal Gallery of the City of Karlsruhe.
Today's world is already a media-scape, with television following travelers onto planes, fashion shows on monitors in department stores, buildings flashing news and advertisements, and sports contests, rock concerts and political events reproducing themselves in real time on large screens for the benefit of those attending in person.
Artists have been trying to come to terms with the newer technologies since the early 1960's, when Nam June Paik compressed a television signal to a thin line on the screen and called it "Zen TV." The techniques of electronic art were largely pioneered by science and engineering museums years before art museums were interested, but by now most good-size art museums have at least exhibited individual pieces. In 1995, the media artist Bill Viola represented the United States at the Venice Biennale, and Gary Hill's interactive installation took the main prize there.
Still, collections and permanent displays are prohibitively expensive and require huge spaces, and most such art is seen principally at technology fairs and congresses. Enter the Z.K.M. and its few smaller peers, chiefly the Ars Electronica Center in Linz, Austria, which opened in 1996, and the InterCommunication Center in Tokyo, open since 1997.
Touring the Media Museum is like roaming an electronic theme park, a futuristic playground for grown-ups where miniature theaters, videos and oversize images morph, dance, respond to questions and urge visitors along on fictive journeys. Theme parks, incidentally, have been major players in the electronic field, where the entertainment industry is a driving economic force. Electronic games are now a $10 billion market worldwide, and designers and manufacturers in search of opportunity have made major contributions to the software and hardware of interactive applications. It could even be argued that the most prominent electronic artists are the generally unsung special-effects people for film and the graphic designers for Pac Man, Pong, Doom, et al.
At the Z.K.M., an installation called "World of Games," collected and developed by the Center, serves as both history and encyclopedia. And a day at the media museum, stocked with machines that manufacture unrealities, near-realities and super-realities, is the cutting-edge way to have that old-fashioned experience called fun.
The visitor can ride a stationary bicycle through Jeffrey Shaw's "Legible City," where all the buildings are letters of the alphabet, or touch what in this case are actual plants in Christa Sommerer and Laurent Mignonneau's "Interactive Plant Growing," making magical plants spring up in response on the screen. At the table where Masaki Fujihata has projected "Beyond Pages," an illustrated book makes a real lamp light up when a picture of a light switch is tapped with a pen, or causes a door projected on a wall to swing and a naked child to run in and out when a pictured doorknob is touched.
In Pierre Dutilleux and Christian Muller- Tomfelde's "ArchitectureMusic Labor," a visitor with headphones can hear the precise differences between the way Beethoven sounds in a cathedral, a Roman amphitheater, a bedroom or a cylindrical or a spherical space. Or one can hear how jazz, or snoring, or a flushing toilet, sounds in those same spaces.
The museum is both an education and a delight, though by no means does everything answer to that description. (Technology-oriented art has already amply proved that it can be ponderous, poky and dull.) The museum's system of labeling is hopeless; it is often hard to tell which exhibit is which. Though even art ought to be user-friendly, the programs for a few of the installations are difficult to decipher for anyone over 15, and a good many exhibitions were on the blink the day I was there. I have seen the future, and it does not always work.
Yet this museum makes clear how radically the traditional stance toward art has already been changed, with participation elbowing in on centuries of observation. In practice, this newly active role proves relatively circumscribed, as viewer-determined changes are almost always within programmed parameters. Such art also demands large quantities of time, negating the viewer's (if that's still the right word) expectation of control over how long to spend with a work of art. Video art alone can take irritating amounts of time before a viewer can tell if it's worth looking at. What's more, participation is seldom communal, except sometimes on the Net; one person at a console may be interacting with a machine but is not exactly sharing an esthetic experience with a friend.
The Z.K.M./Museum for Contemporary Art, which owns some 500 pieces, almost all from the last two decades, offers plenty of traditionally made art, yet it, too, has an uncommonly high proportion of media-related work, and these pieces outshine the paintings and sculpture on view in almost every instance. In Fabrizio Plessi's "Cariatide," a column of bricks sits atop a monitor with a video image of a brick wall, making a deft comment on the underpinnings of reality. Steina Vasulka's "Borealis" engulfs the visitor in sound and mirrored images of waves or stones that are seen first in painful close-up and then suddenly cascading down.
The Contemporary Museum will eventually become a separate unit and the Z.K.M. will concentrate on media art and research, but at the end of next year, a Collectors' Museum will open with a kind of parallel history of traditional art: shows from six private collections featuring art that dates from Rauschenberg and Warhol to the present, in old-fashioned mediums like paint.
THE Institute for Visual Media invites artists from around the world to work in its labs with high-end equipment for anything from a couple of days to a year. Bill Viola did his first interactive piece, "Tree of Knowledge," there. The institute also develops hardware and software tailored to artistic needs.
The Institute of Music and Acoustics, which occupies a blue glass cube built onto the Z.K.M.'s front facade near the entrance, offers composers and performers opportunities to work with the latest technologies and will foster research into the creation of new instruments (and doubtless new sounds). The composition program was established jointly with the Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics at Stanford University.
The digital era has encroached on the age of mechanical reproduction in more areas than imagery; as Johannes Goebel, director of this institute, writes in "Media/Art/History," "Even sounds are no longer produced mechanically using muscle power, but indirectly, electronically."
The media library is compiling a comprehensive collection of contemporary music, which so far includes a digitized archive of electronic music, chiefly from the 1950's to the present; more than 500 videos spanning three decades, the first collection of its kind in Germany, and approximately 20,000 books and CD-ROM's on art of this century.
The media theater puts on public performances once or twice a week, ranging from lectures to concerts (electronic and otherwise) to traditional film to theater.
The Center is situated in an old industrial section of Karlsruhe, in a converted munitions factory, an immense building with open interior spaces laced with steel trusses, pipes that run up three stories to skylights and cantilevered stairways. Dr. Gerd Schwandner, the acting chairman and general manager, likes to think of the Center as a kind of disarmament program and happily points out that the new, neighboring office building of the federal attorney general is quite dwarfed by his institution. "You can see how culture is estimated in Germany," he says. "This country has the highest per capita expenditure on culture in the world. Hong Kong comes in second."
He says that the media arts have created the first global arts scene, and not only on the Net: just about everyone in the field knows everyone else. The number of artists is still relatively small, they all need to know the same things, they all attend the same conferences, and many pass through the Center at one point or another, often meeting at the media festival.
Appropriately enough, the Center itself has a global reach, with access to its home page on the Web (www.zkm.de) established in German, English, French, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese and Alsatian. It is providing expertise to Baptist University in Hong Kong, which is sending a few students to Karlsruhe, and, in addition to exchanging professors and staff with the faculty of science at Chulalongkorn University, in Bangkok, will also set up a multimedia center there. Yet another partnership is being arranged (with the Walker Hill Art Center) in Seoul, South Korea, to convert an established museum into one that emphasizes media. The Center has already collaborated twice on exhibitions with the Guggenheim Museum in SoHo.
The Z.K.M./Media Museum is surely the only museum in the world that has ever commissioned a video game, then put it on display. Though many of the installations ask hard questions about serious issues, the museum simply brushes aside the barrier between art and entertainment.
The historian J. Huizinga once wrote: "It is a general phenomenon that the idea which works of art give us of an epoch is far more serene and happy than that which we glean in reading its chronicles, documents, or even literature. Plastic art does not lament." Centuries from now archeologists sifting through the ruins of the Z.K.M. may think that this troubled century believed art was one game and technology another, and life was lived to play them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Institute for Music and Acoustics, left, at the Z.K.M./Center for Art and Media Technology, is known as the "blue cube," because of its color (Bernhard Kroll/Z.K.M.); "Floating Identities," a sculpture by Frank den Oudsten, 1995. (Frank den Oudsten/Z.K.M.)(pg. 37); Marie-Jo Lafontaine's "Les Larmes d'Acier" ("Tears of Steel"). (Bernhard Schmitt, Karlsruhe/Z.K.M.)(pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (67%); 

COMPANY: ZKM/CENTER FOR ART AND MEDIA (KARLSRUHE, GER) ZENTRUM FUER KUNST & MEDIENTECHNOLOGIE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZKM/CENTER FOR ART AND MEDIA (KARLSRUHE, GER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (67%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POLITICS (73%); ENGINEERING (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); FASHION SHOWS (50%); POP & ROCK (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, VICKI

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



294 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 16; Column 6; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Cuba and Freedom

 BODY:

To the Editor: I have read "Cuba Draws the Curious, Despite the Law" (Jan. 31). Whatever justifications are raised for banning United States citizens from traveling to Cuba are negated by the law's blatant hypocrisy. 
 If the trade embargo on Cuba is a statement against Fidel Castro's restricting the freedom of Cuba's citizens, what kind of example is set when the United States restricts the freedom of its own citizens to travel where they wish? (I grew up in the United States, but currently teach fifth grade at the American School of Quito, Ecuador.)
 
ANTHONY SALM
Quito, Ecuador 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (92%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (92%); QUITO, ECUADOR (65%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (84%); 

PERSON: SALM, ANTHONY FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



295 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Fairfield;
Lawsuit Over Parking Stalls a Town Center's Redevelopment

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
WHEN the Fairfield Store -- a clothing store occupying what was considered the best location in the Fairfield Center business district -- closed in 1996, neighboring merchants along the Post Road and town officials viewed it as the beginning of a transition. They also saw it as a wake-up call for serious economic revitalization.
For as long as anyone could remember, the Fairfield Store, at the intersection of the Post Road (U.S. 1) and Reef Road, was the anchor store for the whole Fairfield Center commercial strip, the hub upon which the fortunes of many other businesses turned. Without it, many feared the business district would slip into decay, as so many others have. Naturally, the future use of the Fairfield Store building was of great interest. 
 It looked as if the problem was solved in June when Fairfield's zoning board approved a plan by a local developer to consolidate the two properties that the Fairfield Store had occupied and construct a two-story retail and office structure that would house several nationally known stores.
But the development plan has gone awry over Fairfield Center's shortage of parking, and the disagreement of an opponent whose court challenge of the zoning approval has brought the project to a halt.
"Right now we're a dead town," said Frank Mercurio, owner of Mercurio's Market, directly across the street from the Fairfield Store building.
Had the project gone ahead as planned, it would be nearing completion now. Instead, empty stores punctuate the street where several have closed, and many of the survivors report sluggish sales. They say their holiday numbers were 25 to 38 percent below what they were before the Fairfield Store closed, according to Robert Bilek, executive director of the Fairfield Chamber of Commerce. "This one person is now holding up this major project," he said.
The one person is Doug Munson, a real estate broker who sued to stop the development saying it lacked the required parking under the town's zoning regulations and that a planned parking deck would harm the character of the neighborhood behind it. But Mr. Munson said that his real complaint is about what he called "corporate welfare."
In order to approve the development, the Town Plan and Zoning Commission allowed Starwood Ceruzzi, the development company, to retain the Fairfield Store's existing non-conforming number of parking spaces, and further reduced the required number by applying several other regulatory technicalities. Thus, the new development was approved with 289 parking spaces, although Jack Curran, Mr. Munson's lawyer, said the regulations really require 323.
Mindful of the chronic shortage of parking in Fairfield Center, town officials convinced the developer to agree to build a parking garage, and then license 65 of the parking spaces for the use of shoppers who wanted to go to other stores or to restaurants. "In a sense, this is like a subsidy," explained Sherri LaFleche, Fairfield's director of housing and economic development.
Mr. Munson, whose real estate office is next to the site of the parking garage, said he doesn't like the parking garage, and likes even less that the town's taxpayers will pay to help build it. "I'm opposed to the town paying for someone's private investment," he said.
He also said that town officials really want the parking garage to alleviate a shortage of parking spaces at the nearby Fairfield railroad station. "There's absolutely no planning in this town," Mr. Munson said. "They fly by the seat of their pants."
"This has nothing to do with railroad parking," said Ms. LaFleche, although she concedes that that is a problem.
Fairfield, says Ms. LaFleche, has the second busiest railroad station in Fairfield County, second only to Stamford, and the traffic flow to and from it is so congested that adding more station parking is undesirable. Instead, the town wants to build another station near the Bridgeport city line.
The subsidy of the parking garage is intended simply to help get a valuable piece of commercial property back in use, and not for some ulterior motive, she said.
The economic consequences of the lawsuit have hurt the town's business image, according to Mr. Bilek. "It has to do with how people perceive our town," he said. Because Fairfield Center isn't doing well, it reflects on the whole town as not a good place to do business.
But John Ceruzzi, vice president of Starwood Ceruzzi, said Fairfield might be in a enviable position, because many national retail chains are looking for affordable alternatives to Westport or Greenwich. The lawsuit has caused some of his prospective tenants, whom he wouldn't identify but characterized as household names, to look elsewhere, but he added, "They would like to get into Fairfield."
He called the Fairfield Store property the "premiere location in Fairfield." It is next to a town green and on the corner of a major road to the beach. The combination of that location and a new building, he said, would bring in premium rents for four to six retailers and two or three service company offices on the second floor.
In the meantime, merchants in Fairfield Center have had to make the best of it. Mr. Mercurio said he has noticed a decrease in his lunch business as the result of the Fairfield Store and others closing, but he said he wasn't hurt as much as some others.
The closing of the Fairfield Store came just as many business leases expired. The combination of rent increases and the loss of their anchor store proved fatal to several retailers, such as a vegetable market and a shop catering to inline skaters.
Spencer Schwartzbach, owner of Fairfield Stationers, which, like Mercurio's Market, is across the street from the Fairfield Store, said he shifted his business to printing services and office supplies, and created a Web site so that customers could order their office supplies over the Internet, to compensate for the loss of walk-in sales.
But Mr. Schwartzbach said he doubted that things would ever again be like they were when the Fairfield Store was open. He said that people just refuse to shop in Fairfield Center, browsing from store to store, like they used to.
Mr. Munson said that if he lost his case, which goes to trial in Superior Court on Thursday, he would appeal, to the state's Supreme Court if necessary.
"He can keep this tied up for years, as long as his pocketbook can handle it," observed Mr. Schwartzbach. He said he thought Mr. Munson was wrong for holding up Starwood Ceruzzi's development. "This is the best that's on the table," he said. "You have to go with the best you have."
Originally, Mr. Munson was joined in his suit by two other businessmen, but they have since dropped out after meeting with the developer. Some have speculated that Mr. Munson was holding out for a settlement but he said that he has turned down an attractive settlement offer.
Mr. Bilek noted that the lawsuit has cost Mr. Munson some friends. "Some of these people," he said of the Center's business owners, "were really close to Doug."
Mr. Munson said he is strongly opposed to the town's subsidizing private development and concerned that the entry of national retailers might alter the character of the town. "I'm seriously considering running as an independent for First Selectman," he said. "They're trying to change our town and make it a big corporate thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since the Fairfield Store closed, the town's business district has been struggling with issues of revitalization. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAIRFIELD CENTER (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAIRFIELD CENTER (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRFIELD (CONN); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ZONING; PARKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LITIGATION (90%); ZONING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAWYERS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: MUNSON, DOUG; MUSANTE, FRED MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



296 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Westchester;
Westchester and Putnam Post Record Housing Sales

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
BOTH Westchester and Putnam Counties posted records last year in residential sales and resulting dollar volume, according to figures released late last month by the Westchester County Board of Realtors.
In Westchester, where records were reported for a third successive year, there were 9,967 sales with an aggregate value of $3.3 billion. That represents an increase of 17 and 24 percent, respectively, over the 1997 figures of 8,504 sales worth $2.6 billion. 
 In Putnam, there were 2,425 sales totaling $755 million, increases of 36 and 47 percent, respectively, over the 1997 figures of 2,189 and $655 million.
"We're really part of a national phenomenon" said P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the Board of Realtors, whose members represent both counties. "Westchester and Putnam just have a greater amount of improvement, as far as volume of business, in all property categories."
Mr. Mercurio attributes the sales pace to the health of the economy and low interest rates.
"This is indicative of continued consumer confidence, not so much in Westchester itself, but in New York City," Mr. Mercurio explained. "Job growth in Westchester has been anemic and the office vacancy rate is high. If you looked at the economy of Westchester alone, you'd be hard-pressed to explain the residential numbers. But it really represents the fact that people who work in the city are now ready to make the move to the suburbs."
One distinguishing feature this year, for all property categories, except condominiums, is that average prices in Westchester increased by 7 to 8 percent from the prior year.
"This is the first real appreciation we've seen," Mr. Mercurio said. "In past years, prices have just kept pace with inflation, but these increases are beyond that."
In the detached-house category, which accounts for 67 percent of all sales, the median sale price was $320,000, up 7 percent over 1997. The median price of a two- to five-family house was $215,000, up 8 percent from the prior year, as were co-ops, which sold for a median price of $79,698. Only condominiums, with a median price of $162,500, saw no appreciable increase in price.
The price increases are largely due to a greater number of buyers selecting higher-priced properties, Mr. Mercurio said. "Most of these buyers are coming from New York City," he said. "Because the market is so good there, those buyers are able to sell their co-op apartments and are buying the most expensive properties."
CAROLINE SHEPHERD, regional manager for Coldwell Banker's Previews luxury homes marketing division, said she had noticed a great deal more activity in higher-priced homes.
In the New York area, Coldwell Banker recorded 367 sales of homes priced over $1 million, a 32 percent increase over 286 the year before. The average sales price increased from a record $1.5 million in 1997 to $1.6 million in 1998.
Nationally, the increases were even more dramatic. In 1998, Coldwell Banker participated in closings on 4,305 properties priced over $1 million with a total sale volume of $7.32 billion. That represents an increase of 78 percent in the 2,421 properties sold in 1997 and an 84 percent increase in the dollar volume of $4 billion the previous year.
In Westchester, the highest-priced house sold by Coldwell Banker in 1998 was a five-bedroom, five-bath colonial in Bedford, for $4.4 million. The highest price in 1997 was $2.4 million for another house in Bedford, Ms. Shepherd said.
All of this sales activity has had a sharp effect on the number of homes on the market. By year's end, Westchester's inventory of 4,634 residential properties was 25 percent below 1997's level of 6,203. Putnam County's inventory fell to 830 properties last year, down 23 percent or 1,072 from the year before.
"Inventory is definitely down," Ms. Shepherd said, "and not only for high-priced properties, but for all houses."
This often manifests itself in bidding wars, according to Arline Dahlman, manager of the Katonah office of Randolph Properties.
"Katonah is so hot now that houses are selling almost immediately," Ms. Dahlman said. "With its art galleries, museums and quaint streets, it seems to be very popular with young families, who want a sense of old-time comfort."
Recently, a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath colonial farmhouse came on the market for $429,000, and immediately had eight offers. "It wound up selling for $25,000 more than its list price," Ms. Dahlman said.
When Heike Schulte and Peter Fraenkel, who live in Manhattan, decided to look for a house in Westchester they said they were shocked at the competitive atmosphere.
The couple looked for a year before finding a three-bedroom colonial for $314,000 in Dobbs Ferry. They closed three weeks ago.
"One time we saw a $300,000 house we liked," Ms. Schulte said. "Then five people bid on it and the price went up to $340,000. At one point, we almost gave up and said, "We just can't afford to move.' "
As a result of the lack of inventory and higher prices, many buyers have been opting for more affordable options by looking north to Putnam County. "As Westchester benefits from New York City, Putnam benefits from Westchester," Mr. Mercurio said.
ONE Putnam development in Kent, called Sparrow Ridge, started in 1996, and is now two-thirds sold out, according to Lenard Thylan, president of Thylan Associates in Manhattan, which is developing the project.
Sparrow Ridge has 116 units, with two-bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths, some with den and basement, priced from $163,900 to $210,000. "The fact that it's in Putnam and that I bought the land at exactly the right time enabled me to offer an affordable product," Mr. Thylan said. "In Westchester these homes would cost $50,000 to $75,000 more."
When Jill Roberts and her husband, Don, a mail carrier for the United States Postal Service in Bedford, were looking to move out of their co-op in Yonkers, they couldn't find anything they wanted in their price range in Westchester. So they looked in Putnam and will soon be moving into Sparrow Ridge. "It had everything we wanted -- privacy, a garage, a fireplace," Ms. Roberts said. "We never expected and didn't want to leave Westchester. I've lived in Yonkers my whole life."
Living in Putnam will mean that Ms. Roberts, who works as a executive secretary for Coca-Cola in Hawthrone, will have a longer commute. "It will be 33 minutes instead of 12," Ms. Roberts said. "But we really had no choice. There was just nothing for us in Westchester."
Since sales began at Sparrow Ridge in 1996, prices have increased 10 percent, Mr. Thylan said. "We're getting all ages," he said. "This kind of housing appeals to young families and empty nesters. I wish I could do more of it, because the market is there, but unfortunately there's no buildable land left."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jill and Don Roberts will soon be moving into their new home in Kent, N.Y. They had wanted to stay in Westchester, but could not afford it.
(Claire Yaffa for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Strong Market Gets Stronger" demonstrates how sales and prices of single family homes, condominiums and cooperatives continued to rise in Westchester from 1988-1999. (Source: Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (95%); COLDWELL BANKER'S PREVIEWS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (95%); COLDWELL BANKER'S PREVIEWS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUTNAM COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (68%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



297 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property / New Jersey;
After a Lull, a Comeback for Morris County Offices

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
SLEEK new corporate buildings are again sprouting in Morris County, which blossomed into one of the state's larger suburban office markets during the construction boom of the mid-80's.
The boom was muted by the subsequent recession, but the push to develop, albeit at a slower pace, resumed two years ago and is now gaining momentum. 
 Work on projects under way, recently completed or about to begin currently totals more than 1.6 million square feet, according to Associated Realty, a commercial brokerage in Parsippany. Several of the buildings are being put up "on spec" -- without signed leases in place for any of the space. The "spec" projects under construction include a 350,000-square-foot building nearing completion in Parsippany, a 203,000-square-foot structure under way in Madison and a 220,000-square-foot, two-building complex about to be started in Morris Township.
In addition, three build-to-suit projects totaling 910,000 square feet are being developed for specific users.
Most of the construction is taking place in proven locations, along highway corridors and in existing corporate parks in the eastern half of the county, an established business address. As such it picks up essentially where the rush to build offices left off earlier this decade, said Thomas A. Reilly, senior vice president at the Teaneck office of CB Richard Ellis, a national commercial brokerage. "The market is craving some new buildings," Mr. Reilly said. "The difference is that they are taking shape at a much more cautious rate."
The caution stems from the overbuilding a decade ago. Financing for speculative projects today also is tight and became even tighter after the stock market slide last August rattled nerves on Wall Street, industry professionals said.
About three-fourths of the county's 23 million square feet of office space was built in the mid-80's. So when the recession hit the county was left with a surfeit of space, which raised the office vacancy rate d to 33 percent at its peak in 1991 and slowed construction through 1996.
Since then New Jersey's healthy economy and job market has encouraged companies to grow, helping to absorb much of the excess space. Brokers say Morris County is now one of four markets in the state where space is tight enough, rents have risen high enough and demand is strong enough to justify new construction. The others are Jersey City's Hudson River waterfront, the Princeton Route 1 corridor in the center of the state and the Interstate 78-287 corridor in Somerset County.
The demand for space in Morris County is coming mostly from local companies -- including insurance, financial, pharmaceutical and telecommunications concerns -- expanding or consolidating, said Eric N. Witmondt, president of Associated Realty.
"These represent not only growth moves but a flight to quality," Mr. Witmondt said.
Some companies, he added, are also relocating to the county, which continues to be bolstered by a location that provides access to major highways as well as to labor.
State Farm Insurance, for example, recently announced that it would relocate its northeastern regional headquarters from Wayne in Passaic County to Parsippany. It will build a 400,000-square-foot complex, jump-starting development of the Center of Morris County, a 90-acre office park just south of the intersection of I-80 and I-287 that eventually will contain 850,000 square feet of office space.
AS of the end of the year the vacancy rate in the county was 13.2 percent, down from 13.6 percent a year ago, and the vacancy rate for Class A space was 9 percent, down 9.2 percent. At the same time overall average annual asking rents have risen to $23.26 from $22.24 and asking rents for prime space increased to $25.51 from $25.15, according to Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage.
With large blocks of prime space limited, some growing companies, like Newcourt Credit Group, have sought out build-to-suit opportunities in the county. The Toronto-based financial services firm will relocate its United States headquarters from Parsippany to Hanover when the first 272,000-square-foot building of a three-building, 750,000-square-foot complex on 80 acres off Eden Lane is completed in 2000. The developer of the more than $80 million complex is Eden Wood Realty Group of Whippany.
Explaining Newcourt's choice, Robert J. Ingato, its executive vice president, said there were few existing suitable buildings to choose from and fewer still that fit his company's expansion needs. Newcourt, he said, plans to double its New Jersey workforce, now about 1,000 employees, in five years, adding that staying in the area will enable his company to retain existing employees and attract new ones. Mr. Ingato said Newcourt would lease the first structure at the complex for 15 years and had options to lease the other two buildings.
The county's tightening market has also encouraged developers to proceed with projects on speculation. But, the difficulty in obtaining financing for such projects "will keep demand in balance with supply and the market at a status quo at least through next year," said Donald P. Eisen, executive managing director for the New York area at Cushman & Wakefield, another national commercial brokerage.
The largest speculative building in this round of development is Morris Corporate Center IV, a 350,000-square-foot structure nearing completion in Parsippany. The building is the latest addition to Morris Corporate Center, a 135-acre business park at the intersection of I-80 and Route 202, where 1.5 million square feet of an eventual total of 2.2 million square feet has been developed and is fully leased.
Given that and the low vacancy rate in the county, Peter Eppie, senior vice president at SJP Properties off Parsippany, the park's developer, said:
"We are confident this building will continue the park's proven track record since no other building of this size, quality or location will come on the market in the next 18 months." The company is developing the building, reported to cost $70 million, in partnership with the Prudential Insurance Company of America, based in Newark.
Mr. Eppie said discussions were under way with a few users for either all or half of the space in the building, adding that rents would be competitive. (Grubb & Ellis says that similar space in Parsippany rents for $26.71 a square foot.) As soon as a significant portion of the building is leased his company plans to start construction on another 350,000-square-foot structure, which would complete the park, he said.
AT Park Avenue at Morris County, a 90-acre corporate center on Park Avenue in Florham Park, construction is winding down on the last of four speculative buildings. That 175,000-square-foot building -- like the other three, which are of similar size and among the first to rise in this development wave -- is nearly fully leased. When finished it will complete the 1-million-square-foot park, half of which was built before 1991.
"We had the right product at the right time," said Mark Yeager, president of the commercial group at Gale & Wentworth, a real estate services and investment company in Florham Park that developed the four buildings for the J. P. Morgan Investment Company in Manhattan, the park's owner.
Encouraged by that response Mr. Yeager said his company, in partnership with Morgan Stanley, the Manhattan-based investment banking firm, which is not part of J. P. Morgan, has started or will soon start construction on two other speculative buildings in the county.
One, a $40 million, 203,000-square-foot building, is rising on 20 acres within the 184-acre Madison Township portion of Giralda Farms, once the estate of Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge. The former estate now has headquarters for major corporations such as American Home Products, Schering-Plough and Atlantic Mutual Companies. By midsummer the partners also plan to start a $30 million, 175,000-square-foot building at their Center at Morris County in Parsippany, where State Farm Insurance intends to build its new regional headquarters.
Mr. Yeager said it was the right time to build given that "the dynamics of the real estate market are still strong and the supply of space is being absorbed and will remain stable because of the strict financial governance on new development." Rents at both buildings, to be completed by the second quarter of 2000, are expected to be in the $24- to $26-a-square-foot range, he said.
In Morris Township, Schenkman/Kushner, based in Bridgewater, has begun transforming 36 acres off Mount Kemble Avenue, also Route 202, and not far from I-287, into a 220,000-square-foot, two-building business park. The developer is using its own equity and bank financing to build the more than $40 million project, known as Mount Kemble Corporate Center.
"There's always a risk with speculative construction, but with the tremendous demand for quality space in this market it's a risk worth taking," said Jeffrey Persky, vice president at Schenkman/Kushner. To capture that demand, he added, "You can't sell from an empty shelf."
Mr. Persky said the two buildings, which have been designed to accommodate one or several tenants, are to be completed by the end of the year. Annual rents are expected to be $24 a square foot.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 350,000-square-foot Morris Corporate Center IV, now nearing completion in the 135-acre Morris Corporate Center in Parsippany, N.J. (Chun Lai)
 
Map of Northern New Jersey, highlighting Morris County.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MORRIS COUNTY (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); SPACECRAFT & SATELLITE INSURANCE (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); SUBURBS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE THOMAS A REILLY (59%); ERIC N WITMONDT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



298 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: The Secret Ingredients of Enduring Romance;
First, Start With Friendship. Second, Add the Rest

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES 

 BODY:
WHEN she was 19, Vickie French had a set of secret criteria for prospective dates and mates. "A guy had not only to be romantic and fun, he had to be nice to my little sisters," she recalled recently. "I figured, if the romance wore off, I'd still have a nice person."
A tall, square-jawed young man named Stephen Morris handily passed the test. Today, the Morrises -- he's 55, she's 53 -- have a 32-year-old storybook marriage that might sound saccharine if they were not so genuinely nice and down-to-earth about it. They are each other's best friends and confidants, they said, talking late into the night about the frivolous and serious; helping each other through life's inevitable crises. "When my father was dying, I could come home from the hospital and climb into bed with this person who was my rock; I could relax and feel safe," Mrs. Morris said. 
 Nor does their life lack romance. As a joint Valentine's-anniversary celebration (they were married Feb. 18, 1967) they will have a candlelight dinner at a restaurant near their Katonah house. Even ordinarily, candlelight flickers for dinner in the dining room. The bedroom, with its vast bed, cathedral ceiling and chintz draperies on windows overlooking an eight-acre spread, could be the honeymoon suite in a country resort. "Romance doesn't have to fade," Mr. Morris said. "If you cultivate it, you can keep it forever."
Despite the much discussed frequency of divorce in Westchester and elsewhere, the Morrises are not alone. True, they are blessed with a particularly pleasant-sounding life: he is president of Arbitron, a media-information company in Manhattan; she pursues her passion for art as a trustee in charge of development at the Katonah Museum. Their two children are grown and involved in careers of their own. Their home is surrounded by gardens they tend together. But regardless of financial or professional status, it seems that couples whose relationship is built on friendship fare well in marriage.
Statistics, of course, provide only a limited amount of information -- and are surprisingly hard to come by. The 1990 United States Census Bureau count is the most recent available for the total number of married people in Westchester; in that year, there were 203,500 married men and 206,583 married women living in the county, Noreen Preston, economist with the county Department of Planning, said. (The discrepancy derives from spouses living out of the county.)
In terms of the number of new marriages, the most recent figures available are from 1996, when there were 6,665 marriages (and 2,497 divorces and 17 annulments) in Westchester, according to Frances Tarlton, spokeswoman for the State Department of Health.
But in an admittedly tiny and strictly unscientific survey of a number of happily married couples, mental compatibility ranked highest in the list of must-haves for a successful marriage. Marriage and family therapists, like Dr. Jody Shachnow, clinical social worker at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Behavioral Health Care, Westchester Division in White Plains, say "a good fit emotionally" is paramount. "In the best marriages, minds tend to fit like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle," she said. "They don't have to match on every issue, but they need to mesh."
Joyce Levin, who practices family and couples therapy in White Plains, said: "Married people need to talk to and listen to each other. The most common complaint I hear is lack of emotional intimacy."
Interestingly, the requisite cerebral and emotional -- as opposed to merely physical -- connections often seem to be there from the very beginning. Dr. Shachnow said that most compatible couples love to retell the story of how they met and, frequently, how they spent hours and hours just talking.
"We had this one bench on campus, at Knoxville College in Tennessee, we called it our bench, where we'd sit and talk, all the time, day after day," Dedrian Vandiver, a 28-year-old medical receptionist, recalled. She and her 29-year-old husband, David Vandiver, a mathematics and physical education teacher and basketball coach at R. J. Bailey Elementary School and Woodlands Junior and Senior High School in Greenburgh, live with their 9-year-old son, D'Andre, and 3-month-old daughter, DeJah, in a high-rise apartment building in Greenburgh.
Sitting amid the things they have amassed in a year and a half of marriage -- African art posters, figurines of jazz musicians, a blond wood armoire she particularly likes -- she remembered her husband's marriage proposal. "I kept telling him, 'Don't propose to me unless you have a ring.' We'd taken this vacation in the Poconos, and I was sitting in the Jacuzzi in our room. All of a sudden, he gets up, runs to get something. It's this ring in a box. He kneels down at the edge of the Jacuzzi and before he could get the words out, I shouted, 'Yes.'
For Mr. Vandiver, the most important thing about marriage has been a sense of permanence and togetherness. "When our son was born, I made a vow to myself, I was going to get to Dedrian and do it right," he said, observing that she was initially the one reluctant to get married. "I believe that being married, having a good family structure, is exceptionally important. Dedrian and I complement each other; we understand each other's moods. This is very important: being married to someone you really love and who really loves you, knowing you have someone in your corner, someone you can turn to and trust, other than your mom."
As in anything else, when problems arise in a marriage, they range from terribly big to seemingly trivial. Dr. Shachnow, the clinical social worker, said children, money, sex and in-laws are major areas of contention. Ms. Levin said that bad bouts of alienation can be set off by a spouse forgetting to take out the garbage.
The Morrises, who said they rarely argue, said they learned to "develop common interests" to minimize certain differences in style. "Both of us started with the expectation that this was going to be a lifetime thing, and with the knowledge that at times it would require work," Mrs. Morris said. "He was from Oyster Bay, L.I., from a family of four boys, very practical, lots of inherited furniture, chintz that did not shine, the same Harris tweed coat and family photos for several generations. I was from a family of three girls, where everything was pretty and fancy and we loved art and museums. We both taught each other a lot."
Bob and Toni Henry, who are 74 and 69, respectively, and have been married 50 years, early on figured out how best to complement each other. "I let her take care of the finances," Mr. Henry, who ran a milk-delivery company, said. Mrs. Henry added with a laugh, "He ran the business and brought home the money, and I apportioned it out."
The Henrys, who live in a compact brick split-level house in Valhalla, believe that being in a milieu where they feel comfortable has enhanced their life together. Mr. Henry grew up in Valhalla (his father founded the R. B. Henry Milk Company) and Mrs. Henry grew up in White Plains; both went to White Plains High School although they did not meet until shortly after they had graduated. After they married, they lived in a series of houses in Valhalla. Their friends were neighbors, firefighters, police officers, teachers and shopkeepers.
"We had barbecues, cookouts, we went to each other's homes all the time," Mrs. Henry said. "Among our closest friends, the 12 couples we were closest to, there has not been one divorce. We lived in the kind of neighborhood where every mother fed, dressed and put her children out in the street to play with neighborhood children; it was that safe and close knit."
Things are considerably more complex these days. Sally and Bill Frank, who have been married 13 years, find that many of their waking hours revolve around their 10-year-old daughter, Alex, and 8-year-old son, Andrew. Mr. Frank, 50, is chief operating officer of Cognitive Arts, an educational software company based in Manhattan; Mrs. Frank, 43, works as an account executive for Harrison Edwards, a public relations concern in Bedford Hills. When they got married, they lived in Brazil, then Palm Beach, Fla. Now they are settled in Pound Ridge, in a handsomely restored 200-year-old farmhouse with wide-plank floors and the original fireplace and dutch oven.
Their existence seems like that of the ideal busy late-90's family, yet they have consciously had to work on making time for the children and themselves as a couple. Alex and Andrew are active in all the usual suburban extracurricular activities -- baseball, ice hockey, basketball, soccer -- plus Alex and Mrs. Frank ride horses. The couple have "excellent communication in all areas," they said. Even when he is traveling, he feels the need to call and talk to her several times a day -- but the one thing they wish they had more of was time. "We feel it is crucial to have lots of time with the children," Mr. Frank said. "For example, I love golf, but I've pretty much given it up. On weekends, I want to do things with the kids -- sports, shopping, barbecues, whatever."
It is time well invested, Mrs. Frank said. "This is a truly good marriage, and because the children spend so much time with us, they see that -- they sense it and feel it -- they see the essential give-and-take of a good marriage."
In the case of the Henrys, even the best marriage can be tested by tragedy. On March 23, 1974, their 20-year-old son, Robert, was killed in a car accident. For several years, Mrs. Henry said, they "moved like robots" around each other, not saying much, damming up their grief with silence. Finally, their daughter, Joanne, begged them to face their feelings. "It's something we'll never get over, but it did help us to begin talking about it together," Mrs. Henry said.
Indeed, death is something that even the most contented couples -- perhaps particularly the most contented couples -- have a hard time confronting. "Being happily married makes the thought of getting older easier," Mr. Morris said. "On the other hand, I have moments of thinking, What if something were to happen to her first? You're joined at the hip and the thought of getting unjoined is . . ." His wife took up the thought. "We'd like to go together when the time comes -- just go up on a cliff and disappear together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toni and Bob Henry of Valhalla (above), who have been married for 50 years. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) Bill and Sally Frank of Pound Ridge (top), who have been married for 13 years. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times) At far left are Dedrian and David Vandiver of Greenburgh, who have been married for a year and a half. Their children are D'Andre, 9, and DeJah, 3 months. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Vickie and Steve Morris, who have been married 32 years, with their cat, Ozzie, at their home in Katonah. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (51%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (75%); CHILDREN (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); CENSUS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: AMES, LYNNE STEPHEN MORRIS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



299 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

Art From Africa
An exhibition of art from three distinctive areas of the African continent may be seen at the Bruce Museum in Greenwich through April 18. Some 64 sculptures and masks created by the Dogon of modern-day Mali and Burkina Faso; the Fang, from Equatorial Guinea, Southern Cameroon and Gabon; and the Songye, who live between the Sankara and Luabala rivers in what is now the Republic of the Congo, have been lent to the museum from private collections. Many of the pieces have never been shown in public. 
 The sculptures, depicting human figures, sometimes with animal characteristics, were commissioned by leaders or individual members of the community to be placed at altars or shrines as a means of communication with the spirit world. Masks were key components of costumes used in rituals and ceremonies.
Unlike western art, the African works were never done as an end in themselves, but to serve some special purpose -- a rite of passage, the promotion of human fertility, advancement in rank or status, or to assure a good harvest.
Related lectures and films are scheduled through February and March, and two children's programs will be offered. One will take place today at 3 P.M., when African Horizons, a musical group, will perform in costume on authentic instruments. The concert is suitable for children in grades 1 through 5. Admission is $5.
The museum, off Exit 3 of Interstate 95, is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 to 5 and Sunday from 1 to 5. Admission is $3.50 for adults, $2.50 for children 2 through 12, and adults over 64. The number for more information is (203) 869-0376.
 
The First President
Myths, legends and facts about George Washington will be explored in a lecture called "Of Cherry Trees and Wooden Teeth: Parson Weems' Popularization of Our First, Great President," tomorrow at 8 P.M. at the Stamford Historical Society.
Joshua Lane, the society's curator, will discuss the national obsession with Washington that flourished during the 19th century, illustrated by engravings and ephemera from the society's archives.
The Historical Society is at 1508 High Ridge Road, and people who arrive at 7:30 will be treated to cherry tarts and coffee. Admission will be by commitment to join the society. For more information: (203) 329-1183.
 
Fun With Art
James Grashow is a man who enjoys his work, and those who see it have just as much fun. An exhibition of his anthropomorphic buildings, house plants, animals and what-have-you, is on view at Art/Place, the gallery in the westbound Southport train station, through March 7. This is one show that children as well as adults can appreciate. The artist is represented in several museums, including the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan.
Viewing hours are on Wednesday through Sunday from noon to 4:30. For more information or directions: (203) 255-9847.
 
Heading for Broadway
"The Civil War," a new musical opening on Tuesday at the Shubert Theater in New Haven, prior to a Broadway opening scheduled on April 22 at the St. James Theater, is described as "an emotional landscape" of the conflict rather than a litany of battles and political strife.
The music was composed by Frank Wildhorn, who provided the score for the Broadway productions of "Jekyll and Hyde" and "The Scarlet Pimpernel." Mr. Wildhorn was also a co-writer of the script with Gregory Boyd, artistic director of the Alley Theater in Houston, and Jack Murphy.
Under the direction of Jerry Zaks, the 26-member cast interprets a wealth of source material including letters, diaries, newspaper accounts, speeches by Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass, and the poetry of Walt Whitman. In adapting such diverse references, the writers have focused on recreating the stories of actual people who fought in the war and those whose lives were affected at home.
The show will run through March 7, with performances scheduled Tuesday through Thursday at 7:30, Saturday and Sunday at 2 and 8, and two additional matinees this Wednesday and March 3 at 2.
The numbers for tickets, priced from $28 to $60, are (800) 228-6622 or (203) 562-5666. The theater is at 247 College Street.
 
Rebellious Lawyers
Sister Helen Jean Prejean, author of "Dead Man Walking: An Eyewitness Account of the Death Penalty," will be the keynote speaker at the fifth annual Rebellious Lawyering Conference to be held on Saturday at Yale. Sister Prejean's lecture will be presented at 6 P.M. at the Yale Law School, 127 Wall Street in New Haven.
The conference will open on Friday, from 7 to 9 P.M., and continue through Sunday, with panel sessions slated on Saturday from 9 to 5:30 and on Sunday from 9 to noon.
Nearly three dozen university faculty members, lawyers, directors of legal defense and education centers, children's advocates, international economic and human rights officials, representatives of American Indian communities, Federal court judges, environmentalists and others will serve on the panels. Prevailing themes will be "Rebellious Lawyering in Rural Communities" and "Trying Times in Criminal Defense."
Registration costs $10. For more information: (203) 432-1325.
 
Art at Silvermine
A four-part exhibition opening today at the Silvermine Guild Arts Center in New Canaan features the work of James Jackson Burt and his father, David Burt; "Heart's Desire," a collection of love-inspired works by member artists; a kinetic installation with music by Robert Hepner, who will discuss his work today at 4 P.M.; and paintings by Gregory Amenoff. All the exhibits will remain through March 14.
"Remembering James Jackson Burt: Reviewing David Burt," pays tribute to two major forces in the local art scene, both longtime members of the guild. James Burt, who took his own life last May at the age of 43, after a losing battle with depression, was a founder of the Stamford Loft Artists' Association.
David Burt, also a member of the Loft Artists, is a former trustee of the guild and helped organize theguild's annual Art of the Northeast juried competition, for which he served as co-chairman for many years. Both men were influenced in producing their metalworks by David Burt's father-in-law, an inventor and structural engineer.
Robert Hepner's "Hat Factory" takes its name from his grandfather's hat factory in Danbury, but it uses the hat as a metaphor for the assembly-line aspects of suburban life, like the endless line of cars inching over the highways.
The galleries are open on Tuesday through Saturday from 11 to 5, and Sunday from 1 to 5, at 1037 Silvermine Road. Admission is $7. A reception is to be held today from 2 to 4. For more information: (203) 966-5617. ELEANOR CHARLES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Hepner's "Hat Factory," at Silvermine Guild in New Canaan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: AFRICA (93%); MALI (92%); CAMEROON (92%); GABON (92%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); BURKINA FASO (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: YALE LAW SCHOOL (58%); STAMFORD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE LAW SCHOOL (58%); STAMFORD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (93%); MALI (92%); CAMEROON (92%); GABON (92%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); BURKINA FASO (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (53%); 

PERSON: FRANK WILDHORN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



300 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Keeping an Old Synagogue Alive

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN 

 BODY:
THE synagogue at the south end of Orchard Street in New Haven is peeling in spots, and the surrounding lot needs trimming, but anyone driving by Congregation Beth Israel, with its marbled glass windows and Moorish overtones, can get a glimpse of its past glory. Sam Teitelman had his bar mitzvah at the synagogue in 1935 and can remember, probably better than anyone, the standing-room-only crowds on the Sabbath, holy days and other celebrations.
"This place was often filled to the gills," Mr. Teitelman said on a recent tour of the building. "There would be days when we had 1,000 people upstairs and 200 below and people waiting to get in." 
 Like most of the old members, Mr. Teitelman, 75 years old, moved out of the neighborhood years ago but continues to care for the Orchard Street shul, like it was an old and devoted friend. Inside the sanctuary, he runs his hand over a marbled wall etched in Hebrew with the names of members from when the synagogue was built in 1925. He pauses midway down a long column. "Here," he said, "this is my father's name."
Years have passed since members held regular services. The congregation is Orthodox, which restricts members from driving on the Sabbath. Most of the 100 or so members live in other parts of the city or surrounding suburbs and attend synagogues nearby, yet they continue to pay annual dues of $70 to Beth Israel. A few members still live in walking distance and on most weekdays meet in the basement banquet hall to hold a morning service, which requires 10 adult males to be in attendance. But for the most part, the sanctuary and corridors ring only with echoes of a time when the synagogue and its neighborhood stirred with the rhythms of Jewish life.
Over the years, there has been debate -- sometimes heated -- about the synagogue's future. Some have suggested putting the building up for sale. Mr. Teitelman, who is not alone, will hear none of that. "This is a building that deserves to be preserved," he said, his voice swelling with emotion. "We will never sell this. Never."
In recent months a congregational committee has been formed to devise ways of preserving the synagogue and establishing it as a monument to Jewish history in New Haven. Others, including some historians, say the synagogue's significance reaches beyond the city's boundaries. An architectural survey released in 1991 by the Connecticut Historical Commission examined 46 synagogues in Connecticut built between 1840 and 1940; Congregation Beth Israel was among the highlights.
"We were very astonished," said Mary Donohue, an author of the survey, referring to her visit to the synagogue in the early 1990's along with other historians. "To find the interior intact and all of the original artifacts in place, makes this synagogue one of a kind in Connecticut." She said that of the 46 synagogues in the survey, a third remain in Jewish hands. Others are now either cultural centers, businesses, churches or private homes. Many have been stripped of their religious symbols. Jewish families have been in Connecticut since the 17th century, but major waves of Jewish immigration did not begin until the middle of the 19th century when German Jews were escaping social and economic oppression.
In 1843, the Connecticut legislature granted Jews the right to worship freely. By the late 1880's, some 3,200 Jews had settled in New Haven and established several Orthodox synagogues.
From 1890 to 1924, New Haven experienced another wave of Jewish immigrants; most were refugees from Eastern Europe and Russia. Many of the newcomers settled in the Oak Street neighborhood bordering downtown, which became known as the Oak Street ghetto.
Mr. Teitelman's family was part of that second wave. They arrived from Ukraine in 1922 and his father opened a kosher meat market. The neighborhood was one of crowded tenements, kosher delicatessens, butchers, bakeries, luncheonettes, clothing stores and pushcarts. Bearded men and shawled women walked on the congested sidewalks.
"There were some Polish and Italian people living in the ghetto, but it was predominantly Jewish and the language of the streets was Yiddish," he recalled.
Inside Teitelman's Meat Market the floors were covered with sawdust to absorb the grease, and the walls lined with cutting blocks and meat hangers. "I rarely saw downtown New Haven," he says. "There was no need to. Everything we needed was right there."
Congregation Beth Israel, established in 1913 over a shop, thrived with the steady influx of immigrants. Twelve years later the synagogue on Orchard Street opened. The shul had columns crowned with acanthus-leafed capitals on either side of the main door, and rounded-arched windows on the side, reflecting the Colonial Revival style of the time.
Yet the architect also incorporated features reminiscent of Eastern European shuls, like the Moorish-style domes topping twin towers in the front of the building, a balcony overlooking the interior sanctuary where the women were seated, and a central raised platform in the sanctuary where the Torah was read.
In 1926, a synagogue women's group raised money to buy an Ark, where the Torah is kept. The synagogue's crystal chandeliers, bronze lamps and symbolic etchings made the synagogue the pride of the neighborhood.
But as the years went by and members prospered, they moved to other areas of the city or to the suburbs. Irish and Italian immigrants and African-Americans who had migrated from the South beginning in the early 1940's took their place.
In 1959, an urban renewal demolition effort began and it eventually razed the Oak Street neighborhood, including many of its synagogues. Today, passers-by see only a long urban meadow between the frontage roads extending the Oak Street Connector at York Street to Ella Grasso Boulevard.
Abraham Jochelman was not raised in the old neighborhood; he arrived in New Haven in 1967, long after the area's demise. Yet he is just as impassioned as Mr. Teitelman about preserving the Orchard Street shul. For centuries, Mr. Jochelman said his family lived in a town near Vilnius, Lithuania. During World War II his parents and two brothers, along with some 250 members of hisfamily, were murdered after Lithuanian soldiers rounded up 8,500 Jewish residents, marched them 30 miles east of the city, shot them and threw their bodies into mass graves. Mr. Jochelman, who was 20 at the time, said he was not shot but thrown into one of the graves and covered with dead bodies. He escaped that night along with his brother and some cousins.
"It was 1942, a very cold winter," he recalled tearfully while sitting at his kitchen table in the Westville section of New Haven. "We ran across a frozen river and through the woods. Farmers gave us food along the way. One hundred miles later we made it to my grandfather's."
Later he said he and his brother were forced into a ghetto where thousands of Jews were murdered along with gypsies and Italian prisoners of war. His brother died in the carnage, Mr. Jochelman said, but he managed to escape to Russia.
After the war he and his wife, Zoia, moved to Poland, then to Israel. In the late 60's they moved to New Haven. Historical records show that of the 250,000 Jews living in Lithuania at the beginning of the war, some 220,000 were murdered by Nazi forces.
In 1992, Mr. Jochelman returned to Vilnius for the first time since the war. He took along his granddaughter, he said, "because I wanted her to see how it was." They began their pilgrimage in Vilnius and drove 150 miles through 20 towns toward the Russian border. He showed a visitor a photograph of the two of them standing at a memorial, where his family was killed.
"When I was a boy all those towns we visited were Jewish and there were shuls in every one of them," he said. "Now most of the Jews have gone and I saw not one shul."
Upon returning to New Haven, Mr. Jochelman said he resolved to help save the old synagogue on Orchard Street. Not only does it resemble the Eastern European shuls he knew as a boy, he said, "it is also a symbol of the old people who came before us. We have to keep the shul alive to remember our fathers."
While most of the core members of the synagogue are in their 70's and 80's, a few younger men, who attended the synagogue as children, have recently renewed their memberships.
"They call me the kid," said Murray Trachten, a New Haven lawyer, who at 60 is one of the youngest members of the congregation. Raised a block and a half away on Greenwood Street, Mr. Trachten had his bar mitzvah at the shul and his father was a longtime member. Mr. Trachten recalled the day of his father's funeral in 1981 when the funeral car procession drove past the Orchard Street shul. "Someone inside turned on the lights to show respect," he recalled. "I'll never forget that."
Last October he returned to the synagogue for the 85th anniversary of the founding of the congregation. Around 200 people attended. It was the first time in years, Mr. Trachten said, he had stepped foot inside the building. As he stood on the platform in the sanctuary to make a speech, he said he couldn't believe what he saw.
"Absolutely nothing had changed since I was a boy," he said. "The platform and bimah table, even the cloth on the table, was intact. It was like walking into a time capsule."
He is part of the committee trying to decide the future of the synagogue. Like Mr. Teitelman and Mr. Jochelman, he is hoping to keep the building in its original state and under the control of the congregation, but admits that given the ages of most of the members it may be difficult.
Nevertheless he said, "I can't imagine New Haven without the Orchard Street shul. That would end a whole part of my life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On shelves are prayerbooks and texts, many in need of restoration. Only a few members of the congregation still live within walking distance. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. 7) From left, Samuel Teitelman, vice president, Lee Liberman, president, and Abraham Jochelman, trustee, of Congregation Beth Israel in New Haven. (Gale Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Congregation Beth Israel built the Orchard Street Syn-agogue in 1924. (Gale Zucker for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; SYNAGOGUES; CONGREGATION BETH ISRAEL (NEW HAVEN, CONN) JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HISTORY (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI SAM TEITELMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



301 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3081 words

HEADLINE: A South Bronx Very Different From the Cliche

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
FEW urban areas have ever had a worse image than the South Bronx in the 1970's, with hundreds of buildings abandoned, stripped, burned and rotting. The neighborhood became a synonym for disaster -- a warning, perhaps, of where cities might be heading.
That wasn't very long ago, but in parts of the South Bronx it seems like another century. Where surreal decals of flower boxes and window shades once adorned burned-out buildings, those derelict structures have been renovated and real people with real furnishings have moved in. The population is growing, not falling. Artists, antique stores and other businesses, symbols of growth rather than decay, are arriving. 
 South of 169th Street, in the part of the South Bronx closest to Manhattan, lie neighborhoods like Hunts Point, Mott Haven and Port Morris, areas that were particularly stricken by abandonment and crime. Now, many streets are unrecognizable.
Crime rates are significantly lower, and like many other urban areas, parts of the Bronx are beginning to be transformed. In the last 11 years, 57,000 units of housing have been built or rehabilitated in the borough as a whole.
While none of the residents would argue that no more improvements are needed, the ascent of these neighborhoods is all the more astonishing in the light of where they began. But the area's image has still not recovered, and people who work and live there say that visitors are still shocked at the extent of the revival.
On a two-block stretch of Bruckner Boulevard, a street infamously immortalized by Tom Wolfe in his novel "The Bonfire of the Vanities" as a threatening place, charming antique stores have been popping up, and above them, renovated apartments rent for $1,000 a month. The antique district also fills two blocks on adjoining Alexander Street, and with a zoning change last year allowing mixed commercial and residential uses, the value of the buildings, available just a few years ago for less than $50,000, has tripled.
Over in Hunts Point, new houses and apartment buildings have replaced the weeds that thrived in abandoned shells. On Manida Street, where two-story, century-old town houses with rounded facades survived the difficult years, a group of artists are living and working to create a vital cultural life, through the Point Community Development Corporation, at Manida and Garrison Streets.
In the next few months, the Point plans to take over 9,000 square feet of space in the nearby American Bank Note Building, a windowed structure on Garrison Street with large, open interior spaces and panoramic views of Manhattan. The space will be home to the dance troupe founded by Arthur Aviles, a modern dancer who performed for some years with Bill T. Jones. The Point also plans to begin renting studio space in the building to artists.
Within walking distance, a huge outpost of ABC Carpet and Home, one of the most stylish stores in Manhattan, doubled its space three months ago at 1055 Bronx River Avenue and began offering the same kind of merchandise sold at its other stores, luxurious sheets, antiques, and oriental rugs, but marked down between 30 and 90 percent. Some customers come from the South Bronx, but the vast majority drive in from Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey, lured by easy access from the Bruckner Expressway, the Bronx River Parkway or the Cross Bronx Expressway, and free parking.
Throughout the South Bronx, residential and commercial projects are being built; loan rates are more affordable in the economy as a whole, but even more important, banks are making loans at rates comparable to those in other regions.
"There was a risk penalty applied to people buying buildings in the Bronx," said Harvey Rottenberg, a partner in NYMC Capital Corporation in Manhattan, which lends money to businesses. Experienced investors in commercial properties and multifamily buildings could get money at competitive rates, he said, but many borrowers less experienced and less able to demonstrate stable cash flow were paying between one and five percentage points more on their loans.
More private money began flowing to the Bronx about two years ago, he said, when big national lenders looked at the borough without prejudice and realized it had strong occupancy, retail and transportation.
"Frankly, we're surprised by the amount of business we're seeing out of the Bronx," he said. In just one year, from 1997 to 1998, he said, his company's loans for investments in the Bronx rose by 400 percent. The flourishing of the South Bronx, he said, is part of the borough's overall economic improvement. In the South Bronx, he estimated, his company lent almost $10 million last year, for projects that included a live chicken market and a beverage distributorship.
There is so much activity that "it is hard to walk two blocks in either direction without seeing construction," said Neil Pariser, senior vice president of the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, known as Sobro. Groups that have renovated buildings taken over by the city for nonpayment of taxes are running out of opportunities for that kind of renewal, Mr. Pariser said. "It is now difficult to find a space to convert," he said. "You can't find a city-owned building that's vacant for rehab. We don't have tons of buildings anymore."
With new housing established or under construction, the focus is shifting to development of real estate for commercial and industrial purposes. Opportunities offered by the Bronx will be examined in a three-session seminar sponsored by the Steven L. Newman Real Estate Institute of Baruch College beginning March 16 at the college.
But many problems still remain in the South Bronx, including a higher than average unemployment rate and a lower than average income in most households. It is not in immediate danger of becoming a chic area. Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, who grew up in Hunts Point, jokes about the criticism from those who fear gentrification in any guise.
The people who have moved into the new buildings of the South Bronx, Mr. Ferrer said, "are not folks that can even remotely be described as the gentry." They are working people with household incomes of about $55,000, with one member employed as, perhaps, a secretary, and the other perhaps as a corrections officer, he said.
But the vitality in the South Bronx is so unmistakable, and the improvements so profound, that even though there is much to be done, people who never expected to return have been lured back.
PEOPLE like Majora Carter, who is in the process of acquiring the house on Manida Street where she now lives. Ms. Carter returned to the neighborhood where she grew up in 1995, when she was getting a master's degree in creative writing at New York University and found there wasn't enough money for rent in Manhattan and tuition. Because of the compatible people she found in the neighborhood, artists, writers and others with a lot of energy and optimism, she has decided to stay.
It was, she said, something she could never have anticipated. "The Bronx was burning," she said. "I didn't want to be here."
Also back is F. Maximo Soba, who works as a salesman in the furniture section at ABC while he studies historic preservation at Mechanics Institute in Manhattan. He never intended to return to a place with such unhappy memories, he said, a place where his mother suffered from drug addiction, contracted AIDS and died.
He fled as soon as he could, he said, moving to Manhattan, to Brooklyn, and eventually to Puerto Rico, where he ran a gallery and store selling antique Spanish furniture. When the roof literally caved in on the operation, he went back to his grandmother's home in the South Bronx three years ago, to regroup.
Like Ms. Carter, he found the area so changed he decided to stay, and last year moved into a town house floor-through on Manida Street with three bedrooms that rents for $750 a month -- a price, he said, that wouldn't even get him a studio in Manhattan.
Unlike some sections of Brooklyn, the South Bronx is not overflowing with elegant old brownstones awaiting upwardly mobile bargain hunters. Much of the housing originally constructed in the South Bronx consisted of five-story walkups. A lot of the new housing has been built with subsidies and is restricted to tenants with relatively low family incomes.
The vacancy rate in the South Bronx is very low. Apartments of any kind are hard to find and tend to be passed around by word of mouth, not advertising. But when they can be found, there are great bargains, such as floor-through apartments in charming old town houses, like Mr. Soba's, that on average rent for $750 a month.
There are hundreds of town houses, for instance, in Mott Haven between 134th and 144th Street, as well as on Alexander Avenue between 138th Street and 141st Street, many of them architecturally charming and just one subway stop north of Manhattan. But they are not frequently available for sale. Sid Miller, director of the Haven Heights Group, a real estate brokerage on East 138th Street in Mott Haven, said that many town-house residents show no interest in moving even though their properties are rising in value. This week, for instance, he closed on a deal for a brownstone on East 138th Street that sold for $155,000, a typical price for a house in relatively good condition with architectural details.
Mr. Miller began selling real estate in the South Bronx 10 years ago, he said, thinking it would be the next hot area. The influx he anticipated did not happen, in part because homeowners do not seem interested in leaving, despite the "scent of money," he said.
It is a comment often made about people who didn't flee the South Bronx in the 1970's: They have hung on, and they don't plan to go even if they have the means to do so. The Bronx is being restored primarily by the people who lived through the grim time when landlords were torching their own buildings for the insurance money.
"The Bronx at one point was ashes," said Delmas Vernon Cole, the assistant director of Nos Quedamos, which in Spanish means "We are staying." His group, which is building housing for middle-income people in the South Bronx, was created by residents who successfully fought a city plan in the early 1990's to bulldoze 35 blocks east of Yankee Stadium. "People stood up and created an organization," he said. "They decided to stay. That spirit alone is pulling up the South Bronx," The changes in the neighborhood are "incredible," Mr. Cole said, but they are not yet reflected in public perception. "I think it is starting to change," he said, "but when you say the South Bronx, it's still a very negative image."
For Mr. Cole, a lifelong South Bronx resident who received a bachelor's degree from New York University and a master's in urban planning from Harvard, it isn't just a place that nearly burned to the ground.
"I remember another Bronx," he said, "before the Cross Bronx Expressway. I remember beautiful neighborhoods where people knew everybody. It was an ethnically mixed and diverse neighborhood."
But then the massive highway construction that broke established communities apart helped spark a process of urban decay, Mr. Cole said, followed by a middle-class exodus to places like Co-op City, in the north Bronx, and the suburbs beyond. "By the end of the 70's you could walk six blocks in any direction and you wouldn't see a light. It was like being in a ghost town," he said.
Now that housing has been built, and filled, he said, the place needs the services that attract and keep the middle class, such as good garbage collection, good schools, good parks and good air.
A SMALL but appealing commercial strip lies around Bruckner and Alexander, in the southernmost part of the South Bronx, where antique dealers and artists have moved in. The first ones arrived about seven years ago, but more are coming all the time.
Sunny Tillery, who opened Tigris & Euphrates at 79 Alexander Street last June, said that business in her antiques store has been "fantastic." She imagines the area eventually being like Greenwich Village, or SoHo. "It has that potential and flavor," she said. To speed it along, she said, she hopes to open an Italian restaurant in her building. "People are looking for things to eat when they come over," she said.
Much of the development in the area has been pushed by Sobro, which plans to work next on the revitalization of the south side of Bruckner so it resembles the restored blocks on the north side. Annual commercial rents vary, but the average in that area is probably between $15 and $20 a square foot, Mr. Pariser said. "We need food," he said. "We need cafes. And I think we're going to have it."
Although it doesn't have any of the amenities of the Village or SoHo, the antique district does have a key advantage: It is incredibly geographically convenient. Although the expressways that were cut through the Bronx may have destabilized neighborhoods, they now make it easy for people to shop there. Denise Cruz, co-owner of the Custom Design Studio, an upholsterer that has been at 47 Bruckner Boulevard for four years, said that customers come from Westchester and Connecticut as well as Manhattan because transportation is so easy.
Paul Chapman, the senior executive vice president of ABC Carpet and Home, said that customers come to his store from everywhere in the region and that the South Bronx's central location could make it a fertile area for development by big outlet stores.
"I picture a Secaucus here," with its outlet stores, he said. Mr. Chapman, a native of the South Bronx, said that security is good in the area, and he is dismissive of those who fear crime there. "I've had more cars stolen in my New York location," he said.
As in other parts of the city, businesses benefit from a general drop in crime. Detective Robert Butler, a community affairs officer for the 41st Precinct, which includes Hunts Point and Longwood, said that both drugs and prostitution still exist, but less so.
"It's a lot better now than it used to be," Detective Butler said, better even than just two years ago.
The different feeling about crime shows up in all kinds of ways. Josephine Infante, executive director of the Hunts Point Economic Development Corporation, said that businesses in the area's industrial park never used to put signs out because they figured they would be stolen. Now, she said, "everyone puts out signs."
Just as the area around Bruckner and Alexander stands out as a retailing oasis, the enclave over at Hunt's Point is one of artistic ferment. It is drawing people who grew up in the neighborhood as well as people from outside.
Marsha Trattner, who teaches metal sculpture at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan and lives on the Lower East Side, was working on a sculpture at the Socrates Sculpture Park in Queens when she heard that the people at the Point were looking for artists to work on a sculpture garden at the Hunts Point Avenue subway stop on the No. 6 line. She built "Pipe Dreams" for them in a space at the Point, and after it was erected she decided to stay on, renting an outdoor studio space from the Point and offering blacksmithing workshops to children in the neighborhood.
She finds the place supportive and invigorating. "I have this automatic community here of people who have an interest in my work and are encouraging," she said.
She has talked to her artist friends about her work, but when she says she is working in the Bronx, she said, "they say, 'Oh, that's so far.' " It takes her about 50 minutes to get there from the Lower East Side, she said, but somehow, to people in Manhattan, the area is psychologically much farther away.
And in one way, she said, it is very different -- a way that is beneficial. "I feel like I've found a haven here," she said. "Partly, it is the actual cityscape up here. Things are more spread out. You have a sense of the sky. And there's so much excitement up here. People are hungry for invention."
THE Point recently bought its building from Max Blauner, who also owns the old American Bank Note Company building on Garrison Street between Tiffany and Barretto, which covers 365,000 square feet and is six stories at its tallest point. It is only half occupied, mainly by companies in the textile business. The Point and Mr. Blauner have nearly reached agreement for the Point to rent the 9,000 square feet, partly for Mr. Aviles's dance company and partly to be sublet to artists in increments of 400 square feet for $375 a month.
Paul Lipson, executive director of the Point, said he had also just received $12,000 in grants to develop a business plan to open a Latin jazz cafe and club at the corner of Garrison and Hunts Point Avenue, in a lovely building with a semicircular facade typical of the area. Since it began five years ago, the Point has nourished a number of business and artistic enterprises, including a theater, hip-hop classes and a partnership with the International Center of Photography that offers classes to local children and adults.
Still, progress in the amenities that make a neighborhood more than just housing can be tough, and is uneven.
Eddie Torres is the director of the visual arts program at the Longwood Art Project at 965 Longwood Avenue, between Beck and Kelly Streets, an area distinguished by a number of historic homes as well as a new Police Athletic League building. The center has been offering free working space to artists, and organizing shows, but financing has become too difficult to obtain, and people have been reluctant to travel to shows in the South Bronx.
The center's last exhibition in the space will start Feb. 27. Beginning in June, it will become a cyber gallery and will provide computers so local artists can make and show work on the Internet.
Luis A. Rivera, a Bronx native and a real estate lawyer with an office in the Throgs Neck section, said that young, upwardly mobile black and Hispanic residents, like their counterparts with other ethnic backgrounds, still gravitate to Manhattan, to neighborhoods like Chelsea.
The next step, Mr. Rivera said, is to make the South Bronx, so close to Manhattan, more appealing to a large range of people. The area's renewal, he said, has been mostly of the "meat and potatoes kind."
Now, he said, "life style and social opportunities have to catch up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Manida Street in Hunts Point, town houses have survived the difficult years. Paul Lipson, executive director of the Point Community Development Corporation. Sunny Tillery, owner of an antiques shop on Alexander Street, says business is "fantastic." Majora Carter returned to the South Bronx and recently bought a house on Manida Street. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1 ); Alexander Antiques, left, in South Bronx antique district. Marsha Trattner with her "Pipe Dreams" sculpture.
(Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABH (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ABC CARPET AND HOME AMERICAN BANK NOTE HOLOGRAPHICS INC (51%); ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABC CARPET AND HOME

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); DANCERS (75%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (75%); CRIME RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); TRENDS (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%); ZONING (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); DANCE COMPANIES (62%); DANCE (62%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



302 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Yelling 'Fire' in an Empty Voting Booth

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: WOODBRIDGE

 BODY:
Are you planning to vote in the fire district election on Saturday? If your answer is, "What election?" you are not alone.
"For fire elections you almost have to beg people to vote," said Martin Snyder, a retired Woodbridge firefighter. "I have no idea why. It's like the board of education. They don't turn out for them either." 
 Another little-known fact: in just 80 of the state's 566 municipalities there are 188 fire districts -- or autonomous governmental entities run by a board of five commissioners that impose taxes for fire protection. The fire districts draw up their own budgets, which, along with the election of commissioners, are put to voters on the third Saturday of every February. This year, that day is Feb. 20.
Historically, turnout for these elections has been about 3 to 5 percent of eligible voters, according to the Department of Community Affairs, even though the budgets can be in the millions of dollars.
In some areas like Bergen County, fire departments are mainly financed and run under the local government rather than in fire districts. Fire districts are more common in other areas, like Cape May County.
And in just one town, Woodbridge, in Middlesex County, there are nine fire districts, the highest number in any municipality in the state, said Roger Potts, chairman of the New Jersey Association of Fire Districts.
Last year, according to Mr. Snyder, who is also the president of District 1 here, only about 700 people voted.
The reasons cited for poor turnout are hardly surprising: a lack of awareness, apathy and the timing. After all, how many people want to slog to the polls on a Saturday in a month when the weather is at its worst?
A bill that addresses the problem has been introduced in the Assembly by Michael P. Carroll of Morristown. If it passes, elections for fire districts and boards of education will coincide with the general election in November.
But Assemblyman Carroll said he did not see much chance for passage, adding that one day it might become law as part of a larger drive for property tax reform. "It ticks off enough people," he said, referring to fire commissioners, "so it must be a good idea. But I would be surprised if it moved this year."
Fire districts came into existence as early as 1879 as a way of providing fire protection in sparsely developed areas, said Michael Pane, a Hightstown lawyer who is an expert on local government.
As time passed, municipal officials were happy to hand the expensive task of fire protection over to fire districts. This is especially true today under laws that put a limit on municipal expenditures, he said.
A municipality can create a fire district at the request of at least 5 percent of the registered voters, or 20 legal voters, whichever is greater, and can abolish it the same way. The local government has no control over a district's operation, even though it collects taxes for the district. The only oversight comes from the state Department of Community Affairs, which reviews fire district budgets as it does municipal budgets.
Having a fire district "spreads the political liability," Mr. Pane said. "The irate taxpayer, upset at the increased costs of government in the first place, gets to vote on the fire district budget, and since it is crafted by the district fire commission, the municipal governing body can say, 'We'd like to help, but we have no control.' "
The situation gives ammunition to those who, like Governor Whitman, argue that property tax bills are high because of too many layers of government.
Another disadvantage, Mr. Pane said, is that fragmentating firefighting services is inefficient. "I think that autonomy is always undesirable in terms of coordination and planning," he said.
But defenders say the districts provide efficient and cheap service.
"If town hall gets involved," Mr. Snyder said, "they might want to cut the department and you get less service."
At the end of a recent meeting -- which went unattended -- Mr. Snyder and the other commissioners said they had run the district economically, cutting the tax rate by one and a half cents per $100 in the assessed value of a house, from 37.87 cents last year to 36.04 cents this year. They have also realized savings, they said, through joint purchasing agreements with other districts for things like insurance and fuel.
Mr. Potts, a commissioner in South Brunswick, said the amount to be raised by taxation in his district this year was $527,000. The tax rate is three cents on $100, which means that the owner of a $150,000 house will pay a $30 fire tax, he said.
"That seems pretty reasonable for providing fire protection," he said . "I think people have felt the districts are operating efficiently."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Woodbridge has nine fire districts. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Turnout for a Woodbridge fire district meeting reflects disinterest in district elections. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FIRE DEPARTMENTS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE MARTIN SNYDER (80%); MICHAEL PANE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



303 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 15; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX;
Yuca Chips With Your Back Rub?

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL; Seth Kugel lives in Washington Heights. He is working on a guide to guessing what country your taxi driver is from.

 BODY:
CORPORATE mergers are all the rage these days, but what's in it for me? Mobil and Exxon get together, I'm buying the same gas at the same price. Bankers Trust combines with Deutsche Bank, I'm still paying a $1.50 surcharge at the A.T.M. Siebe and BTR join to form the world's largest maker of industrial controls and, well, it's been a long time since I bought any industrial controls.
By contrast, the Roy Rogers/Dunkin' Donuts/Pizza Hut hybrid in Times Square has real value added: a burger for me, deep-dish pepperoni for you, crullers for everyone! These fast-food grease meccas dot the urban landscape, from the Taco Bell/ Pizza Hut on 14th Street to the Baskin Robbins/Dunkin' Donuts on 181st. Since New Yorkers crave convenience, treasure their 12 weekly seconds of leisure time and thrive on multitasking, it's surprising more local business owners have not caught on. Here are 10 suggestions for merging other well-known Manhattan establishments. 
 1. Real Estate Broker/99-Cent Store: The most common emotion people feel in a real estate office is despair: after all, you've just signed the lease on a $2,400-a-month apartment with no sunlight, then tacked on $3,000 in broker's fees to the sleazeball who's been lying to you for months. What you need is a quick bargain to allay the financial panic: how great would it be to pick up some 99-cent duct tape and pizza cutters and be back on road to liquidity? New arrivals can say "Well, I'm paying $1,600 for a 200-square-foot studio, but the no-name laundry detergent in this city sure is cheap."
2. Papaya King/ Sleepy's Mattresses: The trade-off for a great, cheap meal at a Papaya King stand is that you have to eat it standing up, bumping elbows with some highly dubious characters. Would that hot dog with sauerkraut and Mango Delight not taste better while relaxing on a king-size Sealy Posturepedic?
3. Barnes & Noble/Equinox: What do you do in Barnes & Noble? Sit on the floor and read. What do you do in Equinox? Sit on a bike and wish you had something good to read. In the combined version, members could get in their workout while choosing the right book to get over a relationship, cook eggplant or learn Chilean history.
4. Berlitz Language Centers/La Caridad: The biggest complaint about foreign language classes is they don't give you real world experience. With Chino-Latino La Caridad Restaurant as the classroom setting, however, you're all set. The Asian-Cuban staff speaks English, Spanish and Chinese. Finish class, then practice ordering arroz con pollo in Mandarin.
5. Roman Catholic Church/Reform Judaism: With so many interfaith couples around the city, why not a citywide chain of interfaith houses of worship, where couples can travel together to pray? The primary economy of scale is that the organizations can share Old Testaments.
6. Art Gallery/Petland: New Yorkers may be sophisticated and trendy enough to appreciate the fine works displayed throughout SoHo and Chelsea. Still, there are those of us (including children under the age of 10, and me) who do not get it and never will. We hate going to art galleries, but might consider accompanying a loved one if we could play with the puppies. A tropical fish tank at the Guggenheim wouldn't be bad either.
7. Breakfast Vendors/Blockbuster: What's the worst part of renting a video? Finding time to return it. If you already stop by the super-convenient muffin-donut-bagel-selling guys who maniacally stir coffee as they man the sidewalks outside office buildings, imagine if you could just drop off your video as you picked up your breakfast. The stands also would have a reason to stay open in the afternoon, renting movies to people as they head home from work.
8. Great American Back Rub/Bodega: What could be more relaxing than a back rub at this citywide massage chain? Well, how about a back rub with your choice of snack foods at arm's reach. Feel the tension melt away while you satisfy a craving for papaya nectar and yuca chips.
9. Manhattan Car Tow Pound/Dr. Zizmor: Getting your car back after it has been towed is a stressful experience, liable to make even the most clear-skinned develop a pimple or two. Dr. Zizmor's dermatology clinic, famous for its subway ads, would do well by strategically placing its offices in areas of high breakout potential. Dr. Z might also want to consider a mobile office on the Lexington Avenue subway line.
10. Chinese Takeout/Film Processing Store: These two can save startup costs by sharing the back-lit photo displays: "Hey look, there's Uncle Nick in the Bahamas, right next to the House Special Lo Mein for $5.95!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%); TACO BELL CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (88%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); BOOKSTORES (87%); MERGERS (79%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INDUSTRIAL CONTROL & RELAY MFG (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); TRENDS (64%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



304 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Ms. Siegel, Mr. Brecher

 BODY:
Stephanie Lynn Siegel, the daughter of Dr. Sharon Siegel and Dr. Bernard Siegel of Malibu, Calif., is to be married this afternoon to David Joel Brecher, a son of Dana Brecher and Dr. Herman Brecher of Baltimore. Rabbi Joel Rembaum is to officiate at the Beverly Hills (Calif.) Hotel.
The bride, who is 31, will be known as Stephanie Siegel Brecher. She is a corporate counsel in Santa Clara, Calif., to the Bay Networks subsidiary of Northern Telecom, the telecommunications equipment manufacturer. She graduated from Princeton University and received a master's degree in international relations from the London School of Economics and Political Science. The bride also received a law degree from the University of California at Berkeley. 
 Her father, a pediatrician, is the president of the Community Medical Group in Calabasas, Calif. The bride's mother, a retired pediatrician, neonatologist and pediatric nephrologist, practiced in Canoga Park, Calif.
The bridegroom, 33, was until last month a senior litigation counsel in Washington at MCI Worldcom. He graduated from Duke University and received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
His mother is an employment coordinator at the Jewish Vocational Service in Baltimore. His father is an internist with the Northwest Primary Care Group in Baltimore; in 1997 and 1998, he was the president of the Baltimore County Medical Association. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); LITIGATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (55%); 

PERSON: SIEGEL, STEPHANIE LYNN (STEPHANIE LYNN SIEGEL BRECHER); BRECHER, DAVID JOEL STEPHANIE SIEGEL BRECHER (91%); BERNARD SIEGEL (55%); SHARON SIEGEL (55%); STEPHANIE LYNN SIEGEL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



305 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
Fast-Track Economy: A Rocky Global Road

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD 

 BODY:
IT dazzles the elite who gather annually atop the snowy hills of Davos and defies gravity in the canyons of Wall Street. But America's supercharged economy has become excessively lean and mean, according to a new book by Edward Luttwak.
In "Turbo Capitalism: Winners and Losers in the Global Economy" (Harper Collins, $26), Mr. Luttwak acknowledges that the American-led free market is creating lots of new wealth. But he argues that such an economy -- highly privatized, deregulated and in the midst of globalization -- also brings peril. 
 This unfettered American capitalism of the last decade doesn't travel well, he writes. Yet it is spreading to other countries, raising the specter of financial ruin, in Asia and elsewhere, or social unrest. At home, meanwhile, the turbocharged economy is moving too fast to pick up the poor or to reassure an anxious middle class. With the spread of downsizing, white-collar job security is vanishing, he writes, bringing some unpleasant cultural consequences. And the poor? They're going to prison.
The author, whose last book about economics was "The Endangered American Dream" (1994), is not the first person to worry in print about what some consider runaway capitalism. We've read before about the winner-take-all society, an alienated "flexible" work force and manic debt-fueled consumerism.
But Mr. Luttwak, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, has written an original, provocative book that takes up all these questions at once, and more. (When did you last read about the link between economic policy and the telling of dirty jokes?)
Mr. Luttwak believes that some form of "controlled" capitalism -- like the regulated and protected American economy that lasted from 1945 to the 1980's -- is a better choice for most of the world than the untethered variety that has held sway since the days of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher.
(There are exceptions, he says. He believes that post-Communist economies should be only lightly regulated, and while he laments "the criminalization of the Russian economy," he holds that it is part of "the natural evolution of the capitalist animal.") It is dangerous for the United States to globalize its mostly unregulated capitalism, he argues, because it is exported without the two distinctly American forces that balance its power at home: an aggressive and activist legal system and an enduring Calvinist tradition.
Bless those infamously "greedy" private lawyers, he says, for bringing lawsuits that oblige corporations to curb dangerous products and blatant discrimination in their ranks. Bless, too, the eager staff lawyers of the Government regulatory agencies that remain -- the tax bloodhounds, the securities-law enforcers, the antitrust troops. (Without taking a stand on the current Microsoft case, he argues that in other countries, a Bill Gates would not be answering antitrust accusations in court. Instead, he would be subsidized in Italy, protected in Japan and "a life peer in the House of Lords" in Britain.)
AND what is capitalism without Calvinism? Trouble, Mr. Luttwak writes, somewhat cynically.
In America, earned wealth is still viewed as a virtuous accomplishment, says the author, a native of Romania who was educated in Europe and the United States. But the rich, he says, know that they must not enjoy themselves too much. (Frequent seminars at Aspen are O.K.; frequent romps on the Riviera are not.) Limiting conspicuous consumption helps legitimize wealth, he says, and cuts down on envy and "its political and even violent expressions."
Calvinism, with its emphasis on self-reliance, also persuades the unsuccessful in America to blame themselves, not the system. In other nations, people tend to be less quiescent when a huge gap opens between rich and poor, he observes.
In the United States, the unfettered economy is creating breathtaking efficiencies, the author notes. But the "creative destruction" of outmoded industries is happening too quickly for all the displaced employees to be re-absorbed. It's a myth that the Microsofts and Intels of the world will create enough new jobs, he argues, even if all laid-off workers could be retrained for them.
Mr. Luttwak supplies statistics showing the widening gap between the nation's rich and poor, a theme he has struck before. For most Americans, wage increases are held in check in part because monetarism has become a religion in America, he argues, with central bankers playing God and any hint of inflation demonized.
His most provocative theory, a stretch but spun out engagingly, holds that our current ultra-free-market economy is creating an "illiberal democracy" in America: Displacing its economic resentment onto others, the middle class is clamoring for stricter laws and more severe prison sentences, including the death penalty. The rebellious (non-Calvinist) poor, he writes, are thus being conveniently locked away under harsh anti-drug laws. The increasingly anxious middle class is also embracing what he calls the new Calvinist "prohibitions" -- against overeating and other unhealthy pleasures, against flirting or telling off-color jokes in the office. Only shopping is safe from censure, he notes wryly.
Mr. Luttwak offers few solutions, but he does call for the return of some regulation.
"Corporations are not moral entities," he writes; "they exist to earn profits, and so it should be." But governments, he says, should temper capitalism "on behalf of the citizens they are supposed to equally represent."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TURBO-CAPITALISM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); LITIGATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); DOGS (64%); LAWYERS (63%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: STEAD, DEBORAH; LUTTWAK, EDWARD RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



306 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Big Stakes In On-Line Job Listings

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
N on-line help-wanted service, Hotjobs.com, had revenue of $4 million in all of 1998. Two weeks ago, the company managed to spend fully half of that in just 30 seconds.
That $2 million, spent on a Super Bowl commercial, was the company's attempt to add its name to the list of better-known on-line employment sites. But the gamble says as much about the industry as it does about Hotjobs itself: On-line recruiters are racing to become the Yahoo or Amazon.com of their field. 
 "The time for Internet recruiting is here and now," said Richard S. Johnson, chief executive and founder of Hotjobs. "This is our time to stand up and be counted."
The competitors are inspired by the high stakes. Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass., says help-wanted advertising on the Internet will rise from $105 million, or 1.3 percent of the print share, last year to $1.7 billion, or 19.8 percent, by 2003.
The leader is Monster.com, which in 1994 became one of the first on-line recruiting agencies. But two other services, Career Mosaic (www.careermosaic.com) and Career Path (careerpath.com) are close behind.
Thousands of other sites list jobs, too, including some devoted to specific careers. Web portals like Yahoo and content providers like C-Net are crowding into the business.
Newspaper classifieds provide the model, but with many added twists. On the Internet, employers generally pay the sites to list their openings, which candidates can search free. Job seekers can also post resumes for potential employers to peruse.
Among the advantages of Internet recruiting is global scope (though applicants can search by city or region). Job and resume listings can be updated almost instantaneously.
Job seekers say the Internet also gives them the best picture of the market for their skills. Steve Garcia, 37, of Medina, Ohio, decided last October to scan Monster.com, Headhunter.net and Salesseek.com. He plugged in his desired income, his skills and his preferred job locations.
He soon zeroed in on a job posted at Monster.com. Within two weeks, he came to terms with a real estate company called Real Select, where he now is a district sales manager.
Although on-line sites would not give success rates for placing job seekers, they point to their huge resume files as evidence of their popularity. And no longer are most of the job openings and candidates in high-technology areas. The larger sites offer jobs ranging from corporate management to entry-level positions at McDonald's.
Monster.com said that three years ago, 97 percent of its listings were in technology, compared with about half today. Its users are now split evenly between men and women, typically in their mid-30's and in mid-career, but fairly new to the Internet. "We're seeing newbie users come on like never before," said Jeff Taylor, chief executive of Monster.com.
Newspaper companies do not plan to concede defeat. Career Path is backed by eight of them, including the New York Times Company, the Washington Post Company, the Tribune Company, Knight-Ridder and Hearst. It gathers 300,000 job listings, primarily from its 83 member newspapers, and solicits on-line-only ads as well.
Career Path, in Los Angeles, has begun its own marketing campaign, led by full-page newspaper advertisements on Super Bowl Sunday and the following Monday. Stephen Ste. Marie, the company's chief executive, said it would spend $15 to $20 million in marketing this year, up from almost nothing during 1998. "This really is a watershed year," he said. "The stakes have gotten pretty high, pretty quickly."
Monster.com, of Maynard, Mass., owned by the recruiting agency TMP Worldwide, lists 175,000 jobs. Mr. Taylor said that in the two weeks after its own Super Bowl ad, the company received as many as 2,900 job searches a minute, up from a previous peak of 800.
He said that more than 20 newspapers have rejected print ads for Monster.com because it is competing with their help-wanted business. But even with the help of their Career Path site, Mr. Taylor said, the newspapers represent the past and his company the future. "This is not a re-purposed help-wanted ad being moved from place to place in the newspaper system," he said of Monster.com. "This is a new way to do business."
The sense of urgency among the sites is well-founded. Internet Profiles, a market research firm in Redwood City, Calif., reported that a 75 percent increase in traffic from 1997 to 1998 at the on-line help-wanted sites went mostly to the leaders.
A fear of being left behind motivated Hotjobs to place its Super Bowl ad, Mr. Johnson said. After the game, the site -- which lists about 17,000 jobs -- was so overwhelmed that many visitors were unable to enter it.
As a result, Mr. Johnson deemed the ad expense only a qualified success. "We disappointed a lot of people," he said. "But the traffic isn't tapering off."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from Hotjobs.com's commercial during the Super Bowl. "The time for Internet recruiting is here and now," the company's founder said.
 
Graphs: "Surfers Sought" show projected spending on on-line help-wanted advertising, in millions and projected spending for on-line help-wanted ads as a percentage of print spending, from and estimated 1998 to a projected 2003. (Source: Forrester Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (85%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONSTER.COM; CAREER MOSAIC; CAREER PATH MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (85%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSTER.COM; CAREER MOSAIC; CAREER PATH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ADVERTISING; CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; INDUSTRY PROFILES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SALES MANAGEMENT (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT RICHARD S JOHNSON (59%); JEFF TAYLOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



307 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Loretta J. Morris and Alexander L. Muromcew;
Nicholas-Applegate International Small Cap Growth Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
A WHITE porcelain cat sits atop Alexander L. Muromcew's computer in his San Diego office, overlooking the Pacific Ocean. "Its left paw is raised, which means good luck in making money," said Mr. Muromcew, co-manager and Asia specialist for the Nicholas-Applegate International Small Cap Growth fund. "Most Japanese businesses have one of these cats displayed somewhere in the store."
But there is probably more than good fortune at work in the track record forged by Mr. Muromcew (pronounced MURE-um-sev) and his co-manager, Loretta J. Morris, the fund's specialist for Europe. The fund's oldest shares, series I institutional, have returned 17.7 percent, annualized, from their offering date in 1993 through Feb. 5, compared with 7.2 percent for the average foreign stock fund, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. That makes the fund, with $149.6 million in assets, the top performer of the 157 foreign stock funds tracked by Morningstar over that period. 
 Ms. Morris and Mr. Muromcew are also co-managers for two other Nicholas-Applegate funds, International Core Growth and Worldwide Growth, which have handily beaten their peers over their histories, too.
Ms. Morris, 45, has managed International Small Cap Growth since its launch; Mr. Muromcew, 35, joined her in 1996. They lead a team of 10 other managers and analysts. Pilgrim America Capital recently said it was buying Nicholas-Applegate's fund business, but Nicholas-Applegate will keep running most of the funds, including those run by Ms. Morris and Mr. Muromcew, as subadviser, a common arrangement.
THE goal of the two co-managers is simple: to find companies that benefit from developments that produce industry-beating earnings growth. "We look for a positive change in a company and the sustainability of that change," Mr. Muromcew said. Such changes, he said, can include restructuring or new products, technologies, management and industry trends.
Neither co-manager uses formal price targets. "We sell a stock," Ms. Morris said, "when we've found a more compelling investment idea elsewhere in the world or when the fundamentals of the company we own have changed."
Still, the fund's portfolio turnover is a steep 130 percent, versus 68 percent for the average foreign stock fund. The portfolio has a high price-to-earnings multiple -- 33 -- but Ms. Morris and Mr. Muromcew said they were sensitive to the prices they pay. "We want to see relative strengths, like the stock outperforming the local markets, and that valuations make sense in terms of earnings growth," Ms. Morris said.
The biggest investments are in Japan (18 percent of the fund), Germany (16 percent), Britain (12 percent) and France (11 percent).
In Japan, Mr. Muromcew likes Fancl, which makes cosmetics from natural ingredients. He noticed the popularity of such products while walking through Tokyo on a research trip last December. "Even though the Japanese economy and personal spending are weak, you can find small entrepreneurial companies that target niche markets," he said. "These companies are able to identify opportunities better than bigger, more traditional firms."
He bought shares in December at 8,900 yen and predicts that Fancl will have annual earnings growth of 20 percent over the next three years. The shares closed at 13,400 yen on Friday, or 36 times analysts' earnings estimates of 373 yen for next year.
In Singapore, he likes Natsteel Electronics, a contract computer manufacturer and assembler that is benefiting from a surge in outsourcing. Companies like Apple Computer, Compaq Computer and Hewlett-Packard do design work and then contract production to Natsteel, he said. One catalyst of growth is the motherboards that Natsteel makes for Apple's new iMac computer.
Natsteel's earnings per share should climb 25 percent a year over three years, Mr. Muromcew said. The fund began buying shares last September at $2.82 (Singapore); they closed on Friday at $4.78 (Singapore), 23 times the consensus 1999 earnings estimate of 21 cents.
One attraction in Europe, Ms. Morris said, is the recent opening of two stock markets -- the Neurer Markt in Germany and the Nouveau Marche in France -- that attract high-growth companies. One of her favorite stocks on the Neurer Markt is Mobilcom, a German telecommunications company offering Internet access and cellular and fixed-line telephone services. It "is a direct beneficiary of subscriber growth in cellular," she said.
Because Internet access in Europe is not as extensive as in the United States, that business accounts for less than 5 percent of sales, but she expects it to increase to 15 to 20 percent in about two years. She expects earnings growth of 170 percent in 1999 and 48 percent in 2000.
The fund bought Mobilcom shares in April at 418 marks, or about 214 euros. The shares are now at 401 euros, or 53 times the 1999 consensus earnings estimate of 7.59 euros.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In picking stocks, the fund managers Alexander L. Muromcew and Loretta J. Morris look for companies that are undergoing positive, sustainable changes. They walked at the Embarcadero in San Diego. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Nicholas-Applegate International Small Cap Growth Fund"
Category: Foreign stock
Net assets: $149.6 million
Inception: December 1993
Co-managers: Loretta J. Morris (since December 1993) and Alexander L. Muromcew (since June 1996)
 
Minimum purchase (series A shares): $2,000 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 130%
Annualized return since inception (series I shares)*: 17.7%
Category average: 7.2%
 
*Available to financial advisers and institutions
 
Sector breakdown
 
Industrial cyclicals: 13.5%
Retail: 8.2%
Services: 33.4%
Technology: 21.4%
Other: 23.5%
 
Fees (series A shares)
Front-end load: 5.25%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.25%
Expense ratio: 1.96%
 
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); 4921 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (88%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NICHOLAS-APPLEGATE INTERNATIONAL SMALL CAP GROWTH FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); FANCL CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NICHOLAS-APPLEGATE INTERNATIONAL SMALL CAP GROWTH FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (88%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CATS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BONDS (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; MUROMCEW, ALEXANDER L; MORRIS, LORETTA J ALEXANDER L MUROMCEW (95%); LORETTA J MORRIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



308 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2688 words

HEADLINE: The Deal Still Rules

BYLINE: ByLAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
IT was a chilly Tuesday in January when Michael Birck, chief executive and co-founder of Tellabs Inc., found himself stuck at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. With snow piling up, he was hard pressed to make the 2 P.M. speech he was scheduled to give at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's annual technology conference in Phoenix.
Finally airborne, three hours late, Mr. Birck checked in with his secretary, Mary McShane. "Do you know what happened to the stock?" she asked. "We're up $9 a share." Phones were ringing off the hook at Tellabs headquarters in Lisle, Ill., with analysts and reporters asking for his whereabouts. 
 But it wasn't until Mr. Birck was cornered by a reporter at the conference that he learned why his stock shot up 20 percent that day. The reason, he was told matter-of-factly, was that Mr. Birck had been meeting with executives of Lucent Technologies to discuss a possible merger.
Mr. Birck denied the report. Tellabs was not then and is not now in talks with Lucent, he said in a recent interview, still annoyed. "It struck me as beyond bizarre, based totally on unsupported rumors," he said. "It's not healthy."
And he wasn't the only one who was upset. "I hate this market," said Robert Gensler, an analyst at T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore-based mutual fund company, which owns shares of Tellabs, a telecommunications equipment maker. "Fundamental analysis is completely out the window. I could start other rumors you'd like, but Lucent and Tellabs wouldn't be it."
While investors' love affair with Internet stocks has been the most torrid development on Wall Street the last few months, turning shareholders into paper millionaires overnight, lost is the fact that this decade's merger boom has been the true market mania of the 90's -- bigger, broader and more significant for investors and the economy alike. Indeed, the Internet hoopla itself is as much about deal making as it is about the stock market debuts of young "dot-com" companies.
The frenzied takeovers of the 1980's were often more dramatic -- hostile assaults by corporate raiders, whose maneuverings for support from institutional investors were chronicled as if they were movements in a ground war. But with the broadening of stock ownership by average Americans -- through mutual funds, stock portfolios, pensions and 401(k) plans -- and the pervasiveness of mergers in nearly every industry, few Americans are unaffected by today's merger wave.
Since January 1994, roughly the starting point of the decade's boom in deal making, $7.1 trillion in deals have been announced worldwide. Of the 50 biggest American companies, measured by market value at the start of that year, six have disappeared through mergers -- including Chrysler, Amoco and Nynex -- and three more will vanish if announced deals are completed. Those 50 companies have been involved in 4,190 mergers or acquisitions in the last five years, with a total value estimated at $1.4 trillion, according to the Securities Data Company, a provider of financial information in Newark.
No longer is it just sophisticated institutions that trade merger stocks actively. Now, with the 24-hour-a-day availability of detailed financial news and chatter on television or on line, everybody can play the game. And the slightest hint of an executive power chat can send stock prices soaring or tumbling, depending on whether investors love or hate the possible combination.
Many people who own shares in merging companies in the weeks, or even days, before an announced takeover are getting a rush not too different from that enjoyed by Internet stock players as some of their investments double or better, at least in the short term.
"People buy and sell stocks based on an expectation that everything is in play," said Steven Koch, co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Rumors can move the world with abandon."
As a result, investors are fast becoming takeover junkies.
"It's so sexy, everyone wants to be a part of it," said John Markese, president of the American Association of Individual Investors. "Part of the mind-set is any company could be a merger candidate. People have that in the back of their heads and use it almost as a wild card."
Consider Faith Van Voolen, a 55-year-old social worker in Syracuse, who, with her husband, Arthur, has been investing in stocks for years. The couple won't buy Internet companies because they are too risky, Mrs. Van Voolen said. But last year, 4 of the more than 20 blue-chip stocks in their portfolio -- the Exxon Corporation, the Mobil Corporation, Citicorp and Rubbermaid Inc. -- hooked up with partners. "The mergers of a decade ago didn't impact us all that much," she said. "But now it is something we think about all the time."
So much so that Mrs. Van Voolen and her husband have regular debates over breakfast about whether to keep the stocks of merged companies in their portfolio. She scans business talk shows and newspapers for any scrap of news and often talks with her broker and accountant about the merits of deals. And she worries, as any investor should, whether the combinations announced these days are a result of well-thought-out strategies or ill-conceived matchmaking. "We are really not sure how it will affect us in the long term," she said.
Stories like hers abound. Pete Kelley, a self-employed investor in Vermont with a portfolio worth about $150,000, recently bought shares of Infoseek, the Internet search-engine company, with the hope that the Walt Disney Company will buy the remaining 57 percent of Infoseek it does not already own.
"I would not have bought it if I didn't think it would be acquired," Mr. Kelley said.
Victoria Collins, a financial planner in Irvine, Calif., said buying shares once a deal has been announced is an integral part of the investing strategy she deploys for her clients. Currently, one of every four stocks in her clients' portfolios is involved in a merger, she said. "You are taking the chance that the deal could fall apart," she said. "But these are companies we'd want to own whether the deal falls apart or not."
Even Long-Term Capital Management, the hedge fund that was taken over by a consortium of investment banks last fall, played the merger game, albeit with disastrous results. It learned the hard way how risky betting on acquisitions could be, losing hundreds of millions when Tellabs backed out of a deal to buy the Ciena Corporation, another telecommunications equipment maker.
"Do I think that the merger wave is having a psychological impact? Yes," said Samuel Hayes, a professor of finance at the Harvard Business School. "The fingertips are sensitive to every single clue."
 
Takeovers Go Mainstream
In the 1980's, many takeovers were perceived as attacks, often on self-satisfied managements, by impatient and often greedy investors intent on squeezing costs to bolster the value of their shares.
Since then, mergers have undergone a makeover. Now they are just another tool in corporate America's kit, a tactic used either to increase earnings or to transform corporations into strong global competitors. Workers don't fear losing jobs, as they did a decade ago, because unemployment is low. And the sheer number of megadeals has inured investors to the surprise of yet another announcement in the Monday morning newspaper.
So it is not surprising that in recent months, market watchers have turned their attention elsewhere. According to Securities Data, January was a record month for domestic mergers in terms of dollar value -- $131 billion, including Vodafone Group's planned acquisition of Airtouch Communications for $60 billion and Lucent's proposed purchase of Ascend Communications for $20 billion. But few of the deals stirred the interest they might have only a few months ago -- unless, of course, they involved the Internet.
The same forces driving deals in other industries, however, are fueling consolidation among Internet companies. America Online started the wave last November when it agreed to acquire Netscape Communications for $4.2 billion. Several companies have announced acquisitions or partnerships since then. Yahoo, the leading portal company, agreed to acquire Geocities, the biggest collection of personal World Wide Web pages, for $3.6 billion in stock. Just last week, Lycos, another portal company, agreed to a merger with the electronic shopping units of USA Networks.
"Essentially what you have is Internet time at work," said Brad Koenig, co-head of global high technology at Goldman Sachs. "The landscape in existence this week is not the same landscape as last week."
Despite those dizzying combinations, Internet stocks are only a small part of the merger pie -- and even less of the total market. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter calculates the total value of the 77 companies it tracks in the Internet sector, excluding the $75 billion America Online, at $153 billion.
That pales next to the value of all domestic mergers last year: $1.6 trillion, or 11 percent of the total capitalization of the stock market. And because the number of publicly traded shares in Internet stocks is so limited, relatively few investors own them. Instead, much of the market fervor in the sector is driven by the frantic activity of day traders.
Not so with merger stocks over all. No one who invests broadly in the stock market -- particularly in mutual funds -- can escape playing the takeover game. At the end of last year, one of every three diversified American mutual funds owned at least five companies involved in the top 25 deals for 1998, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. And one of every 12 funds owned at least 15 companies involved in those mergers.
The public's fascination with Internet stocks has been fueled in large part by the unprecedented gains that some of them have recorded on the first day of trading -- a 163 percent gain by Ebay, for example, or the 119 percent rise of Geocities. But merger stocks are not without quick one-day gains of their own. Getchell Gold, a mining company, announced on Dec. 14 that it was being acquired by Placer Dome, and the stock jumped 72 percent that day. Shares in Fingerhut Companies, which announced Thursday that it would be acquired by Federated Department Stores, climbed 30 percent.
Investors who hold shares a few days before a deal is announced can often enjoy big premiums once it is completed -- sometimes doubling the value of their holdings, according to data compiled by Mergerstat, a division of Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, a Los Angeles investment bank. (Of course, if the deal is a stock swap, the announced premium -- the price above market value to be paid to shareholders -- can change significantly by the time the deal closes. And critics say that poorly managed mergers don't always deliver gains for investors in the long run. But those incredible first-day gains in Internet stocks can wane, too.)
The incessant merger activity can make managing money a guessing game, even for the best managers. Brian Stansky, manager of the T. Rowe Price Media and Telecommunications fund, plies his trade in the busiest of sectors for mergers. About 25 percent of the companies in his portfolio on Dec. 31 were either being acquired or acquiring other companies. An additional 25 percent were rumored to be in discussions.
"When things get caught up in a frenzy, you ask yourself, 'Does anything change?' " Mr. Stansky said. "When does the merger sentiment get out of hand, and when do you start taking chips off the table? We know our stocks are going to get bought. But by whom?"
 
Rumors at Warp Speed
Cyberspace is playing a leading role in democratizing a world once inhabited only by deal makers and sophisticated stock speculators. Rumors about deals used to be filtered by traders who, employing a network of sources, often were able to ferret out fact from fiction. Now, within minutes, rumors sprint from whispers at the water cooler to the status of ostensible facts on line. Deals are chronicled in the earliest of stages, and far less experienced people are trading without fear.
"You used to have to be an expert to hear about this stuff," said Karen Altfest, an investment adviser based in Manhattan. "It doesn't have the same mystique anymore."
That's partly because of Internet communication, but also because the media are eager to satiate investors' hunger for news. One investment banker who spoke on condition of anonymity described a morning last month when a company he advises was rumored to be in merger talks -- gossip that was unfounded. Regardless, within two hours, he got 10 phone calls from reporters eager to break the story. "You feel this crush of interest," the banker said.
Gary Parr, co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley, agreed. "What's changed is the real-time nature of information and wide distribution of rumors," Mr. Parr said. "If a rumor shows up on the Internet, for example, you have lots of people who can jump in and trade on that information. That wasn't always the case."
Consider the recent bidding war between Bell Atlantic and Vodafone for Airtouch, the wireless communications giant. On Dec. 7, one person in an on-line chat room noted that someone was buying 400,000-share chunks of Airtouch stock. Ten days later another chat-room denizen reported more of the same. "There is something moving the stock," this person wrote. "Maybe there is a deal percolating that we know nothing about."
Those comments were prescient; Airtouch was in talks, and indeed several large blocks of stock were traded in mid-December. Still, once word spread of the company's talks with Bell Atlantic, most of what was written in the chat rooms was unreliable. One participant speculated that MCI Worldcom was making a hostile offer of 1.4 Worldcom shares for every Airtouch share. (Worldcom never made such an offer, according to people close to the company.) Someone else wrote that Bell Atlantic had offered $100 a share in stock and cash -- also untrue. Ultimately, Vodafone increased its bid and won Airtouch.
"You can get real-time information, but a lot of it can be junk," said Tom Watson, an adjunct professor in new media at Columbia University. "It's like that old parlor game 'I've Got a Secret.' It gets passed around, and by the time it gets passed around to you, it is not accurate."
But it is not just investors who can be misled. Last year, Mr. Parr of Morgan Stanley, in a presentation to the board of an American company that was for sale, was reviewing a list of bids. After a quick rundown of all the offers, one director asked about a company with which Mr. Parr was not familiar. The director said he had seen a message on an Internet chat site stating that this company was offering $3 a share more than the best offer presented by Mr. Parr's team that day. Mr. Parr told him the company had never contacted Morgan Stanley or made a bid.
The exchange still gives Mr. Parr pause. "It really surprised us that that the Internet was where his information was coming from," he said.
 
Still Moving at Fever Pitch
The frenzy over deals is likely to continue, particularly if American stock markets remain buoyant and European merger activity explodes, as Wall Street experts expect. So the future could be filled with more chatter, more speculative trading and even more investors and executives shaking their heads, trying to make sense of the takeover game.
For his part, Mr. Birck of Tellabs was glad to see his stock pass $70 a share and stay in that range after rumors of a deal with Lucent faded. And he is happy to have Peter A. Guglielmi, his chief financial officer, back from an extended medical leave. Many analysts attribute the stock's recent bullish performance to Mr. Guglielmi's return.
Still, deal making is in the air, especially in his business, and Mr. Birck knows that more rumors are likely to swirl. So he employs an age-old strategy: "You just have to keep your head down," he said, "and ignore this stuff."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Faith and Arthur Van Voolen, investors who avoid risk, find mergers affecting even their blue-chip stocks. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times); Gary Parr at Morgan Stanley, below, sees markets dance to merger rumors on the Internet. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Merger mania showed its power to Michael Birck, the chief executive of Tellabs Inc., when a rumor that the company was in talks with Lucent Technologies pushed Tellabs stock up 20 percent in one day in January. "It struck me as beyond bizarre," he says. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Charts: "Let's Make a Deal"
Investors would have been hard pressed to avoid the impact of mergers and acquisitions over the last five years. Among them, the 50 American companies that had the biggest market value at the start of 1994 have been party to 4,190 deals, an average of about 84 a company. And nine of the corporate giants have been -- or are in the process of being -- absorbed into other companies themselves. Chart lists total deals since 1994 and ranking by market value Jan. 3, '94 and Feb.10, '99, for selected companies. (Sources: Securities Data; Standard & Poor's)
 
"The Payoff From Mergers"
Investors often enjoy big premiums when a company they own is acquired. Here are the top deals, ranked by the size of the premium, among all mergers and acquisitions last year involving American companies and valued at $1 billion or more. Chart lists the announced date, target/acquirer, value of deal as announced (billions) and the 5-day premium* (pg. 10)
 
*The percentage difference between the announced acquisition price and the market price of shares in the target company five days before the merger announcement. In stock deals, the actual premium collected by shareholders can change significantly by the time a deal is closed. (Source: Mergerstat, a division of Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin)(pg. 10)
 
"Where's The Frenzy?"
For all the hubbub about Internet stocks, mergers and acquisitions remain a much more significant market phenomenon.
 
Valuations of all Internet companies tracked by Morgan Stanley
Total: $228 billion as of Feb. 11, 1999
 
America Online $75 billion
Other Internet companies: $153 billion
 
Domestic merger and acquisition activity for 1998
Total: $1.6 trillion
 
(Sources: Securities Data; Morgan Stanley Dean Witter)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TLAB (NASDAQ) (94%); ALU (PAR) (84%); ALU (NYSE) (84%); ALU (BIT) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TELLABS INC (94%); TELLABS OY (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS AIRPORTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MERGERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); BONDS (68%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



309 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
How the Web Can Improve Corporate Underwriting

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
AS E-commerce begins to plow its way through the retail sector, and competes against shopping malls nationwide, so too is it starting to challenge the established norms of corporate finance.
For years, raising money for debt and equity offerings has been a hidebound -- and very profitable -- exercise for securities firms. But the rise of the Internet now offers issuers and buyers at least the potential to streamline the underwriting process. 
 William R. Hambrecht, the longtime Silicon Valley investment banker, has made a handsome living bankrolling the future. That said, his decision to introduce an on-line auction system for underwriting initial public stock offerings probably did not make him many friends on Wall Street.
Mr. Hambrecht, who now runs W. R. Hambrecht & Company, an investment banking boutique in San Francisco, took some time out from skiing in Sun Valley, Idaho, last week to talk about E-underwriting. He also offered some thoughts on the recent plunge in Internet stocks.
 
Q. What made you think this sort of system is necessary?
 
A. Over the last few years, we did a few offerings that really made me rethink the process and wonder if we were doing it right.
The first one was for Boston Beer, the company that makes Samuel Adams. Jim Koch, the head of Boston Beer, insisted that one-third of the offering be sold to his customers. So he put a label announcing the sale on his beer bottles. Within three weeks we had orders from 120,000 people.
After the offering was over, the company's chief financial officer agreed to track what happened to those people. Two and a half years later, half of those folks still owned the stock. I came away from that experience thinking that people who had a real natural affinity for the company were there.
The other lesson I learned was that conventional investment firms were not set up to handle that sort of volume. The more I worked with the Net, it convinced me it was a great tool to communicate. So I wanted to try to set up a system whereby the Internet could communicate with affinity groups for companies and do it in an efficient way.
 
Q. You seem to believe that a Dutch auction system, where the offering price is set by the underwriter at the highest price at which it can sell all the shares, will help prevent volatility. How will it do that?
 
A. The reason the Dutch auction will work is that it clears the inventory all at once and doesn't make any buyer who bids aggressively look dumb. The system will try to move the offering price closer to the market level, and in so doing discourage day traders.
 
Q. If this auction system caught on, wouldn't it change the economics of underwriting?
 
A. It will pare underwriting margins. But this is happening to every distribution channel via the Internet. To be honest, the real economics to the underwriter that will change are the trading commissions that come back from preferential accounts. If you give 10 percent of an offering to a good client, he is generally a pretty happy client.
 
Q. What has been the reaction on Wall Street to this idea?
 
A. Initially, most of the people I respect on Wall Street have reacted by asking, "Why are you doing this to us?" But most understand something like this is going to happen, and they are asking how they can work with us on this, because it is a more efficient way to do it.
 
Q. Speaking of efficiency, is that the way you would characterize the manner in which investors have repriced a lot of Internet stocks over the past month?
 
A. Internet stocks got way ahead of themselves. The Lycos-USA Networks deal reminded people that in the real world, market caps have to have some relationship to future value. To me, what has been going on is a very good thing, because a real price collapse could be very destructive, particularly in the initial public offering market.
 
Q. Most of these companies are still not making any money. Is it getting any easier to identify who the survivors will be?
 
A. Each month gives you more data as to who is getting there. You can see the numbers of people using the system, the quality of advertisers. And the E-commerce numbers are starting to show some things. Over the next year we should get a better idea.
 
Q. All of this interest in the Internet is coming at a time when the economy is still growing at a vigorous rate. What happens to these companies when it weakens?
 
A. My theory about software companies, and I think it will hold for Internet companies, is that there is not a lot of risk to them in cyclical turns in the economy. These companies don't have their capital tied up in fixed inventories; they have it tied up in cash. Yahoo, for example, has something like 700 employees and no fixed assets. They should be able to adjust to almost anything.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hambrecht

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (76%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WR HAMBRECHT & CO WR HAMBRECHT & CO LLC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: WR HAMBRECHT & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (76%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET & WWW (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SKIING (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; HAMBRECHT, WILLIAM R

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



310 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Remember Risk? It's Back in the Bond Market

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
SINCE last October, when the current stock market rally began, equity investors have set caution aside. They have a "buy now" mentality, based on their belief that the future will prove them right, and they prefer to ignore risks rather than chance missing a big rally. Sharp selloffs just re-enforce that behavior; after all, the downturns have regularly been followed by rapid recoveries.
The high-yield bond market, however, has been behaving differently. Investors there have decided to put a healthy dose of risk back into their market outlook. 
 In 1997 and early 1998, junk-bond investors were dismissing risk, just as their stock-buying brethren did, as they rushed to buy anything with a higher yield. They routinely ignored differences in credit quality, a fact that worried the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
But after the Russian ruble devaluation and bond default last year, risk popped back on the junk-bond radar screen, and the market did not bounce right back, as the stock market did.
For example, the spread, or difference, between the yield on a 10-year junk bond issued by Arcadia Financial and the comparable Treasury note dropped to 5.85 percentage points last June. Considering the difference in credit quality, the spread was not that wide, compared with the 3.05-point spread on a 10-year LTV Corporation junk bond over the Treasury. LTV, a steel manufacturer, is rated BB by Standard & Poor's, two notches higher than the B rating of Arcadia, an automobile loan-servicing company.
But since the autumn selloff, the pricing of Arcadia and LTV bonds has returned to more normal levels; a risk differential has been restored. At the low for the high-yield market in October, Arcadia was trading at a 14.58 percentage-point spread over Treasuries while the LTV spread was at 5.47 points. Now, the Arcadia spread is at 10.97, still more than two and a half times the 4.02 for LTV, according to data from KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier, Vt.
Kingman D. Penniman, the president of KDP, says investor caution means that there are still opportunities in high-yield bonds, despite the rally so far this year. His high-yield index is now 4.51 percentage points over the 10-year Treasury note, down from 6.25 points in October. But it is still above the 3.54-point average since 1992.
Two concerns have been holding back the high-yield bond market: investor worries about the strength of the economy and the fear of another global financial scare that would send investors running for cover in the United States Treasury market while every other bond market is sold off.
Mr. Penniman says that with 1999 economic growth looking stronger, the bigger restraint on the market is the fear of more global shocks. But since he expects this fear to wane, he adds that "it's a great time to be in high yield."
Jeffrey A. Koch, portfolio manager of the Strong High Yield fund, also sees opportunities in what he calls the middle tier of the high-yield market. These are the bonds, like those of Grove Worldwide, a crane manufacturer, and B. F. Saul REIT, which has an 80 percent stake in Chevy Chase Savings Bank, that were of decent credit quality but were sold off sharply in the fall and have not rebounded fully. He said the return of a premium for risk was making high yield attractive again.
HE is not sure, however, that everything is lined up for a great year. "Something like Brazil is going to happen," he said. "Or the economy will slow. Or new issuance will be so big that spreads will have to widen out. I think we will get a lot of periods of volatility."
But there is a way to deal with this volatility, he said. An investor can pick a promising company and stick with the bond; if the investor doesn't sell, the price fluctuations won't make a big difference over the long term. As Mr. Koch put it: "Stay invested and get the coupon."
The remaining question is whether the pause last week in the stock market -- with a 3.4 percent selloff in the Nasdaq, this year's best-performing stock index -- is a sign that equity investors may be beginning to see the risks that high-yield investors have been accounting for since last fall.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Playing the Spread" shows the spread of the KDP High Yield Daily Index over the yield of the 10-year Treasury note since October. (Source: KDP Investment Advisors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTV (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LTV CORP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (93%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); STATISTICS (87%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); TRENDS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); DEVALUATION (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



311 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Checking the Market's Arithmetic

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
WITH the Dow Jones industrial average confined to a fairly tight trading range for the last 30 days, investors may be starting to wonder where their bull market has gone. It hasn't helped that yields on Treasury bonds have jumped from 5.1 percent in mid-January to 5.42 percent on Friday. Since the Federal Reserve Board has let the bond market take the lead on interest rate policy in recent years, the move in yields may be a sign of higher interest rates in the months ahead -- never a plus for stocks.
To be sure, a month of lackluster stock prices does not mean the end of the bull run. And bond traders could be wrong about rates. Nevertheless, it may be a good time for investors to look at their expectations for stock returns. 
 Those expectations remain sky-high, thanks to years of outsized returns. A survey conducted by the IAI mutual fund group in 1995 asked 1,600 of its customers what they expected to reap annually on their holdings. Some 55 percent said they anticipated stocks to gain 15 percent or more each year.
Such pleasant fantasies have been reality for stocks during the four years since the survey. But historically speaking, those returns are high. According to Ibbotson Associates, stocks have returned 11.2 percent a year, on average, since 1926.
Yet expectations may now be even higher, given four years of 20-percent-plus stock gains. Does that mean investors are crazy?
Maybe. Christopher Orndorff, principal at Payden & Rygel, an investment firm in Los Angeles, has done some math to show why.
Mr. Orndorff did two analyses of where stocks might be 10 years from now. For the best case, he took the average annual return on stocks during the past 10 years -- 18 percent, including dividends -- and reprised it over the coming decade. He assumed that earnings would grow 6 percent a year (on the high side of performance during the recent past), and that inflation would stay low, at 2 percent. For the worst case he plugged a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.6 for the S.& P. 500 into his equations, the average during periods of low inflation. He also assumed a much lower, but not outlandish, earnings growth rate of 2 percent a year.
The conclusion? If stocks returned what they have for the past decade, the S.& P. would be trading at 48 times earnings in 2009, or 50 percent higher than the 32 times earnings for the index today. But if the p/e ratio reverted to normal levels in a low-inflation economy, stocks would return just 1.9 percent each year.
"We did this because we would occasionally hear clients make projections for the next 10 years," Mr. Orndorff said. "They didn't fully appreciate how truly extraordinary the last 10 years have been."
Nobody knows where stocks will be in 2009, of course. But looking in the rear-view mirror rarely reveals what lies ahead. After all, who would have guessed in 1989 that the Dow industrials would be more than 6,000 points higher in 10 years? Investors who now believe the decade's high stock returns will continue may be proven just as wrong.
"No sensible person can honestly say they expect the S.& P. to sell at 48 times earnings," said Peter J. Tanous, the president of Lynx Investment Advisory Inc. in Washington. "If they do, there's only one word for them -- and the word is delusional."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Higher and Higher" shows average price earnings ratio for the S.& P. 500 from 1990 through 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PAYDEN & RYGEL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN CHRISTOPHER ORNDORFF (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



312 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: VIEWPOINT;
Sky-High Stocks Breed Debt, Sowing the Seeds of a Slump

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
STOCK prices, as everyone has heard, are too high, overvalued, in bubble territory, vulnerable to a crash. Fair warning has been abundantly served. But fair warnings came in similar abundance before each of history's financial panics. And few people got out of the way in time. This column is a fresh contribution to the fair-warning literature -- a fresh appeal to beware of the growing addiction to stocks.
More than 24 percent of the nation's household wealth is now invested in stocks, up from 10 percent at the time of the 1987 crash. Rarely if ever has the Federal Reserve recorded a higher percentage. And many Americans believe that the economy must weaken for standard reasons -- rising unemployment, less consumption, a spike in oil prices -- before the market will react and fall. They do not see that the causal chain can run in reverse: A scare or panic collapses stock prices, and then the crash shrinks the economy. 
 "People think that scares to the market can't be sustained as long as the economy holds up," said Richard Curtin, director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan. "If prices drop, as they did last fall, the belief is they'll come right back up."
But more than ever, Americans are using the stocks they own to finance the spending that keeps the economy afloat. The harnessing of stock portfolios to this task, diluting the market's role as a repository of savings, is taking several forms, one of them evident in Cincinnati, among many other cities.
DRIVE out to the Fifth Third Bank's Madeira branch, near an affluent suburb, and talk to Dianna L. Grubenhoff, the branch manager, who has just been crowned by the bank as the "queen of loans" for making $17.9 million in home equity loans last year, more than at any other branch. The loans are going mainly to people with ever richer stock portfolios, Ms. Grubenhoff said.
These rich portfolios make the borrowers more creditworthy in the eyes of the bank. Rather than sell their stock and pay a capital gains tax, the borrowers prefer to take out home equity loans to pay for new cars, vacations, second homes, college tuition, new clothing. Wages that once went into savings now service the loans, the thinking being that rich stock portfolios already provide for a comfortable future retirement.
"The big jump in this sort of lending has come only in the last two years," Ms. Grubenhoff said.
If stock prices were to plunge, Fifth Third Bank anticipates that its borrowers would repay loans by selling stock and again put aside money to replenish savings. Contrary to accepted wisdom, the falling market, by extinguishing consumption, would definitely weaken the economy.
Visit, too, almost any Wall Street investment house, or the hundreds of banks that now make loans to people who deposit stock as collateral. These loans, once mainly a source of credit to buy more stock, are now widely available for any sort of consumer spending. The loans are often equal to a small enough percentage of the collateral that stock prices would have to decline by more than 20 percent before the lenders demanded repayment or sold the stock.
That almost happened last fall, when Russia's debt crisis panicked the market and the Dow Jones industrial average fell by nearly 20 percent before rebounding.
IN another growing practice, one that is hard to document, people are borrowing on their credit cards to invest in stocks. These gamblers count on rising stock prices to pay off the debt and yield a profit. "It is certainly a dangerous way to use credit card debt," said David Eyles, chief credit policy officer of Fleet Financial Group.
What no one has quantified is the role of the stock market in supporting the loans that finance the spending that keeps the economy strong. But Government data hint at the market's growing importance. With more than $500 billion in new home equity loans issued over the last two years, only 56 percent of the value of all household real estate is now unencumbered by debt, compared with 66 percent in the late 1980's.
The national savings rate, as measured by the Government, has declined to zero, meaning people are spending beyond their income. But that leaves out the stock market. Two new studies find that if capital gains from the sale of stock in recent months were added to family income -- a calculation the Government does not make -- then income would exceed expenditure by an ample amount. Huge sums from these stock sales are being channeled into down payments to buy homes, driving up home prices in the process, according to Kenneth Rosen, a business school economist at the University of California at Berkeley.
If stock prices collapse, he argues, housing will be hurt, too.
The Federal Reserve, of course, can again head off damage to the economy by lowering interest rates. The Fed did that last fall when lending started to dry up, and the stock market rebounded in response.
But how often can the Fed go to the well? There is only so much room between today's already fairly low interest rates and zero. Counting on further rate cuts to sustain growth in an economy increasingly dependent on high stock prices is a risky and dangerous game. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (68%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (85%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (68%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); BANK BRANCHES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TUITION FEES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS DIANNA L GRUBENHOFF (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



313 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Seeing China's Challenge Through a Cold War Lens

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

 BODY:
FOR anyone charting the rise of China, it has been a pretty scary couple of years.
In early 1997, the first reports surfaced that China's Communist Party leaders had set out to funnel money into Democratic political campaigns to buy influence. Then there was a stream of reports that Chinese rocket scientists had taken advantage of their American partners in the space-launch business to improve the accuracy of China's strategic nuclear arsenal. 
 Most recently, a bipartisan Congressional panel concluded in a 700-page classified report that Chinese agents had pilfered an array of sensitive American military technology over the last two decades, including, perhaps, the design secret of one of America's most sophisticated thermonuclear warheads, the W-88, which sits atop the Trident II missiles in American submarines.
It all seems to add up to an alarming picture of military modernization, coinciding with steadily expanding defense budgets to finance the purchase of new Russian warplanes, submarines and destroyers.
Is the China threat coming true?
The question betrays America's cold war legacy. China certainly intends to establish itself as a credible military power, one that can defend its national interests near its shores, whether that means fighting for its share of the oil resources of the South China Sea or asserting its sovereignty over Taiwan -- still separated from the mainland since Chiang Kai-Shek fled there with his army in 1949. But there is no evidence that China is seeking to compete with the United States as a global military power as the Soviet Union once did.
Some experts now argue that with the collapse of the Soviet Union, China is turning into America's foremost rival, arming itself for the day when it can kick the United States out of Asia and then lord it over Japan, Taiwan and the Southeast Asian nations.
These experts cite as evidence of China's hostility its missile tests and war games near Taiwan in 1995 and 1996; in response, American aircraft carriers were dispatched to deliver a pointed message to Beijing that military coercion would not be tolerated.
But others say America should relax about China and resist the cold war reflex, with every Chinese advance, to grab a shovel to dig that bomb shelter in the backyard.
James R. Schlesinger, onetime dean of the cold warriors as Secretary of Defense in the 1970's, says: "China is not going to be a world power in the existing period, and possibly never. They recognize it, and the last thing they want is to tangle with the United States."
Robert L. Suettinger, until recently the Central Intelligence Agency's senior analyst for Asia and now a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, agrees. The intelligence community consensus on China "doesn't add up to a threat," he says.
STILL, with the passing of the cold war, during which China and the United States had common interest in opposing Soviet adventurism in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, there is little today that anchors the American relationship with China. Hence President Clinton's difficulty in sustaining a policy of engagement in the face of each new report of dissident arrests, technological espionage and the missile buildup against Taiwan.
Whatever challenge China might pose in the future, it won't be anything like the danger once posed by Soviet divisions poised against Europe, by Soviet armadas in every ocean and thousands of Soviet nuclear warheads aimed at America.
While Moscow built a wall around its irrational economy, China has been busy building export markets, opening its economy and expanding personal freedom at home (up to a point). Having witnessed Japan's success, China's leaders believe that in the next century, national power will be measured by economic strength, not military.
Therefore, China is joining world institutions, not threatening them. Chinese exports are the engine of China's growth. They have given Beijing the same stake in peace and stability that every other nation has in the era of globalization.
Mr. Schlesinger says the danger of overindulging America's worst fears about China is that it might actually produce the hostile opponent that some Americans foresee. Get over it, he says.
TO experts like him, China's gradual military modernization is an inescapable outgrowth of national development. In this view, the disturbing record of Chinese espionage in the United States proves only that Beijing has been pursuing its own interests much as Taiwan, Egypt, Israel, Russia, France and Brazil all have, at the United States's expense.
Even that reality may not be so alarming. The roots of the Chinese espionage go back to the late 1970's, when China's leader, Deng Xiaoping, pressed American officials for technology to help China modernize. It is now known that he also hedged his bets by ordering China's spy agency to go after critical technologies through the back door. Much of the effort, however, was bungled or detected by American intelligence.
And anyway, for all of China's illicit acquisitions, the Chinese military stubbornly refuses to improve.
John Culver, the C.I.A.'s military expert on China, told a National Defense University forum last year that China's army "is still largely the same force it was at the time the U.S.S.R. collapsed," and that "it is still overwhelmingly a ground army with an inventory of weapons that, in most cases, has been deployed with the same units for up to 30 years."
Even with new Russian jet fighters, submarines, destroyers and a whole array of new missiles, Mr. Culver argued, the Chinese army has created only a few "pockets of modernity" and has failed to alter the military balance with Taiwan.
On average, Chinese pilots fly far fewer training hours than those in any modern air force. The Chinese navy and air force are facing obsolescence of their Soviet-era warplanes and warships.
Two Stanford University researchers, John W. Lewis and Xue Litai, report in a new study that by 1990, half of the aircraft in the Chinese air force were not operational. Even with new Russian purchases, Chinese air power hardly exists.
Yet the risk of confrontation remains. Since 1960, China has fought border wars with India, the Soviet Union and Vietnam. The borders with those countries are now quiet, but Taiwan looms as an unresolved conflict where both sides see sovereign interests at stake.
If Taiwan declared its independence tomorrow, or if Beijing issued an ultimatum for Taiwan's reunification with the motherland, a new crisis could erupt.
The debate over China is only going to get louder as the 2000 Presidential election season approaches. Both Republican and Democratic strategists see China policy as a rallying point for voters concerned about human rights, religious freedom and the proliferation of Chinese nuclear and missile technologies to unstable regions.
A huge factor is China itself, where repression remains a dominant feature of the security apparatus, and where some military leaders wear their chauvinism like a battle ribbon.
Since Woodrow Wilson's time, Americans have insisted that their foreign policy reflect moral values, and China continues to rub America the wrong way. Ten years after the Tiananmen massacres, polls show that Americans, by a roughly two-thirds majority, are still inclined to think the worst of China.
Mr. Schlesinger is among those who are inclined the other way, which may seem strange for an old cold warrior. China, he says, should not become America's "designated enemy." The Chinese still look to America to help them overcome the daunting challenges of rebuilding backward industries, managing scarce resources, alleviating poverty and environmental degradation.
"It would be self-defeating as well as a negation of the magnanimity of the United States," he says, "to presuppose that China must turn into a hostile nation."
China could still turn hostile, says Mr. Schlesinger. But if it does, he adds, it would be best if America were not the cause.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers in Tiananmen Square. China's military is trying to modernize; the question is whether that's cause for alarm. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); TAIWAN (93%); ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (75%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); TAIWAN (93%); ASIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (75%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E CHIANG KAI-SHEK (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



314 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: OFFICE POLITICS;
The Presidency Is Still There, Not Quite the Same

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN the end, it was not so much the evidence that saved him, and certainly not his awesome communications skills. It was not even the economy.
It was his office. 
 While almost every member of Congress says that William Jefferson Clinton cheapened his Presidency, a critical mass of Senators chose not to follow his example by casting a vote they believed would diminish the Presidency.
On neither charge, not perjury nor obstruction of justice, did a majority agree with Representative James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, who told the Senate: "To keep a President in office whose gross misconduct and criminal actions are a well-established fact will weaken the authority of the Presidency, undermine the rule of law, and cheapen those words which have made America different from most other nations on Earth: Equal Justice Under Law."
Instead, the Senate seemed more taken with the argument of the President's lawyers: "These kinds of wrongs are simply not subjects fit for impeachment. To remove a President on this basis would lower the impeachment bar to an unprecedented level and create a devastating precedent."
The Senate seemed to conclude that their former colleague, Dale Bumpers, had it right when, speaking for the President, he told them: "If you vote to convict, in my opinion, you're going to create more havoc than he could ever possibly create. After all, he's only got two more years left."
Even so, the Presidency is a weaker office today than it was on Jan. 20, 1993, when Mr. Clinton first assumed it. A series of judicial decisions, provoked by the relentlessness of his enemies and by a short-sighted Clinton defense that considered only him, and not the office he held, have undercut the immunity from ordinary legal processes that he and his predecessors assumed they possessed.
The most dramatic change came in May 1997, when the Supreme Court ruled that a sitting President was not immune from a civil lawsuit like Paula Jones's. It held, among other things, that a lawsuit would be "highly unlikely to occupy any substantial amount" of the President's time.
The breathtaking naivete of that conclusion is only part of the problem, though it is hard to imagine that the next President and successors will not find enemies clever enough to file pleadings, demand discovery and take depositions.
The bigger problem for some future President is that the language of the opinion suggested, in the opinion of Professor Ronald D. Rotunda of the University of Illinois Law School, "that the Constitution provides no bar to the indictment, trial and conviction of a sitting President for a Federal crime." Mr. Rotunda is an adviser to Kenneth W. Starr, the Independent Counsel, and his opinion has apparently convinced Mr. Starr of the constitutionality of indicting Mr. Clinton any time at all, though it may not have convinced him it would be the wise thing to do.
That case went to the Supreme Court because the President would not include an apology as part of a settlement. That same sort of doggedness, sometimes by Mr. Clinton and sometimes by Mr. Starr, provoked other court rulings that may make the lives of future Presidents riskier and their connections to their advisers less frank.
Mr. Starr, seeking evidence that Mr. Clinton was alone with Monica S. Lewinsky or perhaps even observed in flagrante with her, subpoenaed Secret Service agents despite intense arguments from the service that making its agents potential witnesses would make Presidents less willing to keep them close. Congress may someday legislate a protective privilege and undo the court decision upholding Mr. Starr, but was the information he sought worth the risk?
Similarly Mr. Clinton, by interposing a string of losing objections to testimony by his aides, forced a clarification of the law of executive privilege that has to make it harder for future Presidents to keep secrets from Congress -- the body against which that privilege is typically cited. This points toward what Douglas Brinkley, a Carter biographer at the University of New Orleans, calls the potential "glass house effect -- treating the President as not a human being, where everything they think or dream or mutter is fair game."
BEYOND those hard legal facts, there are no certainties about how this case will affect the office Mr. Clinton holds. Charles O. Jones, a retired political scientist from the University of Wisconsin, said that is so because it is difficult to separate Mr. Clinton personally from the office he holds. "If that had been easy to do," Mr. Jones said, "he might well have been gone."
But, Mr. Jones said, "if what has gone on is more about Clinton than the Presidency, then the long-term effects may not be great." Others, like Arthur Schlesinger Jr., a historian retired from the City University of New York, feel that a cheapened impeachment, even without a conviction, will leave a wounded, weakened Presidency behind.
Because politics in Washington is not a zero-sum game, a weakened Presidency is possible without some other institution seizing its power. Certainly Congress, which used the weakness of Nixon facing impeachment and then Nixon's resignation to gain strength, has neither the prestige nor the agenda to do anything similar today.
But there are also ways in which the Presidency could become stronger. First, the Independent Counsel law is all but certain to lapse this year. Mr. Starr is only one poster boy for the concept of a prosecutor with an unlimited budget and a single target; the counsels who hounded Mike Espy and Henry Cisneros will help make the case against renewal.
Another major uncertainty, one whose impact on future Presidents is incalculable, is what lessons both parties draw from this episode of the politics of intense personal attack.
Nelson Polsby, a political scientist at the University of California at Berkeley, notes that a series of ABC News Polls show an astonishing share of voters, about 1 in 10, are prepared to punish Representatives and Senators for pro-impeachment votes.
He sees that as a harbinger of a stunning Republican defeat in 2000 (when only a modest defeat would cost the party the House.) He suggests that result could cause the Republicans to abandon the "bad habits" of destructive campaigning that they have used in the House for a decade.
Alan Brinkley, a Columbia historian (and no relation to Douglas), has no such optimism. "The scorched earth destruction of opponents has become the norm of our political life," he said, and the Supreme Court in the Jones decision "mapped out a strategy for the enemies of any President to get after him." Rather, he fears that the Democrats will now make destruction the "norm" of their tactics to get even with the Republicans.
In the lawyers' arguments, and in the Senators' speeches, there was a sense of foreboding over the impeachment verdict, about how the wrong result would threaten the nation's central institution, the Presidency. It often seemed that arguments that perjury would damage Americans' faith in their leaders and their rule of law reflected a very short memory; Presidential lies about Vietnam, not under oath to be sure, had a lot more impact on the lives and deaths of Americans than anything Mr. Clinton may have said about sex and how to conceal it. Even so, now the test will be whether the accusers were right that alleged perjury gone unpunished will shake the Republic.
As to the Presidency, it survived Harding and Hoover, even Buchanan and Nixon. Fred Greenstein, a Presidential scholar at Princeton, observed, "The institutions of American government are much more resilient and elastic than we usually realize."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION IMPEACHMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); DEPOSITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); ETHICS (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); IMMUNITY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLYMER, ADAM; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



315 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Making Tons of Money and Fords, Too

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WAYNE, Mich.

 BODY:
TWO weeks ago, the Ford Motor Company agreed to pay $6.5 billion for the car operations of Volvo of Sweden. Last week, Ford hinted that it might also be interested in buying Germany's BMW -- and with more than $17 billion in cash remaining in the company kitty, Ford can easily afford it.
How did Ford, which is known for its plebeian, low-profit Escorts and Tauruses, accumulate wealth on a scale not seen since Japanese companies were buying up American real estate in the 1980's? A big part of the answer lies in this gritty industrial suburb west of Detroit, home to what appears to be the world's most profitable factory in any industry. 
 The Michigan Truck Plant here used to make full-sized Ford pickup trucks, a good business. Now it manufactures the Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator, both full-sized sport utility vehicles -- a great business. With factory profits approaching those of the entire Chrysler Corporation in all of 1997, this plant is earning enough money every 34 months to pay for the entire Volvo deal, which included four assembly plants, two engine factories and an engineering center, as well as Volvo's world-famous brand name.
The $36,000 Expedition and $45,000 Navigator are essentially Ford pickups under the sheet metal but with much longer cabs and three rows of seats. They cost only a few thousand dollars more to make than the pickups, yet sell for an extra $10,000 to $20,000. Financial analysts estimate that Ford, which has already recovered all of its modest costs for developing the vehicles, now earns a profit of about $12,000 on each Expedition and $15,000 on each Navigator.
With that kind of money at stake, the work here never stops. Three crews of workers put in 10-hour shifts around the clock. Six days a week, the bright yellow conveyor belt clanks through the building, carrying the gray shells of sport utility vehicles past rows of 10-foot-tall white robot welders and dozens of crews. The equipment repairs, maintenance and adjustments that take all night and much of the weekend at many auto factories are done in two-hour bursts of feverish activity between shifts and on Sundays.
When a blizzard clogged southeastern Michigan roads last month and stranded 5,000 people at Detroit's airport, Ford diverted shipments of scarce engines and axles from other factories to make sure the assembly line here stayed on schedule. The highly motivated workers, who earn up to $100,000 a year including overtime, showed up in full strength at the factory even when state police officials were urging anyone who did not have a medical emergency to stay home. The factory did not lose an hour of production to the snowstorm, said Michael McCarney, the plant manager.
ALL this activity cranks out an incredible number of vehicles -- about 245,000 Expeditions and 48,000 Navigators a year or approximately 1,040 sport utilities a day. That works out to about $3.7 billion in pretax profits, and about $2.4 billion in after-tax profits, on annual sales of almost $11 billion.
While Ford has 53 assembly plants worldwide, the one here accounted for a third of the company's total profits last year. By comparison, there were only 54 companies in the world that earned more than this factory in all of 1997, the most recent year available, according to the annual Fortune global 500. Many of them, like State Farm Insurance and Wal-Mart, do not have factories. The rest, like Intel and the General Electric Company, earn more modest profits from each of many different factories and other businesses.
Not surprisingly, Ford's stock has soared. It has produced a total return on investment of 215 percent since the Expedition was introduced in October 1996, compared with an 85 percent return for the Standard & Poor's index of 500 large stocks. Ford's stock has also climbed because it has cut costs by improving productivity, part of a national trend in corporate America over the last few years.
Full-sized sport utility vehicles are highly profitable because demand for the gas guzzlers far outstrips supply at a time when gasoline prices are the lowest ever, adjusting for inflation. When gas prices fell in the mid-1980's, Ford also earned large profits from a car factory near here that made full-sized Lincoln cars. But tight fuel-economy regulations prevent auto makers from making cars bigger now; instead they build large light trucks, which are subject to less stringent rules.
Foreign competition is also negligible in the full-sized sport utility vehicle market, a fact that helps to keep prices high. Since 1964 the United States has imposed a 25 percent tax on imported pickup trucks; until the Bush Administration, this tax also applied to imported sport utility vehicles. Europe and East Asia have prohibitively high gasoline prices and tiny parking spaces, so there is little demand overseas for gargantuan sport utility vehicles.
Only in the last several years have foreign auto makers begun designing huge light trucks just for the American market. Honda and Nissan are working on new models while Toyota, which already sells small numbers of Land Cruisers and Lexus LX470's, has just built a factory in Indiana that will manufacture full-sized pickup trucks this year and begin making a new, full-sized sport utility vehicle version next year.
Ford's immensely profitable plant may not go unrivaled for long -- Ford plans to start selling a bigger sport utility vehicle next fall. The vehicle, which will probably be called the Excursion, will be built in Louisville, Ky., as a variation of an industrial-size pickup already in production there. Two feet longer than an Expedition or Navigator and nearly a foot longer than a Chevrolet Suburban, the Excursion will be the world's largest family vehicle and also one of the most profitable.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Ford's Michigan Truck Plant, sport utility vehicle bodies are stored and retrieved automatically. (Kyle J. Keener for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (93%); BMW (BIT) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); VOLV.B (STO) (92%); VOLV.A (STO) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); AB VOLVO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: WAYNE (MICH); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; OVERTIME; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); OVERTIME (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); WORKPLACE MORALE (62%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH LINCOLN NAVIGATOR (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



316 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: The Real Nightmare Remains

BYLINE: By Gary Hart; Gary Hart, the former Democratic Senator from Colorado, is the author, most recently, of "The Minuteman."

DATELINE: KITTREDGE, Colo.

 BODY:
Since the same forces that produced our national nightmare are all still at work -- an independent inquisitor as a fourth branch of government, a 1960's-inspired battle over the bounds of private morality, the co-optation of the political parties by cultural forces, the expansion of press "scrutiny" into public officials' private lives and, it must be said, the frailty, error and some would say sinfulness of human beings -- it is premature to hope the nightmare is over.
So long as these conditions exist, our society will continue to devour its leadership. Many Americans are angry right now because they believe that neither the President nor his prosecutors and defenders have placed the national interest above personal and partisan interests. Though some insist on judging the President on how he manages his personal life, history will judge him on how he has -- or has not -- helped manage Russia's transition to democracy, reformed the military or prepared the nation for the next, inevitable energy crisis. 
 The intense focus on private morality comes at the expense of focusing on public morality. Sex is more intriguing, more tractable, more commercially rewarding than an issue like hungry children or homeless youths or inadequate health care for the elderly or global warming -- or any other symptoms of our warped social priorities.
It is also distressing that talented Americans reject public service because it means running the gantlet of hazing now required of candidates and of nominees for appointive office. Added to the corrupting influence of campaign fund-raising and the absence of civility in the public forum, the evisceration of private lives is too much to ask people of stature and dignity to accept. We may be on our way to having a corps of public officials whose sexual report cards are spotless but who accept millions in special interest campaign money and callously neglect the needs of the poorest among us.
In an effort to combat excessive intrusiveness, some prospective candidates for national office, including Senator John McCain and Gov. George Bush, have recently let it be known that they will refuse to answer certain personal questions. As some of us know, however, this is no assurance against surreptitious surveillance or media feeding frenzies.
The First Amendment gives no one the license to use the "character issue" to destroy character. Character is demonstrated over a lifetime, and nowhere more tellingly than in a public official's willingness to put principle above career, even if that principle is to say, "It's none of your business."
It will be decades, if ever, before we fully understand the public's response to the impeachment drama, especially the disparity between the President's favorable job rating and the substantially lower level of public trust in him.
Some say it is simply a reflection of a booming economy. But I think the American people may be saying, We know the difference between what is interesting and entertaining -- public officials' personal lives -- and what is important -- our children's future.
Our society has been forced to confront paradox: the paradox of public leadership and private fallibility, the paradox of cultural conservatism and personal individualism. We are a people who historically have found our paradoxes -- slavery among them -- difficult to resolve.
There is no amount of "scrutiny" that can penetrate the complexities of relationships, the layers of personality, the tangle of public duty and personal flaw, the awful, complex, fragile thing called the human heart.
We can only hope now for a society mature enough to understand that genuine morality is about more than sex, that fidelity is not simply a sexual term, that a leader can be sexually pure but lack public morality, that qualities of duty, honor and courage can be demonstrated by fallible human beings.
Once we know these things, we can dismiss the "independent" inquisitors, we can demand that news organizations report more prominently and more faithfully on the public's business, and we can, once more, welcome our most talented citizens into public service. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); ELDER HEALTH (51%); AGING (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



317 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Using Phony Numbers to Push for Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Just how high are taxes?
Very high and rising rapidly, according to statistics being used by senators pushing for big tax cuts. 
 "Taxes are at their highest level since World War II," wrote Senators Paul Coverdell and Robert Torricelli in an Op-Ed article in this newspaper last week. "In 1997, the median income for a two-earner family was $55,000, $22,000 of which went to pay Federal, state and local taxes. Adjusted for inflation, that is triple the burden it was in 1955. In other words, families would have had $13,000 more in annual income had the tax burden remained constant."
Is all that true? The short answer is no. Some of it is accurate, some badly distorted. The paragraph does a much better job of illustrating how statistics can be abused than it does of shedding light on tax burdens.
There is no doubt that tax collections have risen faster, on an overall basis, than anyone expected. In fiscal 1998 total Federal tax and fee receipts were 20.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, up from 18.4 percent in 1994 and the highest since 1944, when the figure was 20.9 percent. Thus the first sentence quoted above is accurate.
Why did tax receipts go up so rapidly? It was not due to changes in the law. The last big tax increase was passed in 1993 and was completely in place in 1994. The 1997 tax act actually cut taxes for many, particularly families with children. The answer is that the strong economy has increased tax receipts, and soaring stock prices have pushed up capital gains and the taxes paid on them. That surge explains the current budget surplus.
But how has that median-income family done? The Senators' staffs say they relied on a study by the Tax Foundation, a Washington-based research organization. But that study is questionable. Moreover, the Senators distort its conclusions.
The study assumes that all money taken in by the Federal, state and local governments came from individuals, whether payments were made by people, companies or even ranchers who were not paying taxes but simply leasing Government land to let their cattle graze. But while adding in taxes that people do not pay to their tax burden, the study does not make similar adjustments to income.
Consider one example. The study allocates corporate income tax payments to shareholders as if they had paid the taxes out of their own pockets. In fact, the taxes allocated to any shareholder are far greater than the dividends that shareholder received. People who own a lot of stock would be shown as paying taxes far in excess of their income.
Is that fair? "It would be an exaggeration," conceded J. D. Foster, the Tax Foundation's executive director and chief economist, adding that he had never considered the issue.
Nor do the Tax Foundation's income figures include capital gains. But the tax-payment numbers do.
One adjustment the Tax Foundation does make in calculating the tax burden is to add to income the Social Security tax paid by employers. That is proper, but it was ignored by the Senators when they quoted the median income figure for a two-earner family of $55,000, which does not include the Social Security tax, and the tax burden of $22,000, which does.
Even worse is the Senators' statement that the tax burden has tripled. That is based on the Tax Foundation's conclusion that a median family in 1955 paid $8,000 in taxes, adjusted for inflation. Triple that and you get, more or less, $22,000.
The Tax Foundation, to its credit, made no such statement. By its calculations, the tax burden for such a family in 1955 was 27.9 percent, compared with 37.6 percent in 1997. That is an increase, but it is far from a tripling. The latest figure, by the way, is virtually unchanged from the 1985 level.
How do the Senators defend their numbers? Aides to Senator Coverdell referred queries to Senator Torricelli, whose spokeswoman said the numbers were justified by the Tax Foundation report.
Just why 1955 is a good comparison year is not clear. But if one wants to use it, remember that since then the Government has increased Social Security benefits substantially and begun the Medicare system. People in 1955 who were helping to support aging parents might have preferred the 1999 system.
The question of whether taxes should be cut when the Government is running a boom-induced surplus is a complicated one. Using dubious numbers does not help the debate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TAX FOUNDATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAX FOUNDATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; COVERDELL, PAUL (SEN); TORRICELLI, ROBERT (SEN) PAUL DOUGLAS COVERDELL (73%); ROBERT G TORRICELLI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



318 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: American Food for Iran

 BODY:
Twenty years after Ayatollah Khomeini's Islamic revolution, a spirit of moderation is growing among Iran's people and political leaders. That has created an opportunity for repairing relations with the United States that the Clinton Administration has been usefully exploring for more than a year. A recent Iranian request to purchase large amounts of American grains and sugar offers a timely and appropriate way to advance this reconciliation.
America's relations with Iran have been icy since radical students seized Washington's Teheran Embassy in 1979 and held diplomats hostage there for 444 days. Anti-American clerics remain a powerful and repressive force in Iran's politics. But for millions of Iranians, personal freedom and interchange with the outside world are more compelling goals than theological purity. 
 In 1997, Iranians overwhelmingly elected a moderate cleric, Mohammad Khatami, as President. Iran's Constitution gives him only limited powers and he has faced fierce resistance from the ruling clergy. But Mr. Khatami has skillfully used his popularity to expand his influence. Last week he forced an overdue housecleaning of top officials at the Intelligence Ministry. The agency has sponsored international terrorism in the past and acknowledged that its agents directed the recent murders of leading liberal intellectuals in Teheran.
Iran has long been a grain importer and the United States used to be a major source of its supplies. But since American export restrictions were tightened in the early 1990's, Teheran has turned to Australia and New Zealand for most of its imported grain. Last September, an American trading company acting on behalf of Iran requested a waiver of American export controls to buy almost 3 million tons of grain and 400,000 tons of sugar.
Iran's economy has been hobbled by low oil prices and Mr. Khatami's popularity could be threatened by continued privation. Large American grain exports would assure the Government ample supplies of wheat to sell at subsidized prices, thus showing that Mr. Khatami's more moderate foreign policy can pay domestic dividends.
Better relations with Iran could provide Washington with an important regional counterweight to Saddam Hussein. But the Administration has rightly set three conditions for a full return to normal relations. Teheran must abandon its nuclear and other unconventional weapons programs, refrain from sponsoring terrorism and not interfere with Mideast peace efforts between Israel and Arab leaders. On the last two points, at least, there has been progress. America should proceed cautiously with Iran. But when there is an opportunity to reward and encourage moderation without incurring serious risks, as in the case of the food sales, Washington should seize it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); IRAN (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: TEHERAN EMBASSY (86%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEHERAN EMBASSY (86%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); IRAN (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM RELIGION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); AGRICULTURE (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



319 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
A New Harvard Classic?

 BODY:
Today's college students, horrified by the corporate bloodletting of the 1980's and early 90's, have set their ambitions higher than working for a good company: They now want to own the company. That is the premise of the Harvard Entrepreneurs Club's "Guide to Starting Your Own Business," edited by Poonam Sharma, that is just now hitting the bookstores. "We're afraid of being replaceable," said Ms. Sharma, a Harvard senior. She is not above chiding her generation for impatience -- saying too many young people yearn to be overnight millionaires -- but she believes that those willing to put in 5 to 10 years in the trenches will be the corporate chiefs of tomorrow. 
 Who does she admire most in the business world? She names Michael Bloomberg, founder of Bloomberg L.P. and author of her book's foreword, "because of his ability to bounce back" after a setback in investment banking; Bill Gates, because he admonishes college students not to drop out, and, most of all, her father, Amba P. Sharma, owner of Brothers Mechanical Inc., a Long Island contractor. The proverbial penniless immigrant who made it in America, Mr. Sharma and his wife used to make their business affairs the focus of dinner conversations. As a teen-ager, Ms. Sharma remembers asking him questions like, "Did you get that in writing, Daddy?" and "Why can't you take 51 percent instead of 49?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Poonam Sharma

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY BLOOMBERG LP (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WRITERS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BOOKSTORES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: SHARMA, POONAM BILL GATES (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



320 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Business Best Sellers

 BODY:

HARDCOVER
 
This Month / Last Month 

1+ / -- LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $21.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
2+ / 1 THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
3+ / -- THE MOTLEY FOOL'S RULE BREAKERS, RULE MAKERS by David and Tom Gardner (Simon & Schuster, $25). Principles for picking stocks.
4 / 8 THE ROARING 2000's by Harry S. Dent Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $25). Building wealth during the coming economic boom.
5 / 9 THE CRISIS OF GLOBAL CAPITALISM by George Soros (Public Affairs, $26). An analysis of the power and perils of a global economy, by the billionaire investor.
6 / 3 THE JOY OF WORK by Scott Adams (Harper Business, $22). A send-up of popular corporate management guides.
7+ / -- PUSHING THE ENVELOPE by Harvey MacKay (Ballantine, $24.95). The motivational business speaker offers practical advice on hiring, motivating, training and negotiating.
8+ / --WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). A management expert offers techniques for dealing with change in the workplace and in life.
9 / 6 EAT THE RICH by P. J. O'Rourke (Atlantic Monthly, $24). The satirist tackles popular economic theories.
10* / -- THE MILLENNIUM BUG: How to Survive the Coming Chaos by Michael S. Hyatt (Regnery, $24.95). The Year 2000 computer crisis and how it affects global banking and other industries.
 
PAPERBACK
 
This Month / Last Month
 
1+ / 2 A CIVIL ACTION by Jonathan Harr (Vintage, $13). A nonfiction account of a lawsuit brought by Massachusetts homeowners against industrial polluters.
2 / 3 NUMBERED ACCOUNT by Christopher Reich (Dell, $7.99). A novel about a young man who joins the Swiss banking world in an effort to find his father's murderer.
3 / 1 DON'T SWEAT THE SMALL STUFF AT WORK by Richard Carlson (Hyperion, $11.95). Easing stress from heavy workloads and rush deadlines.
4+ / 4 THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
5 / -- THE ERNST & YOUNG TAX GUIDE 1999 edited by Peter W. Bernstein (Wiley, $15.95). Latest edition of the annual tax preparation manual.
6* / -- J. K. LASSER'S YOUR INCOME TAX 1999 by the J. K. Lasser Institute (Macmillan, $14.95). Latest edition of the annual tax preparation manual.
 
Rankings are based on January figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); J K LASSER INSTITUTE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: J K LASSER INSTITUTE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND MAGAZINES; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RETAILERS (82%); BOOKSTORES (79%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); WORKPLACE STRESS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (63%); LITIGATION (63%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (63%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



321 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: February 8-12;
Bonds Hammered by Words From Japan

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
An announcement by the Bank of Japan on Friday -- that it would not increase its bond purchases -- led to plunging prices and rising yields for United States Treasuries. The 30-year bond yield climbed to 5.42 per-cent, up 7 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, from a week earlier. Japanese investors are the biggest international holders of American debt.
 The turmoil in the bond market spilled over to the stock market. One reason is that higher rates make it more expensive for companies to borrow money for expansion -- and that hurts stock prices. Another is that if bond yields go high enough, they tend to lure income-oriented investors away from stocks. 
 But that was only the first part of a one-two punch for American stocks. The technology sector was the second. It powered the Nasdaq composite index to a record 96-point gain on Thursday, only to retreat on Friday. The index tumbled 83.66 points, or 3.5 percent, to 2,321.89, down 51.73 for the week. A disappointing fore-cast for Dell Computer's earnings set off the slide. The Dow industrials slipped 29.35 for the week, to 9,274.89.
 Overseas markets were mixed. Stocks rose in London and Tokyo, but indexes in Frankfurt and Paris were down in late trading.
 JAN M. ROSEN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Stocks in the News"
Lycos
nnm: lcos
The Internet search engine is to be acquired by USA Networks, which is headed by Barry Diller and which will use it to enhance home shopping and other on-line bus-iness. But the premium being paid is small.
Friday's Close: $99.50
Week'S Change-: 27.37%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Entremed
nnm: enmd
Bristol-Myers Squibb said it would stop developing the biotechnology com-pany's anti-cancer drug, and shares fell. Then the National Cancer Institute replicated key company experiments, and the shares doubled.
Friday's Close: $21.125
Week'S Change-: 16.75%
EST. '98 P/E: N.A.
 
Express Scripts
nnm: esrx
The prescription-plan manager is buying a unit of SmithKline Beecham P.L.C. that will make it more competitive with larger rivals. It will add big managed-care cus-tomers, including Kaiser Permanente.
Friday's Close: $67.625
Week'S Change: +9.29%
EST. '98 P/E: 52.63
 
Philip Morris
nyse: mo
Tobacco stocks fell after a California smoker won $1.5 million in compen-satory damages. In addition to Philip Morris, shares of Loews, RJR Nabisco Holdings and UST also declined, as a result of the lawsuit.
Friday's Close: $40.4375
Week'S Change-: 12.33%
EST. '99 P/E: 12.15
 
British Sky B'casting
nyse: bsy (a.d.r.'s)
The company, Britain's leading pay-TV company and Europe's second-biggest satellite broad-caster, said its new dig-ital service won 350,000 new subscribers between Oct. 1 and Jan. 31, exceeding forecasts.
Friday's Close: $49.1875
Week'S Change: +18.17%
EST. '99 P/E: 49.19
 
Blue Rhino
nnm:rino
The company, which contracts with indepen-dent distributors to ser-vice and deliver propane tanks, said it would restate first-quarter results, to show a loss of 1 cent a share. It had reported a 5-cent profit.
Friday's Close: $13.625
Week'S Change: -26.35%
EST. '99 P/E: 27.84
 
Alba-Waldensian
amex: aws
Clyde Engle, the chair-man of the women's apparel company, and two other officers were accused in a suit filed by Illinois regulators of having looted more than $70 million from Coronet Insurance.
Friday's Close: $20.25
Week'S Change: -6.90%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Eastbrokers Int'l
nnm: east (a.d.r.'s)
The largest shareholder of the investment bank and brokerage, Wolfgang M. Kossner, bought 526,884 shares through his Austrian conglomerate, General Partners A.G., giving him control of a third of the company.
Friday's Close: $7.00
Week'S Change: +12.00%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (50%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



322 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Jordanians Hope Condolences Turn Into Tangible Aid

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Feb. 13

 BODY:
After a week that brought the death of King Hussein and the crowning of his son as successor, Jordanians are hoping that the overwhelming solidarity shown in response to their trauma will prove to be more than passing.
In the sadness prompted by the King's death, world leaders and fellow members of the Hashemite family alike have pledged support for King Abdullah, first at Monday's vast state funeral and then in days of mourning that followed. 
 But what is important now, Jordanians and diplomats in the region say, is that those pledges be made tangible. Jordan is now led by a 37-year-old ruler who has little experience of power, while a heavy debt burden has cast a shadow over a hoped-for economic revival, and tensions within the royal family still have the prospect to become a troublesome distraction.
"King Abdullah is on more solid ground than his father was in 1952," a former Jordanian Cabinet Minister said, in a reference to the year that King Hussein took power, at a time of turmoil in the Arab world. "But it's certainly shaky in some respects."
Another former Minister offered this assessment when asked about the young man who was thrust into his position as next in line to the throne only in the final weeks of his father's life: "He's not incapable. But he needs plenty of counsel and advice, and he's also going to need some outside help."
By nearly every account, where Jordan is most vulnerable is in its economy, already suffering from high unemployment, low growth, and facing more than $8 billion in debt, an amount greater than its gross domestic product.
There had been worries that nervousness over King Hussein's death could set off a crippling run on Jordan's currency, the dinar. For now, an American promise to speed payments of millions of dollars in economic aid to the kingdom appears to have averted that danger, said diplomats in the region.
But the diplomats say that Jordan, an important stabilizing force in the Middle East, remains in urgent need of relief -- perhaps through the rescheduling of hundreds of millions of dollars in debt owed this year to Japan and Europe, or, preferably, through forgiveness, a step embraced by the United States in 1994, when it wiped away $700 million in Jordanian debt.
Another hope that has been rekindled in Jordan is the prospect that Saudi Arabia or Kuwait might revive old generosities. Before the Persian Gulf war of 1991, those countries provided both aid and employment to Jordan, but both streams were all but eliminated as punishment for King Hussein's tilt to Iraq.
At the time of the funeral and afterward, Saudi and Kuwaiti leaders have spoken of Jordan with fresh warmth. Diplomats in the region are watching closely to see if those remarks translate into any fresh sharing of wealth, although the Persian Gulf states may be less giving now because of depressed oil prices and their own economic troubles.
A more distant but no less troublesome challenge for Jordan could come in relations with the Palestinians. On Friday, the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in a surprise move, offered what he portrayed as a goodwill gesture to King Abdullah, saying that the Palestinians would welcome a future confederation with Jordan.
Such an arrangement could bring economic benefits, but it might also carry political problems for Jordan, whose population already includes a large Palestinian majority. If a confederation were forged, Jordanians would become a much smaller minority, something that could add to the prospect of internal instability.
In Jordan itself, what many citizens have been watching most intently is a drama unfolding in the royal family, which is still recovering from the shock of King Hussein's decision last month to dismiss his brother, Hassan, as Crown Prince, and to replace him with Abdullah, King Hussein's eldest son, who became King last Sunday.
It was very much noticed that Prince Hassan did not join King Abdullah on Tuesday in receiving mourners on the day after the state funeral, and that when he did appear in public, he did not wear a kaffiyeh, the traditional sign of mourning that was worn all week by Abdullah and King Hussein's other four sons.
The next day, Prince Hassan did stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the new King, and he pledged in a public letter to his nephew, "I will not hold back love, or knowledge or support." In a separate show of unity, King Hussein's widow, Queen Noor, received female mourners alongside not only Princess Rania, King Abdullah's wife, but also Princess Muna, the King's British-born mother, whom Hussein divorced in 1971.
But associates of Prince Hassan say he remains bitter at his removal just two weeks before he himself would have become King, and at a lack of sympathy shown by the Jordanian people, many of whom turned against him after his dismissal. And as evidence of trouble within the family, Jordanians close to the royal court pointed out that neither Prince Hassan's wife, Princess Sarvath, nor their three daughters had joined other members of the royal family at King Hussein's bedside as the monarch lay dying.
Linking Jordan's personal and practical problems is the fact that Prince Hassan had come to be seen by many Jordanians and foreign investors as a figure capable of putting Jordan's economy on firmer footing.
There remain rumors that Prince Hassan, 51, might leave the country, as his father, King Talal, did in 1952 after being forced to cede the throne to Hussein. His associates say that is unlikely; they say he feels no animosity toward either King Abdullah or the Crown Prince, Hamzah, 18, who is Queen Noor's eldest son, and feels bound to Jordan by duty and family ties. But they say he is having a difficult time adjusting to the idea of playing a peripheral role in a country he served for 34 years as the King's closest adviser and confidant.
During his reign, King Hussein installed a new prime minister on the average of once every 11 months, and diplomats say they expect King Abdullah to move soon to install his own prime minister, as a sign that a new era has begun. But such a move is not likely, they say, until after a 40-day mourning period ends, in mid-March.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: King Abdullah, shown last March with his father, Hussein, must allay concerns about the struggling economy and divisions in the royal family. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (75%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; JORDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (75%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); DESERT STORM (60%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE OF JORDAN); JEHL, DOUGLAS KING HUSSEIN (95%); KING ABDULLAH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



323 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Filling Special Needs Of Minority Patients

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: SAVANNAH, Ga.

 BODY:
Dr. Debbie Davis recently burst into an examining room of the Westside Urban Health Center on the ragged stretch of Bay Street, about four miles west along the Savannah River from the historic district's cobblestones and serene Colonial squares.
"Let me get my hug," she told Mary Gray, 73, a retired mental home housemother who beamed and threw out her arms. 
 "Thank you for my Christmas present," Dr. Davis said.
Pulling up her stool, squeezing her patient's knee, Dr. Davis asked "What is it today?"
"Rashes," said Ms. Gray, who has some hypertension and arthritis chronically.
The doctor examined the rash on Ms. Gray's arms, declared it hives, then moved to other issues. "Your blood pressure looks fabulous," Dr. Davis said. "Your weight is O.K. You're looking good."
The doctor made Ms. Gray an appointment for a pap smear. "For the rashes," Dr. Davis said, "we'll go with the shot, the salve and the pill."
Debbie Phoenix-Davis, M.D., 38, is an exuberant but harried pioneer in minority and indigent medicine.
Like many poor urban neighborhoods and rural communities, those served by the three Westside Urban Health Center clinics are short of doctors, black or white. There are few African-American doctors relative to the nation's black population.
Nationally, in a population that is 13 percent black, less than 4 percent of all doctors are black. In Savannah, where more than 50 percent of the 137,000 residents are black, 30 of 540 physicians are black, or less than 6 percent.
Lately, the disparities have stirred concern among advocates of African-Americans, as well as historically black medical schools like Morehouse, especially in the face of new research showing disparities in the health of black and white Americans.
Whatever the reasons -- physiological, cultural, behavioral, economic -- blacks have shorter productive lives than whites and experience more prostate cancer, strokes, heart disease, AIDS and obesity and deaths from breast cancer.
Part of the cure, experts say, is in recruiting more black doctors like Dr. Davis, who will combine their medical skills and their knowledge of the special concerns of blacks and use them to improve the health of black people.
Time spent with Dr. Davis demonstrates the rapport that can develop when a doctor has experiences similar to those of her patients. She understands the way they live, the flaws in their diets and the financial constraints that sometimes make health care a low priority. And the patients say they relate to her and find her easy to talk to.
"We're not taking the position that the problem of African-Americans need be solved only by having more black physicians," said Dr. Louis Sullivan, the president of Morehouse, who was Secretary of Health and Human Services in the Bush Administration. "A white physician can be just as effective." But Dr. Sullivan said familiarity with patients' race and heritage led to better care.
"It's knowing what questions to ask," Dr. Sullivan said. "It's knowing that if you prescribe a $50 medicine, the patient might not have the funds. And it's trust, communication, things that affect compliance. Coming back to the doctor when they should. Taking medicine when they should."
Dr. Jeffrey Taylor, 48, a white colleague of Dr. Davis who was raised on Long Island, said, "I don't have any discomfort about racial or cultural differences." He has spent his career in impoverished black communities. An unabashed admirer of Dr. Davis, Dr. Taylor added, "But I wouldn't say there aren't insights I lack because I'm white."
Dr. Davis rose from this largely black neighborhood of housing projects to become student body president at Savannah High School and graduate fourth in her class of 400. With scholarships and loans she went on to graduate from Emory University and the Morehouse School of Medicine. Seven years ago, the mother of two, Dr. Davis returned to serve the neighborhood.
"We have one black surgeon in Savannah," Dr. Davis said, "no black nephrologist, one black gastroenterologist, two black pediatricians, both women, no black dermatologists."
One of the things dermatologists tell blacks is not to put oil in their hair, she said. "You can't tell a black person not to put oil in your hair. Black hair can be brittle. Without oil our hair breaks off."
She recounted the case of a teen-age girl who came in wearing a hat, her skull scoured by ringworm. Her dermatologist had told her to shampoo daily and leave out the oil. But oil and daily shampoos, Dr. Davis said, have no effect on ringworm, a fungus. She prescribed antifungal pills, and the ringworm cleared up.
A visit in one of Dr. Davis's examining rooms is an occasion to chat about family members, and for the many who share her Christian faith, a moment to celebrate the healing powers of the Lord. An ordained Pentacostal minister, Dr. Davis jokes that she dispenses "Gospills" and writes "prescriptures."
Clinics like those where Dr. Davis works are straining these days as the number of the uninsured people grows, to more than 43 million now, according to the Census Bureau, about 12 million more than a decade ago, and as the cost-control vise of managed care forces hospitals to cut back on charity care.
In Savannah, the poor, the uninsured and the underinsured can turn to the Westside clinics, which, with the support of Federal and Chatham County subsidies, charge $12 a visit and nothing at all to penniless patients. The Westside safety net, however, stretches only so far. The clinics do not have specialists.
For patients in need of specialists, except in immediate life-threatening cases, Dr. Davis said: "I have to send them to specialty clinics because the doctors won't see them in their offices. And they have clinics only once a week or once a month."
Nothing, however, impedes the care of Osborne Lemon, 62, for whom Dr. Davis has become more than the crutch supporting his health. Retired two years ago as a maintenance man for the local housing authority, he is diabetic and blind in one eye and has congestive heart disease.
"She was instrumental in helping me obtain my disability," Mr. Lemon said. "She wrote them a letter." He was deemed eligible for a Social Security disability check, of $697 a month, and that made him eligible for Medicare.
Wearing a crimson beret, jeans and a Van Gogh beard, ashen-faced with fear, Mr. Lemon sat one day in a clinic examining room. He had gained 20 pounds in a week and that morning he had awakened coughing and gasping.
Dr. Davis told him that because of his heart condition, his lungs were filling with fluid. Pills would not do. He needed high doses of an intravenous diuretic, and for that he would have to go to Candler General Hospital. "This is mild and it's early," she assured him. "This way you may be in the hospital only one day."
 At 8 the next morning, Dr. Davis began visiting her hospitalized patients. Mr. Lemon sat despondently on the side of his bed. Dr. Davis sat down beside him and rubbed his back. He told her he had awakened coughing again. She listened to his breathing with her stethoscope.
"You sound good," she said. "Your cough is a cardiac cough, from your lungs." Praising him, she said. "Your weight's down, from 260 to 251." That was still not enough, so she said she would keep him in the hospital another day.
Dr. Davis says she perseveres. She attributes that to her parents, now divorced. Her father, a laborer for a trucking company, rues having dropped out of high school. Her mother, an elementary school teacher, earned a master's degree in education. "They stressed education," Dr. Davis said. "Stressed it, stressed it, stressed it."
And then, the summer after her freshman year at Emory, it all seemed for naught. "I got pregnant," she said. "I was depressed. I was going to call it all quits. But my mom told me to move past it, and she took my son so I could finish school."
A month after the birth of her son, now a freshman at Georgia Tech, the doctor said, "I got saved and gave my life to Christ." She married in medical school, had her daughter, now 11, and was divorced five years ago.
As a student, she came to know the debt and dunning notices that ravage the poor. Her biggest debt now is the $80,000 she owes for medical school, which she is paying off at a rate of $1,000 a month.
A lesson learned about debt, she bought her red eight-year-old Ford Explorer used, for $10,000 cash. She and her daughter live in a black subdivision, in a 2,400-square-foot house with three bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths that she bought three years ago for $96,000.
Dr. Davis's salary is $112,000, of which she gives 10 percent to her church. She said she had never given a thought to a better-paying career in private medicine because a salaried job allows her to spend more time with patients. Hefty, at 5 feet 5 inches, Dr. Davis relates to obesity among black women.
"It's easier to bring about change when you are part of what you are trying to change," she said. "I was raised on pigs' feet and pigs' tails. Cottage cheese? Get real."
She opened the door to an examining room and greeted a 43-year-old patient, a woman near tears. "Knees are hurting," she told the doctor. "The weight got them."
The woman weighed 414 pounds. The doctor discussed diet pills and nutrition with the patient.
"I'm down to 235 from 265 in two years," Dr. Davis said. "If I can do it, you can do it. If you get to 250-260, that's reasonable."
Patients here discuss their preference for Dr. Davis not in terms of race but in those of manner and style.
"She's interested in you and your trouble," said Luther Hancock, 63, who is white and hobbled by osteoarthritis. "She found out I was prediabetic. She found I had high blood pressure. I wouldn't trade her in for anyone."
Annie Kearse, 69, who is black and suffers from hypertension, has watched Dr. Davis from childhood. "I just like what she is," Mrs. Kearse said. "I'm so proud of her. She comes from out of my neighborhood."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Debbie Phoenix-Davis returned to practice medicine in the largely black neighborhood of Savannah, Ga., where she was reared and where physicians are rare. She now combines her medical skills with an understanding of the special concerns of blacks in treating patients like Joan Futch. (Photographs by Alan Hawes for The New York Times); Savannah's poor and uninsured can seek care at three clinics, including one where Dr. Davis studies the X-rays of a patient who has pneumonia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOREHOUSE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOREHOUSE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BLACKS; DOCTORS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); OBESITY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); CANCER (75%); HYPERTENSION (75%); ARTHRITIS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (74%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); STROKES (73%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (71%); HEART DISEASE (70%); BREAST CANCER (64%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (62%); PROSTATE CANCER (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, DEBBIE (DR); KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



324 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Malaysia Says Its Much-Criticized Financial Strategy Has Worked

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Feb. 12

 BODY:
From the plush conference room with teakwood panels to the rich coffee served in china cups, the Malaysian Central Bank was determined to make the right impression on the foreign fund managers it had invited to a recent briefing.
Malaysia wanted them to bring their capital back to the country, the bank officials told the group. They understood if the investors were still angry at Malaysia for imposing strict controls on foreign investment last September. But the rules had since been relaxed, they said. Malaysia was ready for business. 
 The one word the Malaysian bankers did not utter was, "Sorry."
Five months after Malaysia incurred global opprobrium by closing off its currency and capital markets, its officials are in no mood to apologize.
Far from wrecking the Malaysian economy, they say, the isolationist strategy has stabilized the country and put it on the road to recovery.
By suspending trading of the Malaysian ringgit and fixing its exchange rate to the United States dollar, the Government was able to lower interest rates and ward off speculators.
Since September, Malaysia's exports and foreign reserves have increased, consumer confidence has flickered back to life, and the country has escaped the violent social unrest of its neighbor, Indonesia.
"The economy is responding to what we have done," said Finance Minister Daim Zainuddin. "People are comfortable. They say things are predictable. To us, that's a positive."
Mr. Daim has little patience for foreigners who tell him that Malaysia has committed economic heresy. "They're entitled to their opinion," he said with a shrug. "Either they invest here or they don't. If they prove us wrong, we look stupid."
Malaysia's experiment has not spawned imitators. Brazil, which fell into its currency crisis after Malaysia had begun reaping benefits from the policy, has kept its markets open.
And not all of Malaysia's economic indicators point to recovery. According to Government statistics, foreign investors are pouring an average of $1 billion a month into Korea and $500 million a month into Thailand. Malaysia has not issued recent numbers, but economists say it is getting only a fraction of that.
Still, Government officials, academics and business leaders here relish the fact that Malaysia has avoided the prophecies of doom made by the International Monetary Fund, the United States Treasury Department and other critics of capital controls.
"We were seen as having done something very naughty," said Francis Yeoh, a Malaysian-Chinese industrialist and one of the nation's richest men. He predicted that "pragmatism and greed" will eventually overcome foreign fury at Malaysia for its actions.
At the moment, the fury flows in both directions. Malaysia's irascible 73-year-old Prime Minister and unchallenged leader, Mahathir Mohamad, blames the West in general, and George Soros in particular, for precipitating the Asian crisis. He once said a cabal of mainly Jewish currency traders had destroyed Asian countries by speculating against their currencies and forcing them to deplete their reserves.
To many Malaysians, it seems unjust that Dr. Mahathir reaps criticism.
"Mahathir and Soros both support regulating hedge funds," Mr. Yeoh said, adding that in the eyes of the world "one is a heretic and one is a guru."
But the world has also been troubled by Dr. Mahathir's crackdown on political opponents. On Sept. 2, the day after he imposed capital controls, Dr. Mahathir ousted his deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, who had opposed the policies. When the Prime Minister threw Mr. Anwar in jail on lurid corruption and sex-related charges, it ignited the largest street protests in Malaysia in decades.
"Foreign investors don't give much importance to human rights," said Chandra Muzaffar, a professor of political science at the University of Malaya. "But they should be concerned about the Anwar episode, because it has implications for Malaysia's short-term and long-term stability."
When Malaysia imposed its controls, the Government declared that foreign capital could not be withdrawn from country for 12 months. The goal was to punish speculators and other short-term investors. But people who invest for the long term felt like they were being held hostage, too.
"What right do they have to confiscate people's capital?" asked Bill Kaye, a fund manager at the Pacific Group in Hong Kong. "If you're an attractive place to invest, why do you need to do that?"
Two weeks ago, Malaysia lifted the ban on repatriating capital and replaced it with an exit tax that encourages investors to leave their funds in the country for more than a year. The change mollified a few investors, but not Mr. Kaye. "Most people just want to get their money out," he said.
Malaysia says its economic future does not depend on foreign investors. By fixing its currency at a time when other Asian currencies are rising, Malaysia is suddenly very competitive. Its total exports rose 18 percent in the first 11 months of 1998, compared with all of 1997.
The Government contends the new stability has cheered consumers. Monthly car sales rose from 12,000 to 19,000 between September and November. Unlike Indonesia, Malaysia does not feel like a country in the grip of recession. Bars and restaurants in the capital are crowded and the streets are choked with lines of orderly traffic.
If the Government had allowed the ringgit to erode in value, Mr. Daim said, it would have driven up the price of food, which could have set off widespread riots.
Protesters angry over Mr. Anwar's arrest "tried to imitate the Indonesians," the Finance Minister said. "But Malaysians by nature understand that it is not going to solve any problems."
Certainly the controls restored order to Malaysia's storm-tossed currency. Companies like Dell Computer, which owns a manufacturing plant in Penang and does most of its business in local currency, found the fixed exchange rate made it easier to do business, said Mark Stevens, corporate vice president of Dell's Asia Pacific operations.
Mr. Daim vowed that Malaysia would not float the ringgit until the international financial community agreed to regulate hedge funds and currency traders. "If banks can be regulated, why can't currency traders?" he said. "If stockbrokers can be regulated, why can't currency traders?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters against treatment of Anwar Ibrahim, a top official who objected to the nation's economic policies. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Malaysia shows location of Kuala Lumpur: Officials in Kuala Lumpur say they are ready for business again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND CENTRAL BANK & TRUST CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TRENDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); STATISTICS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK GEORGE SOROS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



325 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ACQUITTAL: THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL;
Scrutiny Shadows a Decision on Clinton

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13

 BODY:
The independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, has said he would defer a decision on whether to indict President Clinton until his impeachment trial was over. Decision time has now arrived.
But it comes at a precarious moment for Mr. Starr and his office: Never before in his four-and-a-half-year tenure as independent counsel has Mr. Starr been forced to fend off as many escalating inquiries and so much mounting criticism from different quarters. 
 The Justice Department is beginning an inquiry into accusations of misconduct by Mr. Starr's prosecutors. And a special master is nearing completion of a report on accusations of leaks to the reporters by prosecutors in Mr. Starr's office.
If that were not enough, the conduct of Mr. Starr's office will be closely examined by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which will begin hearings on Feb. 24 to explore the strengths and weaknesses of the independent counsel law. The controversial law, enacted in 1978 after the Watergate inquiry, will expire on June 30 unless Congress reauthorizes it; the almost-certain demise of the statute in its present form is likely to be one of Mr. Starr's legacies.
Although Mr. Starr has been relatively quiet in recent weeks, his prosecutors watched the Senate trial very closely while preparing for four pending criminal trials to be held later this year. Two are scheduled to begin next month.
Perhaps most important, Mr. Starr must decide whether or not he should seek the indictment of the President. Mr. Starr has told associates that he believes he has the constitutional authority to seek Mr. Clinton's indictment before his term expires in January 2001, said several associates who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
But Mr. Starr has not told his closest associates what he intends to do, nor has he "dropped any hints," one associate said.
The associates said they believed that Mr. Starr was sensitive to the fact that the indictment of a sitting President could cause the nation to suffer a cataclysmic constitutional crisis after having already endured a lengthy impeachment process. These associates said they doubted whether Mr. Starr would ever be prepared to take such a momentous step.
As an example of Mr. Starr's cautiousness, one associate recalled that Mr. Starr was especially sensitive about the timing of sending the 445-page impeachment referral to the House of Representatives in September. The associate said Mr. Starr had insisted that referral not be sent while the President was out of the country, or while Congress was in recess.
"Before he would decide to indict a sitting President, he would consider many factors, including the impact of such a decision on national security and the economy," said the associate who speaks frequently with Mr. Starr. "He is not reckless."
In testimony before the House Judiciary Committee in November, Mr. Starr said he would wait until the end of the Congressional impeachment process to decide whether there was sufficient evidence to seek the indictment of Mr. Clinton on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice related to the Monica Lewinsky matter.
Mr. Starr also testified that he had not reached a decision on the question of whether there was sufficient evidence against Mr. Clinton to persuade a "fair-minded jury" to "convict based on these facts."
But since the outcome of the Senate trial appeared certain for weeks, Mr. Starr and members of his team have quietly confronted the question. Several associates said this week that a sharp rift had developed among Mr. Starr's prosecutors over what he should do and when he should do it.
Some lawyers inside the office and advisers outside the office have quietly lobbied Mr. Starr to seek the indictment of the President before he leaves office, associates of Mr. Starr said. Two senior constitutional advisers, Ronald Rotunda and William Kelley, have told Mr. Starr that they believe there is nothing in the Constitution or recent legal authority that would prevent such an indictment. Mr. Starr's office is aware that the President's lawyers would challenge the constitutionality of an indictment.
However, some lawyers in Mr. Starr's office and advisers outside the office firmly believe that the Office of the Independent Counsel should not indict Mr. Clinton until after he leaves office in 23 months, if at all. Those lawyers said that a grand jury indictment of the President while he is in office is unlikely, according to associates.
Another issue facing Mr. Starr is that some of the most senior lawyers in the office who played pivotal roles in the Lewinsky inquiry will not be remaining in the office until Mr. Starr makes his decision. Robert J. Bittman and Brett Kavanaugh, two of the office's most important lawyers on the Lewinsky inquiry, have announced their intentions to leave. And Jackie M. Bennett, Mr. Starr's deputy who participated in the grand jury questioning of the President, is also hunting for a job in his native state of Indiana, the associates said.
Because those lawyers who are most familiar with the case are leaving, now that the Senate trial has concluded, there was a report in The Washington Post this week that it looks increasingly unlikely that Mr. Starr intends to indict the President before he leaves office. But one associate dismissed the speculation, saying, "Those lawyers don't know what Ken is thinking."
On Friday, following the Senate's votes to acquit the President, the leading prosecutor for the House impeachment managers said that it would not be good for the country if Mr. Starr indicted the President.
"I don't think indicting and criminally trying him, after what we have all been through, is going to be helpful to the country," said Representative Henry J. Hyde, the Illinois Republican who heads the House Judiciary Committee.
There has also been speculation about Mr. Starr's thoughts and plans for his own professional fate, although he has been mum about his future. Several associates have said they are convinced that Mr. Starr may leave the office within the next several months.
But another associate predicted that Mr. Starr would stay until the important decisions were made and the clouds over his office had lifted. "I think he now feels a moral obligation not to drop this thing," said the associate, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "He wants to see it through."
The Lewinsky grand jury's 18-month term expires next month. But prosecutors could seek a six-month extension, which would allow the current 23 members to continue hearing evidence about the Lewinsky matter. Or, the associates said, Mr. Starr could seek a sealed indictment against the President, or present the existing evidence to a new grand jury for an indictment later.
The statute of limitations on perjury and obstruction of justice is five years, meaning that Mr. Starr could conceivably seek an indictment as late as 2003.
Besides the matter of an indictment of Mr. Clinton, the office is also actively investigating several issues relating to a former White House volunteer, Kathleen E. Willey, who has testified that the President made an unwanted sexual pass at her just outside the Oval Office in November 1993. Mr. Starr's prosecutors are investigating whether there were unlawful efforts to influence her testimony in the Paula Jones sexual misconduct lawsuit against the President.
In a related case, Julie Hiatt Steele, a friend of Ms. Willey, faces trial on charges that she made false statements under oath that had cast doubt on Ms. Willey's claim. She is also charged with trying to influence the testimony of others in the office.
On March 8, Mr. Starr's prosecutors will begin Susan H. McDougal's criminal contempt trial in Little Rock, Ark. Ms. McDougal is charged with refusing to answer a grand jury's questions about whether the President lied under oath when he testified in 1996 about the failed Whitewater land deal. If convicted, she faces a 10-year term.
Ms. McDougal is a former business partner of the Clintons in the Whitewater real estate venture in Arkansas. She has already served 18 months in jail after a Federal judge in Little Rock found her in civil contempt for refusing to answer a grand jury's questions about her dealings with the Clintons.
Later this year, there will likely be two trials involving a former Clinton Justice Department official, Webster L. Hubbell.
In one case, Mr. Hubbell is charged with fraud connected to a land development deal in Arkansas. In the other case, which was recently reinstated by an appeals court, he faces charges of tax evasion and mail fraud. Mr. Hubbell has denied wrongdoing and is trying to quash the indictment in the tax case.
Mr. Starr's office must complete reports on his investigations into the Whitewater land deal. He also must complete two other reports, one on White House travel office dismissals, in which nepotism was alleged, and another concerning an improper retrieval of hundreds of F.B.I. background inquiries of current and former Government employees, most of whom were Republicans.
All three reports must be filed with the three-judge panel that appointed Mr. Starr in August 1994. Associates said that those reports would not likely be completed for some time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth W. Starr, at his home in Virginia, is expected to decide soon on whether to indict President Clinton, even as he himself is the center of several Government inquiries into his conduct as independent counsel. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times); Webster L. Hubbell is accused of fraud. (Reuters); Susan H. McDougal faces contempt counts. (Reuters); Julie Hiatt Steele faces obstruction charges. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "THE RELATED CASES -- Many, Including Starr, May Still Face Inquiries or Criminal Charges"
 
The Senate's decision in the impeachment trial resolved the major issue generated by the investigations of the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, but many loose ends remain, including these:
 
Pending Criminal Cases
-- Julie Hiatt Steele, a former friend of Kathleen E. Willey, faces charges of obstruction of justice next month. Ms. Steele, who is accused of filing a false affidavit in the Paula Jones case, lying to two grand juries and trying to influence other witnesses, has pleaded not guilty and is seeking to have the charges dismissed.
-- Susan H. McDougal faces criminal contempt charges next month in Federal District Court in Little Rock, Ark. Ms. McDougal has refused to answer questions about President Clinton and has already served jail time for civil contempt.
-- Webster L. Hubbell, a former Associate Attorney General, faces prosecution later this year on fraud charges connected to a land development deal in Arkansas. In a second case, recently reinstated by an appeals court, he faces charges of tax evasion and mail fraud.
 
Continuing Investigations
-- Whether President Clinton will be indicted on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, either after he leaves office or before, has been the subject of much speculation.
-- Matters relating to Ms. Willey, a former White House volunteer, including possible efforts to influence her testimony in the Jones lawsuit, are still being investigated.
 
Investigations of Starr
-- The Justice Department is inquiring into whether Mr. Starr's office violated department guidelines in the Lewinsky investigation. Several issues are involved, including the early handling of Monica S. Lewinsky and questions about disclosing contacts between Mr. Starr's office and lawyers for Paula Corbin Jones.
-- A Federal judge in Washington has appointed a special master to investigate whether Mr. Starr's office leaked secret grand jury material to news organizations.
 
Other Matters
-- The impeachment trial testimony of a White House aide, Sidney Blumenthal, has been questioned and Mr. Starr could be asked to investigate.
-- The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, has asked Mr. Starr's office to investigate whether there are tapes of Mr. Clinton's telephone conversations with Ms. Lewinsky.
-- Mr. Starr's office must write final reports on other matters under his jurisdiction, including the original Whitewater land deal, possible misuse of F.B.I. files and the dismissal of the White House travel staff. Those investigations are not finished, although Mr. Starr has said he did not find criminal wrongdoing by the President in those matters.
-- A grand jury is investigating Linda R. Tripp on potential criminal charges in the secret recording of Ms. Lewinsky from her home telephone in Maryland, where taping of conversations requires the consent of both parties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPECIAL PROSECUTORS (INDEPENDENT COUNSEL); ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VAN NATTA, DON JR; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (94%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



326 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Plan to End Runway Rationing May Not Mean Chaos

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
For 30 years, the Federal Aviation Administration has rationed landing and takeoff slots to keep La Guardia and Kennedy Airports from being overwhelmed by airplanes. But last week the Transportation Department, its parent agency, proposed phasing out the limits over five years.
Without them, and without new gates or runways, how will those airports avoid chaos? 
 The same way, Federal Aviation Administration officials say, as the airports in Las Vegas, Nev.; Long Beach, Calif.; Pontiac, Mich., and Memphis, all of which have more takeoffs and landings than La Guardia or Kennedy.
None have ever had a Federal limit on landing slots -- but none have reached gridlock, either. All have airlines that have elected on their own to limit traffic to no more than the runways can handle, officials say. And these officials predict the same will happen in New York.
"It's an economic decision for the airlines," said Ron Morgan, the agency's director of air traffic. "Basically, they're making decisions based on when their customers want to fly versus the amount of delay that they historically receive. If they're getting 30-minute delays, and they have done that consistently for the last 60 days, chances are they are going to reschedule."
Keeping a big jet waiting for takeoff costs hundreds of dollars a minute in fuel, crew pay and lost revenue, airlines officials say.
Robert Flocke, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association, the largest pilots' union, said that "slots are primarily an economic deal."
"As long as the F.A.A. minimums for physical separation and time separation are maintained, we don't care," he said. He added that pilots were paid the same and that safety problems would arise only if a jet burned too much fuel sitting on the runway or a delay was so long that a flight crew's shift went beyond allowed limits.
The scarcity of gates will limit peak congestion, experts say. "If they really have to have a 1 P.M. departure, 3:30 may be the earliest they can get a gate," said James K. Buckles, the Federal Aviation Administration's assistant division manager for air traffic in the region that includes New York.
Not that the two airports run like clockwork now. Of 361,000 landings and takeoffs at La Guardia last year, nearly 25,000 were delayed by 15 minutes or more, or 68 per 1,000 operations -- up from 49 per 1,000 in 1997, according to the agency's figures. At Kennedy, there were 357,000 operations and 13,000 delays, or 36 per 1,000 operations, up from 18 the year before.
Delays are growing nationwide. The Inspector General's office of the Transportation Department recently studied 2,115 domestic routes to and from the 28 busiest American airports (which include Newark, ranked No. 15, but not Kennedy, No. 31, or La Guardia, No. 34), and found that the gate-to-gate time had grown longer on 1,544 routes, or 73 percent.
Taxiing accounted for 56 percent of the increase. Jeff Nelligan, a spokesman for the Inspector General, said of Kennedy and La Guardia, "These two airports, as well as Newark, have the highest taxi-out times in the country."
But neither Kennedy nor La Guardia is saturated all the time. From the tower at La Guardia, it is obvious that the airport has a great deal of spare capacity. There is almost always at least a short line of planes: at 2:45 P.M. last Friday, eight were waiting for takeoff, and the radarscope showed a similar number waiting to land in a line spread out across about 40 miles of sky.
But the morning's log sheet -- a form on a clipboard filled with notations and looking like a baseball scorecard -- showed that the airport had not reached its peak capacity of 75 landings or takeoffs in any one-hour period that day. The highest number was 71, between 8 and 9 A.M. Traffic on Friday was down slightly because of the pilots' sickout at American Airlines, but there are always off-peak hours.
The peaks at La Guardia are a rush of departures about 7 A.M.; a slew of arrivals between 8 and 9 A.M., with another rush of arrivals around 4 P.M., and a flood of departures again beginning at 5. It all dies off by 9 P.M.
Kennedy, which has seven and a half times the land area of La Guardia, can handle arrivals on two parallel runways and departures on a third runway if weather is good, for up to about 150 operations an hour. It suffers the same rate of reductions from winds or rain or snow as La Guardia. Because so much of its traffic is international, its peaks are matched to time zones on the other side of the world, but current limits on takeoffs and landings apply only in the afternoons and evenings.
The Federal Aviation Administration has gotten better at managing planes: new displays at controller work stations can show the location of every plane bound for either airport, even if it is on the other side of the ocean or the continent, and can count those due in any 15-minute period, even those that have not taken off yet. And controllers can slow planes down to keep arrivals at a manageable rate. But capacity has fallen rather than grown in the last three decades because not much new concrete has been poured and the mix of planes has changed.
"Thirty years ago, we left three miles between airplanes," said Carmine W. Gallo, a traffic management officer at the New York Terminal Radar Approach Control, the air traffic office, in Westbury, N.Y., that handles all traffic going in and out of all the airports in the New York area. But now there is a separate category -- "heavies," like Boeing 747's, 757's and 767's -- that create such powerful wakes that commuter planes must follow five miles behind instead of three. So the interval between takeoffs must be longer.
Pilots of some small planes will elect to take off right behind a "heavy" and avoid the wake by climbing faster, but the controllers are not allowed to suggest it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With Federal limits on takeoffs and landings at La Guardia and Kennedy Airports expected to end, airlines will have to regulate the traffic to avoid costly delays. On Friday, La Guardia was anything but overcrowded. John T. Kaplun at work in the central air traffic office in Westbury, N.Y. Its screens now track every plane bound for any airport in the region. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); AIRPORTS (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); DEREGULATION (77%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



327 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2161 words

HEADLINE: SHOOTING IN THE BRONX: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Killing Heightens the Unease Felt by Africans in New York

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
The glow from the Farafina Coffee Shop on West 116th Street one evening last week was warm, the smell of frying fish and fufu sweetly familiar, the conversation among the West African men gathered inside easy. But as the large television broadcast yet another report about the police shooting of Amadou Diallo, an immigrant from Guinea, the feeling was sour.
"We are afraid, we are afraid," said Silla Sidique, 35, a Guinean businessman who lives in Harlem. He nodded as Mamoudou Jawara, 30, also a Guinean businessman, described being repeatedly stopped by the police near his Staten Island home, asked for his license, and occasionally told by officers to "go back to Africa." 
 "I want to go back before somebody kills me," said Mr. Sidique, who has been in the country a year.
For Africans, particularly West Africans, Mr. Diallo's death has only reinforced the vulnerability they feel as black immigrants in New York City. They left a continent where they were a racial majority -- where divisions were based on class or politics or tribe but rarely on skin color -- for a country where they are a minority and where, they say, race matters all too much.
And the fatal shooting of Mr. Diallo on Feb. 4 has highlighted their insularity, living in but not necessarily assimilating in a country they view with caution. Like many West Indians, they have chosen to remain largely apart from African-Americans here, although Mr. Diallo's shooting shows signs of forging bonds between the two groups.
Many African immigrants say that whether they stay here for 2 or 20 years, Africa is, and always will be, home.
Yet more are coming to New York City than ever. From 1990 to 1996, the number of sub-Saharan Africans here nearly doubled, to about 84,000 from 44,000, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College. Most are from West Africa.
By the 2000 census, Dr. Beveridge said, the official count will exceed 100,000 -- and the real count will probably be higher. Compared with other groups, like Dominicans, whose numbers will most likely pass 500,000 in the next census, their numbers are still small, but their presence is becoming visible.
It is most notable in the restaurants and businesses and mosques lining West 116th Street, but also in scattered pockets around the city, from Morris Heights in the Bronx to Clifton on Staten Island to Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn.
The Africans arriving are diverse in origin and language and religion, and in station and aspiration. While Nigerians and Ghanaians remain the most numerous among sub-Saharan African groups in the city, many new arrivals are, like Mr. Diallo, from West Africa, and many, like him, are Muslim. They greet one another softly with "Bon soir" or "Salaam aleikum," or in African dialects like Fulani.
The common perception of Africa as a desperate continent, bleeding from wounds of war and poverty, would suggest that its inhabitants are equally desperate to escape it. Many are. But others are well-educated, and often have relatively good jobs in their homeland. They simply want to see if there is something better beyond their country's borders, and many crave more education than Africa can offer.
"The reason most Africans leave to come here is not different from the reasons any European leaves for -- for education, upward mobility, to maintain their family, to start as an entrepreneur," said Sidique Abubakarr Wai, the president of the United African Congress, one of the many groups that the African diaspora has created in the United States.
As with countless other immigrants, many Africans say that what they find here is far from what they expected. "Everyone thinks America is like 'Dallas,' " Dame Babou, a Senegalese immigrant who is the host of a radio show broadcast here and in Dakar, said of the television show that has given people around the world a false picture of lavish American wealth.
Not surprisingly, then, interviews with more than 100 Africans around the city suggest a profound ambivalence about America: they cherish its economic opportunity, its political freedom and its education system, but they dislike its racism and its violence, and they disdain its values.
 
Numbers Begin To Increase in the 80's
Historically negligible, the number of Africans in New York began to increase in the 1980's as a result of drought, inflation and repression in Africa. In 1986, several thousand Africans were granted amnesty, enabling relatives to follow.
Earlier this decade, the Government significantly expanded the number of visas available to Africans through a Federal lottery system, with the number allotted to Africa increasing to 30,514 in fiscal year 1997 from 11,571 in 1993. Continuing unrest in countries like Sierra Leone and Liberia has brought still more Africans, many of whom have been granted asylum.
Many Africans come to study, often at community colleges, usually majoring in practical subjects like accounting. Often, they will work 40 hours a week to pay costly foreign-student fees. Like many immigrants, they see education as the path to upward mobility.
With limited higher education in most of Africa, New York can seem like an academic candy store. Maurice Ojuang, 33, a Kenyan, earned two degrees in computer science, and is working toward a Ph.D. at Lehman College.
But to feed his mind and his family, Mr. Ojuang spends 40 hours a week in the underbelly of New York, managing a residential hotel-cum-city-shelter on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. The owner has been good to him, he said, but the job has few charms. Last week, he worked the front desk as residents demanded new rooms or televisions or repairs, heaping expletive-laced abuse on a stoic Mr. Ojuang, who sat in a locked room behind a glass partition in a pressed shirt and tie.
Such days are one reason Mr. Ojuang said he despises New York, which he thought would be "halfway on my way to heaven." Instead, he said, it has become two-thirds of the way to hell. But having given up a solid job back home and raising a family in New York, he is still here 10 years later, still dreaming of home.
Most of those who come are young men, often living three or four or eight to an apartment, much as Mr. Diallo did. Many, largely from Senegal, but also from numerous other West African countries, become peddlers, or taxi drivers, working for a few years, living a spartan existence, sending money home, and then returning there themselves.
But increasingly, more Africans are staying longer in New York, driven by growing economic pressures back home. Many are starting small businesses, like restaurants or groceries offering African products, in a sign that Africans are putting down roots.
They have also started small import-export businesses, making them bicontinental merchants who leverage American dollars for African products. The building at 1225 Broadway, near West 30th Street, for example, is a vertical bazaar, floor after floor filled almost entirely with African small businesses.
Some African immigrants, particularly those from English-speaking countries like Nigeria or Gambia, are getting jobs in the city bureaucracy, as their French-speaking counterparts, hindered by a lack of English, watch their ascendancy toward the middle class.
In another sign of commitment to longer-term stays, the last six years have seen more men bringing over their wives. And many single men are going home for "vacation" and returning with a wife.
But that creates complications, said Mr. Babou, the radio host. Often, the couples barely know each other. Many men do not take well to their wives having to work. And many women balk at the discrepancy between the image of America that their suitors painted and the reality. Quite a few marriages end, he said.
Many of the women who come work in the hair-braiding salons sprinkled across the city. Some women are even coming on their own, to study as well as to work.
More children are also in the mix, although the city's schools still have fewer than 5,000 sub-Saharan African students, according to the Board of Education. But how, and where, to raise children is also a contentious topic among Africans, many of whom believe any educational advantages America offers their children may be wiped out by the corrosion of African values.
Africans are strict disciplinarians; children are raised to be polite, to respect their fellow human beings and to obey their parents, said David Udotong Jr. 33, a Nigerian immigrant. American children, in contrast, "are very wild," he said, and African parents must constantly battle their influence.
Consequently, many families decide to leave their children in Africa with grandparents or other family members.
Steven Weah, 22, who fled the civil war in Liberia and received asylum here, said he watched his younger brother fall into a bad crowd of American teen-agers in Clifton on Staten Island. He became hostile, Mr. Weah said, then was arrested for shoplifting, and is now in a group home.
Mr. Weah's neighborhood is home to both Africans and African-Americans, but he himself does not mix with his American neighbors. Barriers of language and culture keep the groups apart, although there is some intermarriage, and many Africans say they keep to themselves out of fear of trouble.
Some Africans simply fear that mixing with the melting pot that is New York will mean subjugating their culture.
Eugenie, 32, a graphic designer from the Ivory Coast, who would not give her last name, said her husband has been here for 15 years, but "he's still pretty much an African." They work to keep it that way -- they eat African food, listen to African music and the French news, shop at African stores. "We are trying to keep that side of us that we think is the best," said Eugenie, who joined her husband here two years ago.
Another way many Africans maintain their cultural ties is through religion -- whether they are Roman Catholics, or Seventh-day Adventists, or Pentecostalists, or, in large numbers, Muslims.
Most West Africans are Muslims, and they cling to their faith here, saying it encourages them to work hard and live cleanly. Around 5:30 each day, livery cabs pull up to mosques around the city, and men trickle out of nearby apartment buildings, responding to the call to prayer, many wearing traditional African dress.
Various Islamic groups and African leaders also organize material support as well as a spiritual anchor for immigrants who are sick or unemployed. "We practice 'African socialism,' " said Demba Sanyang, a Gambian who works for the city's criminal justice office. "We must take care of each other."
Sometimes that means helping to pay the way home for those who have lost either hope, or their lives, here. Many say they have had to ship home too many compatriots, slain while driving the livery cabs so essential to their livelihood. Since 1986, more than 50 West African cabdrivers have been killed, West African groups say. America is far more violent than many Africans expected. Some, like Mr. Weah, left strife-torn countries, only to find themselves in neighborhoods where shots still ring out. "I ran from gunshots. I come here -- the gunshots are very scary," he said of his neighborhood. "Most of the time I stay home."
Still, some Africans say this has become their new home, preferring its abundant strengths and weaknesses to the lacks -- of opportunity, freedom and food -- in their native land. Tunde Babwale, 40, a Nigerian who works as an operating room technician, and is a United States citizen who served in the Army, said the Diallo case had only cemented his determination to become a lawyer and remain politically active here.
But many others say that America is a utilitarian stop until they can return home. They do not want to grow old in a country where they say the young do not respect the old.
And for many Africans in New York, and perhaps America, the Diallo shooting has scraped against old uncertainties, and bred new ones. Many say they will reserve judgment, but they believe that Mr. Diallo may have been shot because he was black.
 
The Difference That Race Can Make
Tingah Mohammed, a 49-year-old Ghanaian who has been here 15 years, said he had never heard of racism until he came here. He recalled walking late one night down a TriBeCa street, and seeing a white woman begin to run. She hid behind a rubbish heap. She was afraid, he realized, of him.
"I nearly cried," he said.
Five years ago, Dr. Balde Ngere immigrated to the United States from France, where he had immigrated from Guinea. In Guinea, he said, he had fled a government that cared little for political freedom or ending poverty. But the racism in France was so bad, he said, that it was no place for an African.
Now his friend Amadou Diallo has been killed by the police in America.
"Where," he asked, "do we go now?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Farafina Coffee Shop on West 116th Street in Manhattan offers Africans and Americans the food and the talk of the old country. From left, Ben Aziz, from Mali, Buddy Muhammed, also from Mali, and Richard E. Stone, an American, chatted there. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Maurice Ojuang, who manages a Bronx hotel, thought moving from Kenya to New York would land him "halfway on my way to heaven," but finds he is longing for home. (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); GUINEA (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); MALI (92%); GHANA (79%); KENYA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); GUINEA (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); MALI (92%); GHANA (79%); KENYA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS; POLICE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT IMMIGRATION (91%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CENSUS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); RELIGION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; DIALLO, AMADOU AMADOU DIALLO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



328 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ignores Mexico's Anti-Drug Failures

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN with CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13

 BODY:
As the Clinton Administration weighs its annual evaluation of Mexico's cooperation in fighting illegal drugs, United States officials admit privately that by most statistical measures, the Mexican record looks especially bad this year.
Drug seizures by the Mexican police have fallen significantly. Nearly all of the most important Mexican narcotics traffickers identified last year remain at large. The promised extraditions of some Mexican drug suspects to the United States have not materialized, and drug enforcement programs have been rocked by a series of public conflicts between the two Governments. 
 Yet even as President Clinton embarks on a brief visit to Mexico starting Sunday, his aides have neither despaired of such facts nor spent much time analyzing them.
"There is a difference between cooperation and success," the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, argued this week. While their cooperation might not be having much effect on the problem, he suggested, Mexican officials "are cooperating more closely with the United States at virtually every level than ever before."
The fervor with which Administration officials are praising Mexico's record -- even before studying the assessments being collected from various Government agencies -- underscores how for Mexico the yearly "certification" process has become more of a joint public-relations campaign aimed at the Congress than an objective appraisal.
"This is not about what Mexico has done," one Administration official said, speaking on the condition that he not be identified. "This is about convincing the Hill that whatever Mexico has done is enough."
Administration officials say their evaluation, which is expected by the end of the month and mandated by a 1986 law for countries where drugs are produced or transported, is particularly counterproductive in Mexico.
To observe the law strictly and possibly impose the economic penalties it contemplates, they argue, would be to place a strategic and complex relationship at risk for just one of the many interests that the United States has in Mexico. And Mexican officials have done their best to underscore that risk.
"I don't even want to think what de-certification would provoke," Mexico's Ambassador to the United States, Jesus Reyes Heroles, said in an interview. "The equilibrium that underlies our relationship with the United States would be undone."
Many analysts of Mexican politics describe such warnings as overblown. Moreover, aides to a half-dozen Washington legislators who have played leading roles on the drug issue say Mexico's de-certification is unlikely anyway.
The aides, speaking on the condition they not be identified, said they expected a formal endorsement of Mexico's efforts from the Administration and then an energetic Congressional effort to override that endorsement. But they added that they see no clear sign that they will be any more able to reverse the certification than they were last year, when a Senate motion for disapproval gathered only 45 votes.
"There's a kind of weariness with fighting the same battle over and over," a Senate aide said. "It gets old."
Supporters of the Administration note that although the Mexican authorities have not made much headway against the drug mafias over the last year, the establishment of elite anti-drug units within the army and the federal police has led to closer working relationships with the Central Intelligence Agency, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
But officials from each of those agencies challenge the Administration's public assertion that the Mexican authorities are trying their best. Those officials contend that the obstacle to success in Mexico is not so much the strength of the traffickers or the inexperience of the police but the Mexican Government's unwillingness to fight corruption more aggressively.
Intelligence officers working with the military's special anti-drug force, the Center for Anti-Narcotics Information, say they believe that some of its efforts may have been compromised by corrupt superiors, officials said. Three senior agents of an elite Mexican police force trained by American officials failed lie-detector tests last year over questions about their contacts with drug traffickers.
The agents were moved out of the unit but remain in the federal police.
Drug investigations that have touched on several well-known Mexican politicians and at least a dozen high-ranking military officers have not yet led to any arrests, despite what American officials describe as strong evidence that some of the politicians and officers have sought to protect traffickers in return for large bribes.
Perhaps most important, officials say that on a series of occasions over the last year, American intelligence and law-enforcement officials have provided their Mexican counterparts with information on the whereabouts of powerful drug traffickers, only to have Mexican agents mishandle the intelligence or wait for hours before carrying out raids.
"We give them houses, we give them phone numbers -- and nothing happens," said an United States official. "Cases go nowhere."
An embarrassing example of the problem will provide a backdrop for President Clinton's meetings with President Ernesto Zedillo, which are to take place in and around the city of Merida, on the Yucatan peninsula.
Just across the peninsula, in the state of Quintana Roo, United States intelligence and law-enforcement officials have been working for more than a year with elite Mexican forces to dismantle a major drug smuggling operation with headquarters in the resort city of Cancun.
In one debacle last spring, American officials said, officers of the military intelligence unit recognized two of the most important traffickers in the Cancun organization, Ramon Alcides Magana and Albino Quintero Meraz, but made no attempt to capture them.
On other occasions, American intelligence officials gave officers of the military unit home addresses and telephone numbers for each of the two traffickers. But again, officials said, opportunities to arrest the pair were lost.
Last October, the unit appeared to get an important break when it captured Gilberto Garza Garcia, the trafficker who oversaw the mafia's movement of cocaine shipments from Cancun up the gulf coast to McAllen, Tex.
But United States and Mexican officials said that after negotiating with the general who headed the military unit and promising to help him trap Mr. Magana, Mr. Garza Garcia was placed in the custody of two detectives from whom he escaped the next day.
(The general has since been reassigned, Mr. Garza has been recaptured and the detectives have been under investigation since being found with more than $20,000 given to them by the trafficker.)
The White House drug-policy chief, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, suggested that such short-term failings should not distract the United States from its ultimate goals for Mexico. And while he and other White House officials have often tried to silence law-enforcement agencies that are critical of Mexico's performance, he did not hesitate to offer his own view on certification in advance of the Administration's deliberations.
"I think what we ought to do is look at U.S. national interests in the long term," General McCaffrey said.
"Do we think that partnership with Mexico is important to us and is beginning to show signs of substantial cooperation? My own advice" to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright "is they should be certified."
Mexican officials have undertaken a similarly aggressive defense of their efforts, lobbying more intensively in Washington and spending $100,000 a month to hire three high-profile lobbying firms to assist them in getting their message out.
Mexican officials have also held out to United States officials the possibility that they might yet deliver a spectacular, last-minute blow in the drug fight, one that could erase questions on Capitol Hill about their willingness to move against the mafias.
Skeptical American officials have taken to calling this notion "the February surprise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: While Washington officially praises cooperation by Mexico in anti-drug efforts, some aides privately say its record is especially bad now. In Mexico City, two ex-addicts washed clothes on a rehabilitation center's roof. (Reuters)
 
Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Mexico's Battle Against Drugs Falters"
As the Clinton Administration weighs its annual evaluation of Mexico's cooperation in fighting illegal drugs, the amount of drugs seized by Mexican authorities has fallen.
 
Graph tracks drug seizures by Mexican authorities since 1992.
(Source: Mexican Government)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EXTRADITION (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



329 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Union Is Cited In Pilot Dispute And Faces Fine

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
A Federal judge in Dallas cited the union representing American Airlines pilots for contempt yesterday and fined it at least $10 million for ignoring his back-to-work order, as the pilots' continued sickout stranded tens of thousands of passengers on a busy holiday weekend.
Judge Joe Kendall said the fine could ultimately be far more than $10 million because it was intended in part to reimburse American for the losses it had suffered from the weeklong sickout. American estimates that the job action has cost it more than $40 million. 
 As the labor dispute dragged on, some pilots who had called in sick began returning to work, although airline terminals remained crowded and passengers' tempers flared as their anger at the pilots mounted.
On Friday, lawyers for American, the nation's second-largest airline, asked Judge Kendall to hold the pilots in contempt and to issue "a coercive fine" for failing to end the sickout despite his Wednesday order directing them to do so.
In a scathing written ruling, Judge Kendall of the Federal District Court in Dallas said, "Unfortunately, the radical element that appears to be in control of the Allied Pilots Association seems determined to fly American Airlines into the side of the mountain, taking themselves, the company, their co-workers and their customers with them."
The judge ordered the union to deposit $10 million with the court on Tuesday pending his determination at a Wednesday hearing of the level of damages American has suffered because of the sickout.
Judge Kendall also found the union's president, Richard LaVoy, and its vice president, Brian Mayhew, to be in contempt, stating that they had acted only half-heartedly in telling pilots to end the sickout following his Wednesday order.
He directed Mr. LaVoy to deposit $10,000 with the court and Mr. Mayhew, $5,000, although he suggested that these amounts as well as the $10 million deposit were "much less than the probable actual damages" that would be ordered.
But the judge did not rule out the possibility of ultimately fining the union less than $10 million -- something labor experts suggested could happen if the union and the airline worked out a deal.
After the judge's ruling, several union leaders emphasized that they were strongly urging pilots to return to work. But other union members said the rank and file was debating how to respond, with some hard-liners suggesting that they continue their sickout to pressure American in the union's dispute over the airline's acquisition of Reno Air, a small airline serving the West.
"There is a split right now," said one pilot on the sick list, who spoke only on the condition that he not be identified. "Some hard-liners are saying stay the course; others are saying it's time to go back to work to support the union but fight the battle in other ways."
Several pilots said they might support a fallback strategy, a refusal to work overtime -- a move that would be less disruptive than a sickout, but would still force American to cancel some flights.
American said at 7:30 A.M. yesterday that about 2,100 of its pilots had called in sick, down slightly from Friday, but still enough to cause the airline to cancel more than one-third of its 2,250 scheduled flights yesterday. At midday, American said the number out sick had dropped to 1,700, representing almost one-fifth of the airline's 9,200 pilots.
American officials said 845 flights were canceled yesterday, down from 1,102 on Friday. The airline also announced that more than 400 flights scheduled for today would be canceled and more than 200 flights tomorrow would be canceled.
The conflict grew out of American's purchase in December of Reno Air. American has said that it intends to merge Reno Air, which has 25 planes and 300 pilots, into American's much larger network, but that it will take as long as 18 months to refit Reno Air's planes and retrain pilots at both airlines.
But the union contends that American is violating a clause in its contract requiring that all flying at the airline and any subsidiaries be performed by members of the pilots' union. The pilots have voiced concern that American might transfer some of its flying to pilots at Reno Air, who are paid about half as much as American pilots.
Many pilots are also worried that if the union does not make a stand now, it will have set a dangerous precedent if American acquires an even larger airline in the future.
The union has demanded that the company immediately raise the Reno pilots' pay to the level of American pilots -- a move the company estimates would cost $50 million. It also wants to put the Reno pilots at the bottom of the seniority list.
"It is this court's view that a minor labor dispute has been transformed into nothing more than a shakedown," Judge Kendall wrote in his ruling. "Even though it may indeed be more economical for American to cave in and pay, in the long run if you pay extortion today, you typically have to pay it tomorrow. When the pitch is 'pay us what we want or we will cost you more,' it is the type of negotiation one usually sees when doing business with one of the five families in New York."
The two sides said yesterday that they hoped to resume negotiations within days.
In the Friday hearing, Judge Kendall scoffed at the union's leaders when they insisted that they were doing everything possible to persuade their members to return to work. He said he found it disturbing that 12 of the union's 18 board members had called in sick that day.
But Mr. LaVoy, the union's president, repeatedly told the judge that he was doing his utmost to get the pilots to end their sickout.
Late Friday, the union stepped up the urgency of its messages calling on pilots to return to work. In the union's telephone message and on its World Wide Web site, Mr. LaVoy said: "I want to make a personal plea to all of our pilots. The association's leadership needs your help in complying with Judge Joe Kendall's order. We need to get this airline back up and running at full capacity, and we need to do so quickly."
But Judge Kendall said the union's efforts to tell pilots to return to the cockpit were too little, too late.
On Friday, the pilots' representatives, responding to the judge's questioning, estimated that the union had about $38 million in net assets.
Judge Kendall's ruling warned, "If the activity and consequent damages continue, when all the dust clears, all the assets of the union, including their strike war chest, will be capable of being safely stored in the overhead bin of a Piper Cub."
At O'Hare International Airport outside Chicago yesterday morning, Del Dooling, 43, a salesman from Riverside, Calif., was so angry about the cancellation of his Friday flight to San Juan that he vowed never to fly American Airlines again.
"The service has been wretched," he said. "It's just horrible. Everything is going wrong." Mr. Dooling added that in his view the pilots should face a harsh penalty for defying the judge's order. "It should be prison and a big fine," he said.
At Miami International Airport, Gertrudis Gonzalez, 21 a student from Managua, Nicaragua, complained about being stranded for more than a day because her Friday morning flight to the Nicaraguan capital was canceled. "We went hungry, they gave us nothing to eat," she said. "We were left wondering along the passageways."
The dispute forced passengers, travel agents and American service representatives to show a lot of resourcefulness. Standing in the American terminal yesterday morning at Kennedy International Airport, Patrick Reed, a plumbing wholesaler from Albany, complained about the cancellation of his flight from New York to Vancouver. But he managed to make alternative arrangements on a Trans World Airline flight to Chicago and then a Cathay Pacific link from Chicago to Vancouver.
While relieved about his rerouting, Mr. Reed remained angry at American's pilots, saying, "I think the pilots have long since made their point, and they're being very selfish."
There were also long lines and frayed nerves at the ticket counters of the rival airlines that were accepting American's passengers.
After Judge Kendall issued his ruling, the airline issued a statement, saying, "Regrettably, this illegal job action left American with no options other than canceling thousands of flights with little or no notice, which caused great hardship to tens of thousands of travelers."
The airline added that it hoped to regain public confidence. "But before we can do that, we need to restore our operations and take care of our passengers," it said.
Few analysts expect that American will suffer long-term damage, despite pledges by some passengers never to fly the airline again. "Consumers have the attention spans of monkeys," said Michael Boyd, an aviation consultant in Evergreen, Colo. "They just forget real quick."
Fare reductions and other incentives will draw passengers back once a settlement is reached, he said.
"The long-term damage," Mr. Boyd said, referring to American, "is the continuing shattering of trust between the airline and its pilots."
The pilots group, which is not part of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has received little support from most other unions or from its main rival, the Air Line Pilots Association.
The pilots' dispute has inconvenienced other union leaders by complicating the plans of many to fly to Miami for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s annual winter meeting, which begins on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of American Airlines pilots are defying a court order and continuing to call in sick, leaving passengers like Diane Dawson, at O'Hare Airport in Chicago, stranded and frustrated on a holiday weekend. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Harry and Connie Pilossoph of New York waited at Miami International Airport on Friday after their flight on American was canceled. They were going to the Caribbean island of St. Martin for a Valentine's Day wedding. (Reuters)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SAINT MARTIN (59%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES; ALLIED PILOTS ASSN AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (82%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; ALLIED PILOTS ASSN ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (82%); ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SAINT MARTIN (59%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS; FINES (PENALTIES); LABOR; OVERTIME; PILOTS AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); JUDGES (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DAMAGES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; KENDALL, JOE (JUDGE) JOE KENDALL (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



330 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Struggles to Keep 2 Shippers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Executives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey are scrambling to prevent two shipping lines that transport billions of dollars' worth of cargo through the harbor from moving to Baltimore, even as New York and New Jersey are locked in a bitter struggle over subsidies intended to keep them here.
Sea-Land Service and Maersk Line, whose sprawling operations at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal in New Jersey handle a quarter of all the container cargo moving through the port, have threatened to move to Baltimore, which has a harbor with deeper channels and has offered subsidies that would cut their costs by tens of millions of dollars. The two carriers, which together have about 1,000 employees and a $100 million payroll, rejected the Port Authority's last offer in September. 
 Top commissioners at the Port Authority, Lewis M. Eisenberg of New Jersey and Charles A. Gargano of New York, are to review a new proposal from the carriers on Tuesday; that may lead to talks that will narrow the gap between New York and Baltimore.
The negotiations have taken on increasing urgency because Sea-Land's long-term lease in Elizabeth expires at the end of the month and Maersk's leases expire over the next 16 months. The two companies, which have an operating alliance, say they will make a final decision in March on whether to build a hub port for North American trade in Baltimore or greatly expand the one at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal.
But it remains unclear whether New York and New Jersey can forge a united front to deal with Sea-Land and Maersk. The leases have become entwined in the growing disputes between the two states over the Port Authority. New York, which has taken a tougher stance with the companies, contends that New Jersey has long received too much of the agency's revenue.
The issue has emerged as the port is poised to invest billions of dollars in new construction and deeper channels to accommodate the huge hulls of a new generation of container vessels. The changes are aimed at tripling the port's cargo volume.
"This is an absolutely crucial issue," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, a private planning group. "We risk losing a significant portion of the shipping industry to Baltimore and Halifax, Nova Scotia. We'd better get serious about retaining this business or we're going to see a serious economic engine weakened."
New York and New Jersey diverge in their approaches to the negotiations. Fearing that the departure of Sea-Land, a unit of the CSX Corporation of Richmond, and Maersk, owned by the Danish conglomerate A.P. Moller, could prompt other defections, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey and her representatives at the Port Authority have been more willing to compromise.
Given the fierce competition in the industry, Sea-Land has said it cannot afford the rent proposed by the Port Authority, which would jump immediately from about $19,000 an acre annually to $36,000 and rise to $106,000 over the life of a 29-year agreement. Governor Whitman is now assembling a package of tax breaks and other incentives to sweeten the deal.
Mr. Gargano has taken a harder line with the companies, which his supporters say are unlikely to relocate because much of their cargo is destined for the New York metropolitan region. According to one Port Authority official, the rent proposal rejected by Sea-Land and Maersk already had a hefty subsidy built into it, because the Port Authority would be spending $456 million more on dredging and bulkhead improvements than it would get back in rent.
"Those companies are bluffing," the official said. "This is supposed to be a negotiation. But New Jersey has practically written them a blank check."
Port Authority officials say that Hanjin, the giant Korean shipper, has signed an agreement with the authority to build its own terminal in Elizabeth and at a higher rent than is now being proposed for Sea-Land.
David Shuman, a transportation consultant with R. L. Banks & Associates who has worked with Baltimore, shares some of Mr. Gargano's skepticism about the companies' true intentions, particularly after Vice President Al Gore announced in January that the Federal Government would provide 75 percent of the costs of a five-year, $733 million dredging project in New York Harbor. The announcement addressed the most important demand by Maersk, which is building a fleet of deep-hulled ships.
"Gore's announcement was devastating news for us," Mr. Shuman said. "Our sense was that it's New York's to lose and the other ports were being strung along."
But Tommy Tomsen, president of Maersk, insisted that his company was not using Baltimore as a bargaining ploy. "We're not bluffing," he said. "Baltimore has developed a real alternative. This decision could go either way."
James White, executive director of the Maryland Port Administration, acknowledged that every port on the Eastern Seaboard that competed for Sea-Land and Maersk "wondered whether they were serious." But, he said, the port administration's proposal to build a 335-acre facility at the Dundalk Marine Terminal has won the attention of the companies' executives.
New York's stand has alarmed some politicians.
In a letter to Gov. George E. Pataki, Assemblywoman Elizabeth A. Connelly of Staten Island complained that New York's "take it or leave it" approach with the carriers was threatening jobs at the Howland Hook container port on Staten Island, as well as in Elizabeth.
Mr. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority, said he was concerned about the loss of jobs. "We're making every effort possible to accommodate Sea-Land and Maersk," he said. "But there are limits."
James Devine, general manager for Sea-Land in Elizabeth, said the Port Authority was unfairly seeking to recover the cost of dredging the harbor from the carriers. Instead, he said, those costs should be borne by both states. "They're coming at us for the historic pollution and siltation of the New York harbor," he said. "That's what's driving the costs to untenable levels."
There is no question that the negotiations did not get off to an auspicious start in the spring of 1997 with an incident that was either a misunderstanding or a signal that both sides should be ready to play hardball. During an outing at the Fiddler's Elbow golf course in New Jersey, a Sea-Land executive, Nick Taro, welcomed the new executive director of the Port Authority, Robert E. Boyle, saying the two men would be seeing a lot of each other at the upcoming lease negotiations. According to shipping industry executives, Mr. Boyle responded: "There won't be any negotiations. We'll give you a price and you'll sign."
Port Authority executives do not dispute the remarks, but they now say that Mr. Boyle thought Mr. Taro was referring to another, unrelated maritime issue.
After months of fruitless talks, Sea-Land and Maersk issued an invitation to other East Coast ports to bid for their business.
In July, Maersk highlighted the need for dredging in New York Harbor by bringing into Elizabeth the Regina Maersk, the largest ship ever to steam into the harbor. Maersk explained that much of the massive ship's cargo had to be unloaded in Halifax before it could navigate the relatively shallow channels in New York. The message was clear: if New York and New Jersey wanted the carriers to stay put it had better find the money to dredge the harbor for a new generation of super ships.
At the same time, the lease has become a bargaining chip between New York and New Jersey. If New Jersey wants help for the maritime industry, New York wants additional funds for new airline terminals at Kennedy International Airport.
"If we're going to satisfy New Jersey," said a senior New York official, "then we need something, too."
Joan Verplanck, president of the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce, took a dim view of the disputes.
"The bottom line," she said, "is that while they're duking it out on minor issues, we may see a major shipping industry literally go south."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sea-Land Service and Maersk, two large shipping lines, are threatening to leave the Port of Elizabeth for Baltimore. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 37); The Maersk and Sea-Land lines handle a quarter of the container cargo moving through the Port of Elizabeth. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (94%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (94%); CSX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (94%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (84%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (84%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; PORT OF ELIZABETH (NJ); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (94%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); CSX CORP (84%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (58%); NEW YORK (96%); PORT AUTHORITY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; PORT OF ELIZABETH (NJ); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE NEW YORK (96%); PORT AUTHORITY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); ELIZABETH (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; PORTS PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



331 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 30;Column 3;National Desk

LENGTH: 3109 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON'S ACQUITTAL: THE DIALOGUE;
Behind Closed Doors, Senators Spoke Plainly and Pointedly

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES and FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13

 BODY:
Deep within the Senate's secrecy, resounding beyond the boilerplate of printed statements submitted for history, the impeachment jurists of President Clinton had their say as well in some plain-spoken language of the moment.
"We must remember that the fooling around was between consenting adults, both of them sexually experienced," Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, noted in his avuncular drawl, speaking for himself, not his speechwriter, in the closed-door company of his Senate peers. 
 One of the folksiest of lawmakers, Mr. Hollings relaxed and honored the trial court by employing that simpler term -- "fooling around" -- never used in the impeachment articles nor in the luridly detailed accusations of the criminal prosecutors who pursued the President.
Such human glimpses of the Senators' hidden deliberations have been hard to come by. But as the closed trial proceedings were further documented today in The Congressional Record, some began appearing in public.
"We are seeing right now why I had to make my money selling frozen peas," Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, a food wholesaler, confessed, playing the humble businessmen agog at all the constitutional lawyering going on about him.
As senator after senator arose and gravely tolled the morality stakes of the issue, from self-government to their own proud procreation, Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, could not resist some ribbing of his fellow jurists.
"Mr. Chief Justice, it seems to be a prerequisite to speak today for senators to indicate the number of grandchildren each has," he began. "I am proud to say Nancy and I have 11, but I won't indulge you with naming each of them."
Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell, Republican of Colorado, scored those members with "soap opera" proclivities who regularly "ran pell-mell" to the waiting television cameras during trial recesses.
"I sit right there in the back row 15 feet from the cloakroom," he noted of his desk quite near the exit doors. "But at each recess, by the time I walk to the cloakroom and glance at the TV, some of my colleagues have already sprinted somewhere else to be in front of the cameras. As you know, I used to be on the U.S. Olympic Team, and I tell my speedy friends -- you could have made the team."
Beyond the needed resorts to humor, a sense of the struggle in the verdict deliberations clearly comes through, even when speakers rambled beyond the Constitution. They grieved in midtrial at the death in an auto accident of the Senate's beloved legislative clerk, Scott Bates.
"His absence should serve as a reminder that although we have been totally engrossed in this issue for far too long, there is life outside of these doors," declared Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington. Ms. Murray told of sharing the sidelines with Mr. Scott when their daughters played soccer games in nearby Virginia. "There are friends to be hugged, kids to be educated, parents to take care of," Ms. Murray emphasized before the impeachment court.
 For all the learned citations of the founding fathers culled by dedicated staffers for the prepared speeches, the emerging trial record seems richer when Senators just got up and ruminated a bit about their own histories as courthouse practitioners.
"When I tried cases, I learned from a man named Sid Balick," said Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware. "He used to say at the outset to the jury: 'Keep your eye on the ball. The issue is not whether my client is a man you would want your daughter to date, a man you would invite home to dinner. The issue is, did my client kill Cock Robbin? Period.' "
As usual, Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of W. Virginia, could be counted on for a sonorous recitation of anonymous verse from memory. "Mr. Chief Justice," he began:
I think my country sinks beneath the yoke,
It weeps, it bleeds,
And each new day,
a gash is added to her wounds.
But Mr. Byrd's classicist's taste seemed no match in the record for another well-read senator, Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, who touched closer to the carnival spirit of the yearlong ordeal. "Mark Twain once said, with tongue in cheek, that 'the next best thing to a lie is a true story no one will believe,' " Mr. Dorgan reminded the chamber. "Well, this sorry chapter in our rich history embraces both. Lies, yes! And truth that is almost unbelievable."
Historians who must sift through the carefully reasoned contentions in yards of prepared verdict decisions would do well not to overlook the aside of wonderment when Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, oratorically pinched himself. "I had a lot of far-fetched dreams as a boy," he said. "But never once did I dream that I could serve with all of you on the floor of the U. S. Senate."
The pain of the task, not the honor, was underlined by Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, when he recounted a sorry note he received from a school principal about an assembly devoted to American heroes. It included an "Attitude Is Everything" video, and at the first sight of President Clinton, Mr. Grassley said, "the entire student body -- ages 11 to 14 -- snickered."
While the trial was of the President, some of the senior politicians could not resist including their track records in the record. Jesse Helms noted, as he so often does, that he was "the first Republican directly elected to the U. S. Senate by the people of North Carolina."
But he was hardly deferred to by Blanche Lincoln, Democrat newcomer from Arkansas, who, in her first speech to the Senate, introduced herself "as the youngest female Senator in the history of our country, as a farmer's daughter raised on the salt of the earth with basic Christian values, and as a young mother whose first priority in life is my family and the well-being of the world that they live in."
Another freshman, John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina, rose and confidently told Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist that he was putting aside his prepared remarks to speak from the heart. In first praising the judge, Mr. Edwards recalled the last time he had seen Chief Justice Rehnquist.
"You were leading a sing-along at the Fourth Circuit Judicial Conference," the Senator ad-libbed. "I thought it might be a good idea for this group."
The Chief Justice, no slave to the official record himself, got a laugh when he shot back, "A healing device."
As the money poured out, Thailand's deep structural problems became suddenly apparent to investors. Indeed, the countries with far stronger financial institutions weathered the storm much better -- the capital flight that devastated Thailand left Taiwan and Singapore with only mild damage. As a result, economists are still arguing about what combination of free capital flows and structural flaws truly spelled disaster.
One common vulnerability in many of the hardest-hit countries was that like Japan in the late 1980's, they had enjoyed speculative bubbles fueled by cheap credit.
The giddiness ended up creating havoc with the banking systems, for it resulted in what might be called the three excesses: excess borrowing, excess investment and excess capacity (meaning factories and equipment that are kept idle because of lower-than-expected demand).
These excesses were so widespread that their effects can be seen not just in the capital cities, but even in remote places like the Indonesian town of Mojokerto.
Salamet, a rickshaw driver who lives with his wife and three children on the edge of Mojokerto, always used to pay cash for purchases. But about five years ago, banks and finance companies began to pioneer a credit system even for the poorest people.
So Mr. Salamet and his wife, Yuti, bought furniture on installments. They paid for their son Dwi's school uniform on installments as well.
Mr. Salamet used to rent his rickshaw, a dilapidated contraption that looks like a love seat being pushed by a bicycle. But as the neighborhood prospered, Mr. Salamet dreamed of moving up in the world. He borrowed from the bank and bought a banged-up secondhand rickshaw with a red seat, promising to pay the equivalent of $4 a month for 14 months. He thought he would be able to earn the monthly payment in just a few days on his rickshaw, and so it seemed the perfect investment.
As it turned out, he bought in at the peak of the rickshaw bubble.
A decade ago, the area had about 100 rickshaws, and each of the drivers could earn about twice as much as a farm worker. But the advent of rickshaw financing, coupled with the general enthusiasm for moving up in the world, led to an explosion of rickshaws. Now there are 300.
"These days there are more rickshaws than the area can support," grumbled Rutiati, a 37-year-old woman who is a rickshaw agent, arranging financing for Mr. Salamet and others in the neighborhood. "There are more rickshaws than passengers."
Mr. Salamet and Mrs. Yuti (who like many Indonesians use only one name) have a plan to overcome the family's difficulties.
"I figure I'll start a little shop in front of our house here," Mrs. Yuti explained, beaming. "It seems it's a good way to make money on the side. And if we're hungry, we can always eat the shop's food."
The problem is that the neighborhood is also suffering from a shop boom. Banks in Mojokerto began lending to households wanting to open stores in their living rooms, and all the cheap credit and optimism in Mojokerto led to the same problem locally as around the world.
The number of shops in the neighborhood soared to 20, from 3. The banks in Mojokerto are scrambling to recover the loans they made to stores, but it seems the banks miscalculated when they assumed that the groceries would remain as collateral. Borrowers have taken the collateral and eaten it.
 
Asia Follows Japan
In retrospect, Japan was exporting its bubble to Asia. Japan had gone through one of the most dazzling stock and real estate manias in history. At the peak, in 1990, the land underneath the Imperial Palace in downtown Tokyo was said to be worth as much as all of California.
Then prices steadily tumbled, leading to an $8 trillion decline in financial assets and to Japan's continuing troubles today. This recession meant that Japanese banks had few good lending opportunities at home, and so they began lending elsewhere in Asia -- and since yen interest rates were extremely low, the loans were alluring to borrowers.
Thus began the "carry trade," which was initially highly profitable but ultimately catastrophic. It took many forms, but typically financial institutions would borrow yen at 2 percent interest rates, convert the proceeds into Thai baht, and reap the differential: baht deposit rates were about 10 percent.
Meanwhile, Japanese manufacturing companies also began building factories all over Asia. Between 1986 and 1996, Japanese private investment in Asia added industrial potential equivalent to three Frances.
All this was in many ways wonderful for Asia, resulting in an investment boom and low interest rates. But the deluge of cheap loans and foreign investment resulted, not surprisingly, in a huge increase in capacity to make everything from steel to paper to cars. The world now has the ability to manufacture 60 million cars a year, even though there is demand for about 44 million.
A few alarm bells went off. Citicorp has a Windows on Risk committee, a group of senior executives who meet regularly to discuss problems that may erupt in the future, and in May 1996 the committee invited Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to a conference room in Citicorp Tower to give his views.
"Krugman said he thought the Asian model was running out of steam," recalled William R. Rhodes, vice chairman of Citicorp. "He told us that after 10 years of unsurpassed growth, the boom in Asia was over, and the area was going to face some major adjustments."
"I think he was the person who triggered the concern for us," Mr. Rhodes said. "We started to adjust our exposure accordingly."
Mr. Rhodes was particularly sensitive to credit risks, because in the early and mid-1980's, he was the point man for the Western banking system in dealing with the Latin American debt crisis. A fluent Spanish speaker, Mr. Rhodes had worked in Latin America and had seen the conventional wisdom about the region's prospects suddenly transformed almost overnight in August 1982, when Mexico missed a debt payment and the crisis began.
It was because of those memories that American banks were generally more careful in the 1990's in Asia than they had been in the 1970's in Latin America. American banks were comparatively cautious about their borrowers in places like Bangkok and Moscow, while European banks developed a reputation for being willing to lend to just about anybody with a business card.
 
Assigning Blame
 So what were the causes of the crisis?
There are two main camps in the academic battleground. One, led by Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard University, argues that the crisis was essentially a panic, in which investors rushed for the exits because everybody else was rushing for the exits. The other, initially led by Mr. Krugman of M.I.T., argues that the hardest-hit countries had fundamental weaknesses that sealed their fates.
Still, there is general agreement that there were both structural problems and a panic, even if there is a critical dispute about their relative importance. The most common view is that several key factors worked together to set the stage.
The countries had severe internal vulnerabilities. These included weak banking and legal systems, overvalued currencies, and mountains of short-term loans in dollars and other foreign currencies. And investors delivered the coup de grace, panicking and frantically pulling their money, so that currencies plummeted and capital dried up in these countries.
The banking system was frail because of several built-in flaws.
First, Asian companies borrowed too much from banks. In the United States, companies tend to raise money on the stock and bond markets, and only 22 percent of corporate debt is held by banks. But in Asia, 80 percent of corporate borrowing is from banks, much of it in short-term loans.
Second, companies borrowed for the short term but invested in long-term projects like hotel construction. This was risky because if the banks did not renew the loans and instead asked for repayment, the money would be sunk in half-completed buildings.
Third, companies and banks borrowed in dollars and yen even though the returns would be in baht and other local currencies. This seemed safe as long as Thailand maintained its currency peg of 25 baht to the dollar. But if it devalued to 50 baht (which had seemed inconceivable but eventually happened), borrowers were devastated.
Suppose a developer borrowed $1 million, converted it to 25 million baht, and began to construct a hotel with an expected value of 40 million baht. When the crisis hit, the hotel's value fell to only 15 million baht, but the devaluation meant that the developer had to pay back 50 million baht. In country after country, these kinds of calculations spelled bankruptcy.
Moreover, Asian banks often lent money on the basis of connections or government instruction, without much credit analysis. In South Korea, by some estimates, half of bank lending was made at the direction of Government officials.
So, even before the crisis hit in July 1997, nonperforming loans (those that borrowers are not repaying) made up 15 percent or more of total loans in Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia. That compares with just under 1 percent in the United States.
This financial scaffolding was fragile enough, but then it was forced higher and higher because of speculation that inflated land and stock prices in most of Asia.
In Asia in the early 1990's, property prices soared into the stratosphere, such that in 1994 a parking space in Hong Kong sold for $517,000. Scholars have long noted a dangerous spiral whereby inflated property prices became inflated collateral for inflated loans, which further inflate property prices and start the cycle along again, until the whole edifice collapses.
By 1997, according to one ranking, the three most expensive rental locations for retail stores were 57th Street in New York, Causeway Bay in Hong Kong and GUM department store in Moscow. The crisis has sent prices plummeting in Hong Kong and Moscow, as New York remains unfazed, the costliest retailing location in the world.
In an economy that is all speculative froth, even the stupidest investments tend to pay off initially, so one result was a lot of foolish investments.
"Investors wanted to hear a good story to buy your shares," recalled Vichit Surapongchai, president of Radanasin Bank in Thailand. "It was like the tail wagging the dog. Because you wanted your shares to make a lot of money, you tried to think of what projects you should invest in. There was less viability of projects to start with."
The intellectual trend has changed in every way since the crisis began. Emerging markets are now seen as risks, not opportunities. And the ethos that drove the wave of investment in small countries -- the triumphalism of free markets for capital as well as for goods -- has abated. Now it is fashionable to talk about the dangers of unregulated free capital flows and the need for caution in opening them up. One result is that although the United States economy is so far unscathed, American credibility is not.
As Seichi Kondo, a senior Japanese Foreign Ministry official, puts it, "Washington wasn't the major source of the crisis, but it added considerably to the worsening of the situation. If they haven't learned lessons, if they still think it was Asian values that prolonged the crisis, then I have to blame Americans. But I think the United States has learned a lot from the crisis."
"Of course," he added pointedly, "the learning cost has been very expensive for Asian countries."
 
Global Contagion
 
YESTERDAY
The new economic landscape and the people it touched.
 
TODAY
How the United States, seeking freer capital flow, knocked on poorer nations' doors and got a warm welcome.
 
TOMORROW
From Asia to Russia to Brazil, markets intertwined in sometimes dangerous ways.
 
THURSDAY
The autopsy of a world crisis, and what it tells some experts about avoiding future ills.
 
For past coverage of this issue, including the other articles in this series, visit The New York Times on the web:
 
www.nytimes.com/international 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Sunday about the Senate's acquittal of President Clinton misattributed a verse recited by Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia:
I think my country sinks beneath the yoke,
It weeps, it bleeds,
And each new day,
a gash is added to her wounds.
The verse is not anonymous; it is by Shakespeare, from "Macbeth." And as he wrote in "Hamlet":
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong.
A picture caption on Tuesday about Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, with an article about the global financial crisis, carried an incorrect credit. The photographer was Robert Grossman for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Ernest F. Hollings, avoiding legal terms, spoke in the deliberations of the "fooling around." (Associated Press)Photos: President Clinton and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin have taken the American zeal for free trade a step further, urging freer capital flow. Some economies were too fragile to bear the effects. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); METROPOLIS FOR SALE OR RENT -- The real estate development of Muang Thong Thani near Bangkok has boutiques and detached homes as well as two dozen high-rises. But the Thai economy's collapse has kept it a ghost town. (Peter Charlesworth/ Saba, for The New York Times); TREASURY TEAM -- Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, right, and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, left, the dynamic duo of freer capital flow, at a 1997 Hong Kong meeting of the World Bank. In Asia, a Thai official recalled, the two men were pushing on an open door. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Chart: "Where the Money Comes From . . ."
 
LOANS TO EMERGING MARKETS
How much banks in each region had in outstanding loans to emerging markets as of mid-1998.
 
Europe*: $536
Japan: $211 billion
Britain: $120 billion
U.S.: $120 billion
 
*The 11 European nations that have adopted the euro: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
 
ONE EXAMPLE: THAILAND
 
Total outstanding bank loans to Thailand by nationality of bank, as of mid-1998. banks.
 
FINLAND: $83 million
LUXEMBOURG: $101 million
SPAIN: $165 million
ITALY: $315 million
AUSTRIA: $567 million
CANADA: $586 million
BELGIUM: $1.0 billion
U.S.: $1.8 billion
NETHERLANDS: $1.8 billion
BRITAIN: $2.1 billion
FRANCE: $3.9 billion
GERMANY: $5.3 billion
JAPAN: $26.1 billion
 
+Higher total includes additional loans made by affiliates and branches of banks operating outside their countries of origin, and loans made by Swiss banks.
 
. . . And What Happens When It Dries Up
 
Capital flooded into emerging markets in the 1990's, and then -- beginning in the summer of 1997 -- dried up. Similar drops in private capital flows heralded the debt crises in the developing world in the early 1980's and in Mexico in the mid-1990's. Here are the total private capital flows into and out of three areas, in billions of dollars.
 
1997 ASIA
Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, South Korea and Thailand.
 
'94: +$41 billion
'95: +$77
'96: +93
'97* (CRISIS) -$12
'98* (CRISIS) -$9
 
* Estimated.
 
1995 MEXICO
 
'92: +$25 billion
'93: +$31
'94: +$13
'95: (CRISIS): -$11
'96: +$17
 
1982 DEVELOPING WORLD**
 
'79: +$25 billion
'80: +$41
'81: +$51
'82 (CRISIS): +$20
'83: -$9
 
**The 13 hardest-hit countries: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Equador, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Mexico, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru and Venezuela.
 
(Sources: Bank for International Settlements; Institute of International Finance; International Monetary Fund)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (94%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); FINLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); BELGIUM (90%); AUSTRIA (88%); NETHERLANDS (86%); ARGENTINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MOROCCO (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); PERU (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (59%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (94%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); FINLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); BELGIUM (90%); AUSTRIA (88%); NETHERLANDS (86%); ARGENTINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MOROCCO (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); PERU (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); VERDICTS (75%); ACQUITTAL (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (67%); WHOLESALERS (52%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GORDON SMITH (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



332 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Full Circle at Union Square

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
AWARD-WINNING restaurants jam the surrounding streets, and theaters have popped up nearby. Offices in newly renovated buildings teem with new media and publishing ventures. Greenmarket stalls overflow with fresh produce, and stores bustle with customers. Even a new luxury hotel is about to join the mix, smack in the middle of booming, trendy Union Square.
Union Square? Trendy? 
 Down at the heels for decades, known mostly for discount stores and drug dealers, the area took a turn for the better in the late 1970's and 1980's, when the park was renovated and a Greenmarket begun. Today, although many discounters remain and improvements could still fade -- the real-estate recession of the early 1990's stalled the revitalization, for example -- the transformation is accelerating. Suddenly, just as it was during its heyday more than 100 years ago, Union Square is where to go for dining, for theater and for stylishness in general.
"I think Union Square is not just emerging," said Jeffrey T. Blau, a vice president for the Related Companies, which has announced plans to convert the old Guardian Life Insurance building on the northeast side of the square into a 250-room hotel after Guardian moves to lower Manhattan later this year. "I think it has already emerged."
Mr. Blau ought to know. Related is among the most active builders in the area. In addition to developing the proposed hotel, which is to be managed by Starwood Hotels and Resorts as either a Westin or a W Hotel (the most stylish of Starwood's brand names, which also include Sheraton), Related has renovated the landmark Century building on Union Square North. That building, constructed in 1881, is now home to a Barnes & Noble store.
More recently, Related built a 27-story apartment tower at Broadway and East 14th Street that also houses a Virgin Megastore, Manhattan's first Circuit City and a United Artists multiplex theater, the borough's first with so-called stadium seating. All are doing well, said Mr. Blau, who attributes the area's success in part to the vibrant office market on lower Broadway, lower Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue South, where many publishing, architecture, new media and advertising firms are located.
Danny Meyer, proprietor of the Union Square Cafe on East 16th Street, agrees. He said that the migration of such concerns from midtown is what drew him to the area in 1985, when it was still better known "as a place for illicit herbs than for fresh herbs." With the park cleaned up and the number of offices greatly expanded, things have only improved, Mr. Meyer said.
Then there are the theaters in what was New York's Theater Row in the 19th century. "We're the new heart of Off Broadway," said Daryl Roth, who opened the Daryl Roth Theater just last May. She is also on the board of the Vineyard Theater and is a producer of "Wit" at the Union Square Theater and of the forthcoming "Snakebit" at the Century Theater. All four theaters are within a stone's throw of Union Square Park.
Of course, all is not perfection on 14th Street. There is "a great deal of congestion, above ground and below," said Lola Finkelstein, chairwoman of Community Board 5. She referred to the badly aging Union Square subway station and the motor traffic pouring through the mazelike crossroads of Broadway, Fourth Avenue and Park Avenue South. And a dog run in the southwestern corner of the park is a mess, she added.
There is also uncertainty about what will happen to Bradlees, the discount store that anchors the southern side of Union Square on 14th Street, on the site of what once was Mays. The Massachusetts discount retailer emerged from bankruptcy protection this month on the condition that it sell back its lease to its landlord, Vornado Realty, and surrender the store premises by March of next year. At that point it may be leased in whole or part to another retailer.
Despite speculation in the trade press about other retailers eyeing the space, Vornado has not yet made any plans for it, said Roanne Kulakoff, a Vornado spokeswoman. Target, Sears and J. C. Penney have been mentioned in published reports.
Still, given the pace of nearby development, it seems unlikely that the space will be empty for long. So vibrant is the area that David Gmach, executive director of the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District, said that he believes that all of 14th Street is catching the fever, from river to river.
Examples of new development include two new New York University dormitories on East 14th Street (there is already one on Union Square West); the arrival of galleries and restaurants on the west side, near the Hudson, and the impending redevelopment of the Sahara Hotel on Third Avenue, a single-room-occupancy hotel that has long been an eyesore.
Does that mean that Union Square will forever lose whatever raffish flavor it still retains, and that the bazaarlike discount stores along 14th Street will disappear entirely?
"No, we're not looking to become another Madison Avenue," Mr. Gmach said. "We're New York's best-tasting neighborhood."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A map last Sunday with an article about the revival of Union Square mislocated two buildings adjoining the park and omitted part of one building's name. The Guardian Life Insurance building is at the northeast corner of Park Avenue South and 17th Street, not the northwest corner. The theater, the Daryl Roth, is at the northeast corner of Union Square East and 15th Street, not the southeast corner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In lithograph at right, circa 1830, fashionable town houses surrounded the square. A 250-room hotel is planned for the Guardian Life building, above, while a Virgin Megastore has opened to the park's south. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times and Museum of the City of New York (top right))
 
Chart: "Timeline: How the Square Fared"
 
1811 -- The square, called Union Place because it unites Broadway and Fourth Avenue, is laid out. With a gated park, it soon becomes home to the affluent.
1850's - 1880's -- Several theaters open. Delmonico's, Luchow's and other fancy restaurants dot 14th Street, and Macy's and Tiffany cater to the rich.
1900 - 1910 -- As the city's commercial heart moves north, factories, many of them sweatshops, move in. Homes turn into tenements. The square becomes a center of political and labor protest.
1910 - 1920's -- Real estate values plummet, burlesque houses multiply and S. Klein's and Ohrbach's begin selling their discount clothes.
1940's - 1970's -- Decline continues, with shuttered stores and drug dealing.
1980's -- Zeckendorf Towers, with apartments, offices and retailers, is built on the S. Klein's site. Revitalization of the square begins. (Sources: WPA Guide to New York; 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District)
 
Map: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Past, Again"
Some of the developments in the continuing return of Union Square to its past prosperity. Map showing the location of Union Square

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (55%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNION SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; THEATER BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); MUSIC STORES (72%); RESORTS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); LIFE INSURANCE (52%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



333 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2947 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Gospel to the Rich

BYLINE: By ALEX PRUD'HOMME 

 BODY:
THE Roman Catholic Church has always struggled to speak with one voice to both the rich and the poor.
Last month, when Pope John Paul II toured Mexico and St. Louis, he sternly warned against a runaway free-market system based on a "purely economic conception of man." But he also exhorted church leaders not to forget the wealthier members of their flock. "Love for the poor must be preferential, but not exclusive," he said. "The leading sectors of society have been neglected, and many people have thus been estranged from the church." 
 Among the Pope's avid listeners was Thomas S. Monaghan, the founder of Domino's Pizza Inc., who has long struggled to balance his own conflicting impulses towards God and Mammon.
Late last year, Mr. Monaghan sold most of his stake in Domino's, the world's largest pizza-delivery chain, to Bain Capital Inc., a private investment firm, for a reported $1 billion. And inspired by the Pope, he vowed to devote the rest of his life -- and his money -- to spreading the Gospel, especially among the business elite.
"Financially, it would have been much better for me to hold onto the company for another 20 years," said Mr. Monaghan, 61, who remains chairman emeritus of Domino's, which is based in Ann Arbor, Mich. "But I don't want to take my money with me when I go, and I don't want to leave it for others. I want to die broke."
Mr. Monaghan plans to use his fortune to finance a network of Catholic schools, starting with Ave Maria College in Ypsilanti, Mich., and to support politicians who oppose abortion. He also wants to promote his conservative agenda through Credo, a newspaper; WDEO, a radio station he owns, and the Thomas Moore Law Center, a new Catholic law firm supported by his Mater Christe Foundation. All are in Ann Arbor.
But most of all, he is focusing his attention on Legatus, a lay support group for Catholic executives and their spouses that he believes can "change the world."
The idea for Legatus (Latin for ambassador) came to Mr. Monaghan in 1987 as a "divine inspiration," he said, after he met the Pope for the first time, in Rome. He patterned the group after the Young Presidents' Organization, an international support group for business leaders. But while Y.P.O. is devoted to making its members better executives, the goal of Legatus, according to the mission statement, is to encourage Catholic executives to "study, live and spread the Faith in our business, professional and personal lives."
Legatus now has more than 1,300 members in 25 American chapters and nascent groups in Canada, Mexico and Honduras. Some 275 members and spouses gathered last weekend in Phoenix for the group's annual conference.
But Mr. Monaghan, his company-building days behind him, thinks he can build Legatus into a major force -- his goal is 10,000 members or more within five years -- using the same zealous, uncompromising approach he employed in forging his global network of Domino's stores. A recent gift from the Mater Christe Foundation doubled Legatus's annual budget to $3 million.
"A disproportionate number of C.E.O.'s are Catholic, and there must be at least 100,000 who would qualify for membership," Mr. Monaghan said. "What I can do is set a good example and get people fired up about the church. It's what businessmen do: They see a need and fill it."
He would just as soon have Legatus, not Domino's, be his legacy. But he expects to encounter obstacles. "If Legatus's work is going to be as important as I think it is, we're going to have a lot of enemies -- namely the Devil," he said. "He's a fallen angel, very intelligent. And his spirit is loose in the land."
 
Orphanage to Seminary To a Pizza Kitchen
Tom Monaghan always wanted to be a priest. After his father died on Christmas Eve in 1941, Tom was placed in a Catholic orphanage. (His younger brother, Jim, has been quoted as saying that their mother could not control the boys.) There, as Mr. Monaghan tells the story, Sister Berarda taught him that God and the Golden Rule were the most important things in life. But as a 10th grader at the St. Joseph's Seminary in Jackson, Mich., he was expelled for pillow-fighting and whispering in chapel.
"I was temperamental as a young man," Mr. Monaghan said. "The rector decided I didn't have the vocation for the priesthood." What he did have a vocation for, it turned out, was the pizza business -- and controversy.
In 1960, he and Jim borrowed $900 and bought a struggling pizzeria in Ypsilanti, called DomiNick's. A year later, Jim traded his share for a used Volkswagen Beetle. Meanwhile, Tom built the business into Domino's.
It wasn't always easy. In 1970, he dismissed everyone but his wife and the bookkeeper to avoid bankruptcy. But by last year, Domino's had 6,250 outlets worldwide with sales of about $3.3 billion and pretax profits of roughly $75 million. Mr. Monaghan owned 98 percent; the rest was owned by other family members and longtime employees.
With success, Mr. Monaghan developed a reputation for both religious devotion and publicity-hungry materialism. He arranged for a priest to say daily mass at Domino's headquarters. And, happily mugging for the media along the way, he collected everything from an island resort to an $8.1 million Bugatti Royale sports car, a $500,000 Frank Lloyd Wright bedroom, and, in 1983, the Detroit Tigers, who would win the World Series the next year. His infatuations were all-consuming, though transitory.
He also became an outspoken advocate of a traditional, politically conservative brand of Catholicism. In 1988, his faith-based politics and his business collided when the National Organization for Women led a nationwide boycott of Domino's to protest Mr. Monaghan's support of anti-abortion groups. The controversy -- along with boycotts by homosexuals and other groups -- angered some Domino's franchisees and colored the company's image.
Mr. Monaghan founded Legatus a year after the American bishops of the church issued a letter critiquing Reagan-era capitalism and calling for fair wages, stronger unions, a guarantee of full employment and other economic policies that took the powerless into account.
The letter drew strong reaction from leading Catholic conservatives like the theologian Michael Novak and William E. Simon, Treasury Secretary in the Ford Administration (and later a Legatus member), who defended free-market capitalism. But Mr. Monaghan was not part of the debate.
"Tom Monaghan is not concerned with politics or the lay culture," said Mr. Novak, who was a speaker at the Legatus national conference last weekend. "His point of reference is the personal. He founded Legatus when it was right for him."
For Mr. Monaghan, the late 1980's were a time when his interest in managing Domino's day to day was waning, while his Catholic activism was rising. He underwrote construction of a mission in the Honduran mountain town of San Pedro Sula and paid $3.5 million of the $4.5 million cost of building a cathedral in Managua, Nicaragua, that was favored by the conservative Miguel Cardinal Obando y Bravo and opposed by liberal Catholics.
In 1988, he was made a Knight of Malta, thus joining an international charitable group with a conservative cast. He also hired several members of the Word of God, a charismatic Catholic group active in right-wing causes, though Mr. Monaghan says he was never a member himself.
Critics began to say that religion was merely a stalking horse for his political agenda.
"His goal is to spread his conservative ideas, and he just waves a thin veil of religion in front of them," said Barbara A. Pott, coordinator of a Michigan branch of Call to Action, a liberal Catholic organization.
Mr. Monaghan is indifferent to such talk. "The things I do always bring out praise and criticism," he said. "It doesn't bother me. You have to do God's will."
He acknowledged, however, that he was neglecting Domino's at the time. Competitors introduced new menu items and upgraded their computer systems. Domino's floundered, burdened with a half-billion dollars in debt, and Mr. Monaghan tried unsuccessfully to sell the company.
It was C. S. Lewis's book "Mere Christianity," which uses everyday situations to explore the fundamentals of Christian faith, that helped him regain his equilibrium, Mr. Monaghan said. After lying awake one night thinking about what a "bad" person he was, Mr. Monaghan said that he decided to renounce his big sin: pride.
Rededicating himself, as he put it, to, "God, family and pizza," Mr. Monaghan in 1991 began selling off his collections at fire-sale prices. Drummond Island, a Lake Huron resort for which he had paid $28 million, sold for $3 million; the Bugatti went for $5 million. He even sold the Tigers to Michael Ilitch, the chief executive of rival Little Caesar Enterprises.
He restructured Domino's debt, invested in computers, laid off 600 administrative employees, devised new products like a pizza with garlic in the crust and, in 1993, abandoned the company's signature 30-minute delivery guarantee, which was a lightning rod for lawsuits.
By 1996, the company was in its best financial shape ever, with money to pour into a $150 million image-freshening campaign and to add outlets in India and China. Then, last May, in Rome, Mr. Monaghan decided it was time to sell the company once and for all.
 
Taking Pentecost To the Board Room
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God, the New Testament says. But for members of Legatus, the pursuit of faith and trade are -- or are supposed to be -- complementary.
"C.E.O.'s have the biggest need of spiritual guidance of any group of individuals anywhere; they can get so carried away with their own perceived value to the human race," said J. Michael Hagan, a Legatus member who is chief executive of the Furon Company, a publicly traded plastics maker in Laguna Niguel, Calif., with 3,300 employees. "Ego can destroy you," he said. "The best way to keep your ego in check is through spiritual contemplation."
The last few years, the workplace has increasingly served as an organizing platform for spiritual quests by business people of many faiths -- lunch-hour and after-work Bible, Torah and Koran study groups, for instance. But a religious organization of corporate leaders can still raise eyebrows.
"Cynics might say, 'Here are a bunch of good old boys who made a pile of money on earth, and now they want to buy some heavenly insurance,' " acknowledged the Rev. George Rutler, a priest of the Archdiocese of New York who serves as national chaplain of Legatus. "There is a tendency to strike a rather condescending stance towards businessmen; it's assumed that a successful entrepreneur has stolen money from the poor. But many of our members marvel at their own success, or are even a bit threatened by it."
Once a month, Legatus chapters -- which range in size from 10 couples in Canton, Ohio, to 70 couples in Detroit -- convene at a chapel for mass, then move to a hotel or restaurant for dinner and a lecture by a church or lay person. The idea is to give executives and their spouses a chance to pray and reflect, to talk about integrating faith into their secular lives and to be educated.
Lecturers at various chapters have included Sister Helen Prejean, the author of "Dead Man Walking" (Random House, 1993), who spoke about inequities of capital punishment; a rabbi speaking on Jewish-Catholic relations; Catholic psychiatrists on homosexuality, and a writer on why "Angels Aren't Just Pretty Things." Luminaries who have spoken before national or local meetings of the group include former President Ronald Reagan, former United States Court of Appeals Judge Robert H. Bork and John Cardinal O'Connor of New York. Last weekend, at the national conference in Phoenix, William J. Bennett, the author and former Education Secretary, filled in as a speaker for Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois -- who was busy in Washington with the impeachment proceedings.
The members of Legatus come from 675 companies in a wide range of businesses. They can be the chairman, chief executive or president of a company with at least 30 full-time employees and annual sales of $5 million (or with 10 employees and $100 million in annual business for financial services companies). About 5 percent of members are lower-ranking corporate officers or board members at much larger corporations. Retired executives can belong, too. Of the more than 1,300 members, 31 are women who own businesses.
Dues range from $1,200 to $2,000 a year, depending on the chapter, and each member is expected to contribute $550 to the national office every year, with 10 percent of that money given to the Vatican as a tithe. Last year, after 50 members traveled to Rome with Mr. Monaghan -- a trip that included an audience with the Pope -- the group sent a check for $250,000 to the Vatican and asked that the money be used for the Holy See's charities in Croatia.
While some members have enlisted for spiritual education, others are motivated by social issues.
"I see myself as Christ's ambassador to the marketplace of health care," said Adeline A. Laforet, chief executive of Health Care Professionals Ltd., a medical staffing service in Southfield, Mich. "I believe there is a terrible hunger for faith right now, and I want to tap into that energy and evangelize the marketplace.'
James D. Davidson, a professor of sociology at Purdue University who spoke to the Indianapolis chapter, said: "I was surprised by the range of views expressed when I asked their opinions on faith and morals. Some were very traditional, but others were clearly exploring other points of view. They weren't authoritarian or closed-minded. They're the same kind of people I run into at the country club."
What many members share -- and discuss at Legatus meetings -- is the experience of having their faith and ethics tested by challenges at work.
When Albert H. Langsenkamp, chief executive of the Sigma/Micro Corporation, faced a financial squeeze a year ago, he had to lay off several of his 75 or so workers.
"This was personally very humbling," said Mr. Langsenkamp, whose closely held Indianapolis company develops computer systems. "As chief executive, I felt I had done something wrong to get us into that situation. The Golden Rule says treat people as you wish to be treated. I apologized to the workers," he said, and "asked for their cooperation and forgiveness."
Because Mr. Langsenkamp is largely compensated by dividends, he took a financial hit when the company did; his laid-off employees were given 30-days' severance.
Mrs. Laforet of Health Care Professionals said, "Legatus is absolutely the reason I learned to take a stand on ethics in the workplace." When it looked last fall as if the Michigan Legislature might pass a measure legalizing assisted suicide, she helped rally opposition with a mass mailing to everyone in the company's data base.
"It was the first time we as a company took a stand on anything, and we won a magnificent victory," she said, noting the bill's defeat. "Part of our business is to deal with end-of-life issues, and we do not believe it's O.K. to die in a van with Dr. Kevorkian."
 
A Possible Conflict Of Church and Business
It remains to be seen how long Legatus will hold Mr. Monaghan's notoriously fickle attention and how his personal style, which he describes as "intense," will affect the organization.
The majority of members run privately held companies. But about 20 percent are executives of publicly held businesses and are therefore more vulnerable to criticism from shareholders, directors, analysts or customers who take issue with the church's views on hot-button topics like abortion, divorce, assisted suicide and homosexuality.
Indeed, though J. Peter Grace, the late chairman of W. R. Grace & Company, was a charter member, there are few heads of major, publicly held corporations on the group's roster. Mr. Monaghan said that when he asked Roberto C. Goizueta, who was the chief executive of Coca-Cola, to join the group, Mr. Goizueta declined because he was concerned about the reaction of shareholders. Mr. Goizueta died in 1997.
Still, members who head publicly held companies say their faith does not get in the way of doing their jobs. "I accept fully the church's position on those issues, and I've made no secret of my feelings," said William R. Burleigh, chief executive of the E. W. Scripps Company, the Cincinnati-based owner of newspapers and television stations. But, he said, "these are matters of intense importance, and they need to be discussed," adding, "I accept others' points of view no matter how vigorously I disagree with them."
Other ranking executives who belong to Legatus include Frank A. Olson, the chief executive of the Hertz Corporation, and Harry J. Longwell, an Exxon Corporation senior vice president. Wellington Mara, owner of the New York Giants, is also a member, along with Roger Staubach, the former Dallas Cowboys quarterback who is now a Texas businessman.
Mr. Monaghan's plan to expand Legatus rapidly has some members fretting that the organization will create an unwieldy bureaucracy.
But Legatus is Mr. Monaghan's mission now, and when you are wrestling with the Devil, you don't play games.
"I listen to every idea, and if I don't agree I give a decisive but sensitive response," he said. "That's what I did with the franchisees my whole career. Legatus is a volunteer group. If people don't like what I'm doing, they can go form their own organization."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 14 about Thomas S. Monaghan, the founder of Domino's Pizza, whose new project is Legatus, a lay support group for Roman Catholic executives, misstated the name of a foundation that supports the group. It is Mater Christi, not Christe. The article also misstated the name of a Catholic law firm supported by the foundation. It is the Thomas More Law Center, not Moore.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Monaghan at an audience with Pope John Paul II in Rome last year. He says the Pope has inspired him to devote his life -- and much of his Domino's Pizza fortune -- to spreading the Gospel. (Legatus); Mr. Monaghan largely financed construction of the cathedral in Managua, Nicaragua, which was opposed by liberal Catholics. (L. Legorrete/Legatus); At the annual conference of Legatus, the Roman Catholic business group he founded, Thomas S. Monaghan, second from left, met with Bill Bidwill, owner of the Arizona Cardinals, and Mr. Bidwill's wife, Nancy. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 13); Tom Monaghan, the founder of Domino's Pizza, worshiped with other members of Legatus, a Catholic executives' group, at St. Thomas the Apostle Church in Phoenix. (Jeff Topping for the The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); ITALY (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (84%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (88%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; LEGATUS DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (84%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (69%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (59%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; LEGATUS ARIZONA CARDINALS (59%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); ITALY (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (84%); ROME, ITALY (88%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); FAST FOOD (74%); ABORTION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PRUD'HOMME, ALEX; MONAGHAN, THOMAS S POPE JOHN PAUL II (92%); THOMAS S 'TOM' MONAGHAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



334 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Geezer Nation

BYLINE: By David Kusnet; David Kusnet, a visiting fellow at the Economic Policy Institute, was the chief speech writer for President Clinton from 1992 through 1994.

 BODY:

Gray Dawn
How the Coming Age Wave
Will Transform America -- and the World.
By Peter G. Peterson.
280 pp. New York:
Random House. $23. 
 A successful investment banker and former Secretary of Commerce, Peter G. Peterson has carved out a second career as a Cassandra in search of a catastrophe. A "deficit hawk" since the early 1980's, he has written several books and many magazine articles warning that the Federal budget would balloon and the economy would decline without deep cuts in Social Security and Medicare.
Now that the Federal deficit has been eliminated and the economy reinvigorated without his harsh remedies, Peterson has found a longer-term problem for his program to solve. First in "Will America Grow Up Before It Grows Old?" and now in "Gray Dawn," Peterson warns that with increasing life expectancies and declining birthrates, almost one in four people in the developed world will be 65 or older by 2030. And in the United States, "the benefit outlays for just five programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and Federal civilian and military pensions -- will exceed total Federal revenues by the year 2030."
Much of this is familiar to readers of "Will America Grow Up Before It Grows Old?" Indeed, "Gray Dawn" includes many anecdotes, catch phrases and quotations that appeared in the earlier book. But unlike its predecessor, "Gray Dawn" explores the aging of the entire developed world and offers a provocative introduction to an issue whose implications extend well beyond government budgets.
Thinking globally helps Peterson become less alarmist and more analytical. With the highest fertility rate in the developed world, an openness to immigrants and a tradition of private pension plans, the United States, he acknowledges, should be better able than its counterparts to cope with the "age wave." In many of the most interesting sections of "Gray Dawn," Peterson explores the social, cultural and geopolitical consequences of the aging of advanced societies -- issues that he has been among the first commentators to address comprehensibly.
How will we care for growing numbers of the oldest of the old -- people 85 or older? How will we develop the productive capacity of today's young people who will be tomorrow's workers and taxpayers? And will national identities erode or xenophobic movements arise as advanced societies accept more immigrants to shore up their shrinking work forces? These questions will dominate public debate, and Peterson deserves credit for raising them.
Still, he returns to his preoccupation with painful prescriptions, like raising the retirement age well past 65. He avoids the issue of how to humanize work, easing physical or emotional strains so that workers could stay on their jobs longer. And even when it comes to those who find work more exciting than exhausting, Peterson would have done well to admonish his corporate colleagues. As long as technical and managerial employees are passed over for promotions at 40 and downsized at 50, it will be difficult to keep them in the work force at 70, except as greeters at retail stores or hamburger flippers at fast-food restaurants.
For all his revulsion against Social Security, which he calls a "Ponzi scheme" that has undermined the American virtues of self-reliance and filial obligation, Peterson would have done well to ask why America's largest generation, the baby boomers, were the children of an America that had only recently created social insurance programs. Bringing so many children into the world was an act of faith by families who believed that their fellow citizens would honor their obligations to each other, across the lines of class and generation. Now, as Peterson observes, our future depends upon the productivity of a relatively smaller number of children -- many of whom are growing up in poverty or in immigrant families. While it is important to secure the fiscal soundness of Social Security, it is just as urgent to strengthen the bonds of social solidarity that the program represents and our nation still requires. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GRAY DAWN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LITERATURE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); FERTILITY RATES (68%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); MEDICAID (55%); 

PERSON: KUSNET, DAVID; PETERSON, PETER G PETE PETERSON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



335 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 14, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: The Bumpy Path To a New Republic

BYLINE: By T. H. BREEN; T. H. BREEN teaches early American history at Northwestern University.

 BODY:
DURING his first administration as President of the United States, George Washington organized the most important trips in American political history. In two long tours in 1789 and 1791, he traveled the primitive roads of the new republic from the present State of Maine to Savannah, Ga. At the time, Washington offered several explanations for his ambitious enterprise: a desire to restore his health, a need to escape the suffocating burdens of office, and a wish to survey the famed battlefields where American troops had so recently fought the British army.
But the driving force energizing the trip was political, not personal. Washington wanted to assess the "temper and disposition of the inhabitants toward the new government." Ratification of the Constitution had not been easy -- at the moment the President first raised the idea of touring the states, Rhode Island and North Carolina had not yet joined the Union. Washington feared that local critics of a strong government might resist Federal authority. Perhaps more to the point, the President sensed -- as he had as leader of the Army during the Revolution -- that he represented more than an office. He symbolized the entire republican experiment, and in the early years of his Presidency, he wanted as many citizens as possible to see the figure who embodied their common hopes for the new nation. 
 Washington set off on the first leg of his journey in mid-October 1789. Accompanied by several members of his personal staff and a small body of servants, he visited Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The enthusiastic reception along the road pleased the President. Local leaders and militia companies as well as ordinary men and women welcomed Washington, sometimes so effusively that he felt not a little embarrassed. He traveled through New Haven, Hartford and Worcester, Mass., noting with pleasure the enterprise and prosperity of the people. "The Country hereabouts is beautiful and the Lands good," the President proclaimed.
For a man who so often extolled the virtues of agriculture, Washington paid close attention to the struggling textile factories of New England. Boston provided the most memorable moment of the tour. As Washington noted, "we passed through the Citizens classed in their different professions, and under their own banners, till we came to the State House; from which, across the Street, an Arch was thrown; in front of which was this Inscription -- 'to the Man who united all hearts' and on the other -- 'To Columbia's favourite Son.' "
Before he began his journey, Washington insisted that he would stay only in public houses, the taverns and inns that were the sole accommodations for travelers at the time. He did not want to inflame local political rivalries by seeming to prefer one private host over another. Maintaining the principle was harder than Washington had anticipated. Obtaining reliable information about taverns and inns proved difficult. Many facilities met his expectations, but a few disappointed Washington, who scribbled in his diary that Perkins's Tavern in Pomfret, Conn., was "by the bye not a good one." Ozias Marvin's Tavern in Fairfield, Conn., was even worse. The President declared it "not a good House" and would only eat bread and milk, apparently rejecting unsavory items listed on the menu. The travelers sometimes got lost, and like generations of frustrated tourists, Washington complained that the roads "are amazingly crooked, to suit the convenience of every Man's fields; & the directions you receive from the People equally blind & ignorant."
When, after 28 days, he returned to New York, then the nation's capital, Washington declared the New England tour a success. Pleasant memories mitigated less happy experiences. The President had been moved by a visit to Lexington, Mass., where he viewed "the Spot on which the first blood was spilt in the dispute with Great Britain on 19th of April 1775." During a more relaxed moment near Kittery in the province of Maine, Washington had tried his hand at ocean fishing, something he had never done before. The cod refused to cooperate, how ever, and only the initiative of a local fisherman, Zebulon Willey, saved the day. Willey, who hooked a fish, passed his line to Washington. The grateful President landed the cod, and according to local legend, rewarded Zebulon with a silver dollar.
Washington had to postpone what he termed his Southern "line of march" until the spring of 1791. He devised his itinerary carefully, leaving eight extra days on a journey of almost 2,000 miles for "casualties" such as bad weather and breakdowns. On this trek he rode in a handsome chariot recently restored by the Clark brothers of Philadelphia (there is a replica of it at Mount Vernon). He set off on this adventure with five other men, a special baggage wagon and several extra horses, one of them his beloved white charger Prescott.
The Southern tour started with near disaster. Although one contemporary predicted that Washington's trip "may induce the Overseers of Roads and Ferry-Keepers to mend their Ways and repair or build new Boats," the travelers nearly drowned crossing a river in Maryland. A barge went aground, forcing the President to spend a stormy night in wet clothes, and on another occasion the coach horses exited a ferry before it reached shore, threatening to drag the entire party into deep water.
However attentively Washington planned his line of march, he could never be certain of the quality of the inns. As in New England, some provided excellent service. New Bern, N.C., for example, offered "exceedingly good lodgings." But other public houses, such as one near the village of Halifax, N.C., did not meet minimal standards. After a hard day on the road -- he often departed before dawn -- Washington discovered that the establishment where he intended to stay, "having no stables in which the horses could be comfortable, & no Rooms or beds which appeared tolerable, & every thing else having a dirty appearance, I was compelled to keep on." The physical demands of the journey through the "pine barrens," a trip that took the President to Wilmington, N.C., and then south along the coast of South Carolina, exhausted the horses. Washington, who paid close attention to the welfare of the animals, predicted that after the ordeal, they "will not cut capers as they did at starting out."
The people of Charleston, S.C., outdid themselves greeting Washington. Thirteen American sea captains in festive uniforms rowed the President across the harbor, and as they neared the dock, a male chorus on the deck of a ship belted out: "He comes! He comes! The hero comes. Sound, sound your trumpets, beat your drums, From port to port let cannons roar, His welcome to our friendly shore." Washington loved the city, taking a few of his "casualty" days as an unabashed tourist. He visited Revolutionary battle sites, reminisced with old friends and attended an almost endless round of receptions. On May 9 he left for Savannah, where he turned back north.
Just after crossing into Virginia on June 4, Washington reflected on what he had learned in the South. The region, he concluded, had considerable economic potential. The challenge was improving river transportation so farmers could market crops more easily. Washington has little positive to say about public accommodations in the South, describing them as "extremely indifferent." In fact, outside cities such as Charleston, inns were generally "small and badly provided either for man or horse." The unsatisfactory public entertainment, he concluded, can "be accounted for from the kind of travelers which use them." After all, what sort of facilities could one expect to find on roads that chiefly serviced "Wagoners & families removing; who, generally, take their provisions along with them?"
But problems connected with lodging were minor irritants. As Washington had discovered during his New England tour, the ordinary people of the new republic expressed optimism about the country's future. Commentators who seldom deserted the comforts of the capital may have murmured about possible faction and unrest. But when Washington left that overheated political environment, he encountered Americans who were "orderly and Civil. And they appeared to be happy, contented and satisfied with the general government under which they were placed."
Travel restored the President's proper sense of balance. "I am much pleased that I have taken this journey," Washington told his old friend David Humphreys, "as it has enabled me to see with my own eyes the situation of the country thro' which we traveled, and to learn more accurately the disposition of the people." The trip had been a masterpiece of political theater. Washington returned to the seat of the Federal Government with renewed confidence in the republican experiment; he reminded his admirers along the road that they -- strangers to one another -- now shared a powerful new national identity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Washington, by Houdon, at Mount Vernon. "A View From Bushango Tavern," near Yorktown, 1788. (Mount Vernon Ladies Association)(pg. 9); A triumphal welcome for Washington on April 20, 1789, at Gray's Ferry near Philadelphia. (Library of Congress) A replica of the carriage that Washington used for his southern trip at Mount Vernon. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (74%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (51%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (74%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (70%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); FABRIC MILLS (61%); TEXTILE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: WASHINGTON, GEORGE (1732-99); BREEN, T H DAVID DAVIS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999



336 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: This Time There Was No John Dean

BYLINE: By James Q. Wilson; James Q. Wilson, an emeritus professor at U.C.L.A., is the author of "Moral Judgment" and "The Moral Sense."

DATELINE: MALIBU, Calif.

 BODY:
The widespread popular support for President Clinton and his acquittal by the Senate worry me. Have the American people become disengaged from a moral view of public life? The President was charged with perjury and obstruction of justice. There is a great deal of evidence consistent with both charges, and yet the man remains not only in office but also politically popular.
It would be easy to dismiss Mr. Clinton as a child of the 1960's -- a talented, unconstrained, self-centered individualist who recognizes no limits on his own behavior unless they directly and palpably harm another person. Yet, no matter how hard Kenneth Starr and the House managers tried, they could not shake the public's view, and thus the view of many in Congress, that the whole business was "just about sex" and not about the rule of law. 
 I am troubled by this because I both believe in the rule of law and have a deep and lasting faith in the wisdom of the American people. If these two beliefs are now in conflict, where do I turn?
I am struck by the fact that President Clinton never had to face a knowledgeable personal accuser. Senator Arlen Specter has said that what he witnessed was a sham trial, and in one sense he is right. No one close to Mr. Clinton told the public that the President lied or worked to keep the truth secret. Monica Lewinsky was induced to admit she had an affair with the President but denied he had told her to lie. Betty Currie did not say Mr. Clinton had tried to influence her testimony.
By contrast, when Richard Nixon was impeached, John Dean, a man close to and often in the Oval Office, talked at length. And when tapes of White House conversations were played, we heard Nixon himself, sometimes in blunt and even vulgar language, talking about obstructing justice. This turned the public against Nixon. So did a struggling economy.
In the recent scandal, there were witnesses, but the public did not hear them. Many Americans read the Starr report, but it included no testimony from any witnesses in a position to say that the President had obstructed justice. In contrast with Watergate, no witness was ready to go over to the prosecution.
President Clinton's case depended on circumstantial evidence. But so does the case against almost anyone who breaks the law out of sight of a police officer or a disinterested observer. That is why we have trials -- to weigh circumstantial evidence.
We had no true trial of Mr. Clinton. The Democrats can take much credit for this. They did not want witnesses during the impeachment hearings, they wanted those hearings over quickly, and then they joined with many Republicans to keep witnesses out of the Senate trial. And if witnesses had been called, it would have taken a lot of time to get the needed testimony from them, because the case against Mr. Clinton would have had to be built up out of the total context of his behavior.
Compare the Clinton case with the trials Mr. Starr conducted. In virtually every case he won. Much evidence was circumstantial, some was direct. But at a trial, jurors take evidence seriously. They look people in the eye and judge their credibility. In this case, they never looked anybody in the eye except the President.
The American people never heard from a knowledgeable insider who had broken with the President and supported the charges against him. What, then, should we make of the people's view that impeachment was a mistake and that he is doing a good job as President? We should not make much of it, I think.
We should not suppose that Americans have abandoned morality, constitutionalism and the rule of law in exchange for a good stock market and low unemployment rates. They have heard enough to convince them that President Clinton has a bad character. Most probably don't want their daughter to marry him. But they have not heard enough to remove him from office.
I wish they had not reached that conclusion. Mr. Clinton acted not only shamefully but illegally. He set himself above the rule of law. He got away with behavior that is denied to the military officers he commands. He has set himself apart from people who have gone to jail for perjury.
His great personal skills -- at talking and evasion -- help explain this. But his survival is also explained by the fact that he is President. The American people revere the Presidency. They will not let a President be driven from office save by their votes or by the testimony of a clear and compelling witness. Americans treat Presidents differently from others, just as they treat politicians generally differently from others. They hold them all accountable for making the country work right. If politicians succeed at that, they are cut some slack -- unless there is a damaging witness.
What really needs to be explained is why the Republicans pursued impeachment in the teeth of these political realities. Some may have done it because that is what their districts wanted. Some did it because they were prepared to do the right thing, whatever their constituents thought. And some did it because of a peculiar feature of the American political system.
That feature is called the direct primary. It offers a chance for a small number of hard-core voters, liberal or conservative, to challenge incumbents. People determined to remove President Clinton can create real mischief in even strongly Republican districts by threatening to withhold campaigns money or promising to field a rival candidate.
If only a third of the voters turn out in a general election, and if there are three or more candidates for Republican nomination, something like 10 or 15 percent of a district's voters can control the election by choosing the nominee. This process affects Democrats, too, but in this case they were voting with the mood of their activist core.
Without John Dean and White House tapes, the House Republicans were left with nothing but the Starr report and an appeal to the rule of law. It was not enough. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); WATERGATE AFFAIR; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DEAN, JOHN W; STARR, KENNETH W; WILSON, JAMES Q; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) BILL CLINTON (94%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



337 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Slate Drops Its On-Line Subscription Fee

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
It was an important test of one facet of Internet commerce: Would readers pay an annual subscription rate of $19.95 for the privilege of reading a magazine on line?
If the tale of Slate magazine, which is owned by Microsoft, is any indication, the answer is no. Ten months after deciding to charge readers $19.95 a year, the publisher of the on-line magazine announced in an E-mail notice to subscribers that, as of last Friday, it would now be available free on the World Wide Web. 
 Michael Kinsley, Slate's editor, said that the decision was not a setback.
"Obviously, you don't like to reverse course," he said. "You try one thing, you try another. It's a stage in the learning process."
In the E-mail to subscribers, Scott Moore -- who was named publisher of the on-line magazine last Monday -- wrote that there were two reasons for the change. "First, the advertising market on the Web has continued to expand at a remarkable pace, " he wrote. "It roughly doubled in 1998 to about $1.8 billion, is predicted to grow to about $3 billion in 1999, and should continue a healthy 50 percent to 60 percent annual growth rate for the next several years."
He explained that "the biggest problem with remaining paid was that doing so would restrict our advertising potential."
"We're confident," he wrote. "that by making slate.com free, our audience will grow substantially and this will make us more attractive to advertisers."
The second problem, Mr. Moore wrote, was that, on the Web, "paid subscriptions for content (other than smut and investments) simply have not grown as expected."
Under the new arrangement, readers who pay $19.95 a year will get E-mail deliveries and print-out editions, and have access to the archives and general bulletin board of Slate, services that will not be provided free.
Bill Bass, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc., said that the issue was one of supply and demand. "Last year, I said this was the dumbest thing I had ever heard," he said. "There is so much free content on the Web that if you try and charge for it people won't go to you. There is too much substitutable content."
He pointed to the fact that readers can look at Salon magazine, a Slate competitor, which is free. "It's like if Ford came out with a Taurus that cost $50,000. If I can get a Camry for $25,000, why would I pay $50,000 for a Taurus?" he asked.
Mr. Bass added that only two areas on the Internet can charge for their services: financial and pornography sites. He said that financial sites like thestreet.com and The Wall Street Journal's Web site are popular because they offer specific advice that few other sites offer, and the subscription prices can be written off as business expenses. "The only wildly successful sites that charge have been adult entertainment," he said. "And people tend not to act economically rationally around adult entertainment."
Patrick Keane, a senior analyst at Jupiter Communications, an on-line market research firm, pointed out the that there is also a psychological hurdle for consumers to overcome in paying for content on the Web.
"People see their personal computers as a utility device, and they're going to pay for information that leads them toward a task, or that helps them with a purchasing decision," he said. "So consumers don't have a natural proclivity to pay for content on line."
However, he added that the Internet is a maturing market. "After all," he said, referring to cable TV, "if somebody had told you in 1975 that you would be paying $40 a month for your television, would you have believed it?"
In an editor's letter posted on Friday, Mr. Kinsley answered what he expected would be readers' questions about the decision. "It's painful," he wrote, "to think of turning away so many Slate readers from so much of our content -- not to mention the potential readers who don't come in the first place. The spreadsheet wizards figure that ad revenue from the increased traffic will more than compensate for the lost subscriptions."
Slate's publisher, Mr. Moore, said that the paying subscribers number in "the high twenty thousands" and that the magazine was visited by 300,000 to 400,000 news users each month. Mr. Moore would not disclose Slate's ad revenue, which is charted by an internal group, MSN Advertising Sales.
Slate was started in June 1996 and, after some false starts, began charging last March. It has remained something of a sideshow in Microsoft's Internet strategy, which in earlier stages emphasized entertainment programming or local information but is now focused on building traffic to a home page, MSN.com, that directs users to both content and electronic commerce.
On its Web site Friday, Salon, which is published by Salon Internet Inc., crowed over the news, with a commentary headlined sardonically "Slate Rejoins the Web." Later, in an interview, David Talbot, the editor and chief executive of Salon, said that Slate's decision to charge readers "was a case of Microsoft's hubris" and "prevented other sites from linking to it, further restricting circulation."
"When you charge, it prevents other sites from linking to you, which is how the Web grows, when you become integrated to other Web sites through links," he said. "When you hit a gate as a reader saying you have to pay, Web sites stop linking to you."
Marisa Bowe, the editor of the on-line magazine Word, which is owned by the Zapata Corporation, said that she was not surprised at Slate's decision.
"So far, no one has really been willing to pay to read anything on the Web," she said. "It's a little heartbreaking for me to say, but the Web magazines are just not as important, yet, as the print magazines."
Mr. Kinsley said, "I think if she's going to be depressed about that, she's going to be depressed for a while."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Kinsley, editor of Slate, Microsoft's on-line magazine, at his offices in Seattle last year. Slate has decided to stop charging subscription fees. (Therese Frare for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (63%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (63%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PAYWALLS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; MOORE, SCOTT MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



338 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Is There News After Scandal?

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10

 BODY:
Call Chris Matthews an optimist. In the brand new studios of the CNBC show "Hardball With Chris Matthews," where he has spent the last year turning impeachment into entertainment, Mr. Matthews says he is actually upbeat about the end of the scandal that helped double his audience in the last year.
"In its birth, my show is the same as ABC's 'Nightline' was," he said. " 'Nightline' was born during the Iran hostage crisis. They survived. We've been introduced as a program covering one big ongoing story." 
 But now, he said, as the Year of Monica comes to a close, he is prepared for the New Age. "Jury nullification," he said, gesturing toward an article in The Washington Post. A minute later, he mentioned "the relinking of taxes and Social Security." Delivered with the right insight and attitude, he said, talk about angry jurors protesting the law by letting defendants go free can get just as many people to tune in.
His colleagues around Washington are not so optimistic, about his prospects or their own. Interviews with two dozen reporters and news executives found growing concern about public indifference to Washington news, as long as the economy flourishes and no American troops are in harm's way.
"Washington and politics used to be the hub of the news wheel," said S. Robert Lichter, president of the Center for Media and Public Affairs. "Now it's just another spoke."
Washington news is increasingly something for enthusiasts, said Thomas B. Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism. "Our mass media depends on an audience that no longer exists -- a mass audience which is now fragmented," he said.
Niche audiences are the bread and butter of cable television, with its channels for gardening and weather and now for Washington news. CNN's "Larry King Live" scored its best ratings in 1998, averaging 1.3 million households. "Hardball" reached an average of 552,000 homes in 1998, up from an average of 252,000 in 1997, its first year.
Compare the effects of the scandal on the evening news broadcasts of the three major networks. In 1998, 44 percent of all the Washington news reports on the evening broadcasts were about the scandal, according to the Center for Media and Public Affairs. Since September, these linchpins of the nation's general news coverage have lost more than two million households a night -- roughly the same total as the audiences of "Larry King Live," "Hardball" and CNBC's "Rivera Live" combined.
David Poltrack, vice president for audience research for CBS, supervised those network audience calculations. "For the past two years, while network ratings in general were declining, the most resilient ratings were those of the three evening newscasts," he said. Since September, he added, those programs have lost almost 6 percent of their combined audience.
The press corps that will now try to lure readers and viewers to news of Washington government and politics has changed in some fundamental ways in the last 25 years. When Richard M. Nixon resigned in 1974, newspaper and wire service reporters in Washington accredited to cover Congress outnumbered broadcasters almost 2 to 1. As the Lewinsky scandal ends, that ratio is now 3 to 2 in favor of the radio and television journalists and technicians.
Specialty reporting, mostly involving business and finance, has blossomed, while more traditional beat coverage of Cabinet departments like Interior, Transportation or Agriculture is increasingly episodic.
The generalists have hardly disappeared -- the bureaus of Reuters (with 55 staff members accredited to cover Congress during the 1997-1998 session) and The Associated Press (95) have grown significantly. And television programs like "News Hour With Jim Lehrer" on PBS provide wide-ranging and deep coverage of policy and politics (it had nearly 50 staff members accredited to cover Congress.)
Organizations like CNN, NBC, National Public Radio, The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and the news magazines still devote significant resources to Washington coverage; most are already gearing up for the Presidential campaign.
But more of the Washington press corps than ever covers news tailored to the audience's business interests -- witness the rise of the financial news services Bloomberg News (35 Congress accreditations) and Bridge News (30). More journalists than ever cover the city for a Washington-centric audience -- witness the rise of C-SPAN (135 staff members accredited to Congress) and Hotline, the on-line Washington news bulletin distributed by The National Journal.
In this increasingly splintered universe, some general news organizations are realigning. Peter Copeland, the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain's new bureau chief, is redirecting coverage to new beats like consumer affairs and entertainment.
At the Knight Ridder bureau, the emphasis on daily coverage will dwindle, bureau editors say. Instead of assigning 9 of its 14 Washington reporters to daily coverage, the bureau will devote 10 reporters to in-depth coverage of subjects like health, economics and science.
At coming meetings, news executives and representatives from CNN's 35 bureaus will discuss similar changes. Rick Kaplan, president of CNN/USA, said he wanted to reorganize the network's coverage, including Washington's, around "nine major subjects" -- education, religion, culture, family, money, saving cities, changing world, health and the Year 2000 problem.
This shift, he hopes, will reduce the network's dependence on big stories.
The press corps has changed in other ways. Senior journalists who were sought out by top Government figures once had a virtual monopoly on conveying the gist of policy debates. Now those officials can appear on cable programs and explain their views without any filters.
John F. Stacks, an executive editor at Time magazine who is writing a biography of the late James Reston, a columnist and editor of The New York Times, said columnists like Mr. Reston or Joseph Alsop would have background briefings with Presidents and senators, ask hard questions, and then dissect Government policy in print.
"The spin ethic, as opposed to the patient, off-the-record, background explanation has destroyed those people, destroyed the need for them," he said. Other journalists, however, point out that many officials still court influential journalists. It is just that fewer influential journalists work for newspapers and more are hosts of television programs.
But if cable's rise has eclipsed some journalists, it has elevated others with different, more television-friendly skills such as coming up with well-turned quips that crystallize a political situation. "Now the value is edge and attitude," Mr. Stacks said.
Edge, attitude and speed. Fast-forward from the 1960's to the "Hardball" set in 1999, to see some of the new permutations of the journalistic craft. It is Monday, the beginning of the last week of President Clinton's Senate trial. King Hussein of Jordan has just died, but Washington's journalistic and political circles are also talking about the journalist Christopher Hitchens.
An affidavit from Mr. Hitchens recounting a lunch at which, he said, the Presidential aide Sidney Blumenthal called Monica Lewinsky a "stalker" is on the mind of Lindsey Graham, a Republican Congressman who is scheduled to appear on the first segment of the program.
Mr. Matthews wants the latest news on his program; Adam Levine, the senior producer, is trying to fit all the elements of the show together. The bookers and producers fill his office as he rattles off the plans for the program's six segments.
"Do we really have room for Hitchens?" a booker asked. "I don't think so."
"I guess you're right," Mr. Levine replied. "You can't bump Al Haig." The former Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. is another scheduled guest.
In the final lineup, Lindsey Graham's version of the impeachment news got top billing, but General Haig and the funeral of King Hussein got more time. The show closed with an author talking about a new book on Muhammad Ali. Such a show -- a mix of subjects -- will survive even without scandal, Mr. Matthews said.
The point, he said, is not so much what the news is but how it is presented. Mr. Matthews, who is also the Washington bureau chief of The San Francisco Examiner, said he seeks to explain "the subtexts in political scripts." He sees "Hardball" as a direct descendant of "The Tonight Show" of the 1970's. "Johnny Carson brought audiences into a backstage conversation about Hollywood," he said. "This is a backstage conversation about politics."
Out in central Kentucky, where Jim Ogle is news director of WKYT-TV in Lexington, which reaches about 500,000 households, the audience wants no part of it. "The anger that people in my church and civic groups feel is intense," Mr. Ogle said. "They're saying, 'Please just stop telling us about it.' "
In early November, he decreed that no report out of Washington could be broadcast in the first eight minutes of his 90-minute early evening news program. His ratings for November were the best in that CBS affiliate's history. Since the change, WKYT-TV has captured 40 percent of the news audience, just under half as many homes as watched "Hardball" in 1998.
Pam Luecke, the editor of The Lexington Herald-Leader (circulation 112,000), was somewhat friendlier to Washington news when she and editors of 30 other Knight Ridder newspapers were polled by the company late last year about what kind of Washington news they wanted.
A majority called for less daily coverage, with the editors of The Philadelphia Inquirer strongly dissenting. In the wake of the scandal, Ms. Luecke wants "coverage out of Washington that will focus on how the Government is moving on."
"To the extent that the House and the Senate can get into meaty issues like Social Security and Medicare, we could use some good 'explainers,' " Ms. Luecke said, referring to in-depth analyses of policy.
Her tastes are traditional. Explainers are a staple of newspapers and news magazines, of programs like ABC's "Nightline" and of correspondents like Jeff Greenfield on CNN. They may not be the stuff of Mr. Matthews's program.
On the set of "Hardball," after expressing his gung-ho enthusiasm for the subject of jury nullification, Mr. Matthews explained that his show needed to keep up a brisk pace.
"People aren't tuning me in for news," he said. "They're tuning me in as an alternative to 'Friends.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Television crews on the Capitol grounds pack up Friday. As the impeachment story winds down, many journalists are concerned about holding on to their audiences. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Chris Matthews, the host of "Hardball" on CNBC. (Associated Press)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION POLITICS (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA; BARRINGER, FELICITY BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



339 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Sales List Is Confined to Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to the regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, which will be held tomorrow, instead of the usual Monday, because of the Presidents' Day holiday today. 
 By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.35 percent and a six-month bill was 4.35 percent.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Borg-Warner Automotive, $400 million of a ten-year bond, Baa2/BBB+/---. Merrill Lynch.
Commercial Metals Co., $100 million in notes due in 2009, Baa1/BBB+/---. Goldman Sachs.
Presidential Life Insurance, $100 million in unsecured senior notes due in 2009. Ba1/BBB/---. BT Alex Brown.
Temple-Inland, $300 million in intermediate maturity bonds. A3/BBB+/---. Warburg Dillon Read & Co.
Georgia Capital Trust IV, 8 million shares of $25 trust preferred securities due in 2009. A2/A-/---. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
(Source: MCM Corporatewatch)
(Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.)
 
TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Chicago Park District, $67.2 million of general obligation bonds, 1999 series' A, B and C. Siebert, Brandford, Shank & Co.
Dallas Independent School District, $165 million of unlimited tax refunding general obligation bonds. Dain Rauscher Inc.
Florida Housing Finance Corp., $190 million of homeowner mortgage revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Indiana Health Facilities Finance Authority, $150 million of hospital revenue bonds for Sister of St. Francis Hospital. Merrill Lynch & Co.
New Hanover County, N.C., $120 million of regional medical center bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $55 million of debt securities for Brooklyn Medical Center. Bear, Stearns & Co.
New York State Research and Development, $155 million of debt securities for LILCO. Lehman Bros.
Ohio Housing Finance Authority, $200 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Lehman Bros..
Palomar, Calif., $61.9 million of debt securities for Palomar Health System. Paine Webber.
Pennsylvania Higher Education Authority, $250 million of debt securities for University of Pennsylvania Medical Center. PNC Capital Markets.
Public Building Commission of Chicago, $119 million of building revenue refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); CMC (NYSE) (70%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (86%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (70%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3317 STEEL PIPE & TUBES (70%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (67%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (86%); COMMERCIAL METALS CO (70%); DILLON READ & CO INC (68%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); FLORIDA HOUSING FINANCE CORP (65%); BORG-WARNER AUTOMOTIVE COOLING SYSTEMS (57%); PRESIDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); TEMPLE-INLAND INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); TAX LAW (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (68%); STUDENT HOUSING (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



340 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

History of Bad Blood Hardens Position of Pilots
Airline pilots, some of America's best-paid and most highly respected workers, have become among the nation's most militant, in part because of the central role that they play in the airline industry and the past scorched-earth labor policies of executives at major airlines.
But just as important are their character traits. Pilots both individually and as a group often exhibit a self-confidence that some industry executives say borders on arrogance. For decades, many of them have felt they have been exploited by the airlines. Page A14. 

American Airlines pilots returned to work in greater numbers. A14.
 
Slate Becomes Free Again
Ten months after deciding to charge readers $19.95 a year, the publisher of Slate, the on-line magazine owned by Microsoft, announced in an E-mail to subscribers that it would now be free. The publisher cited the dynamic growth of advertising on the Web and the slow pace of paid subscriptions for content. C11.
 
The Spread of a Global Contagion
Hundreds of millions of people worldwide are caught in a severe economic crisis, one that has recast lives and will haunt a generation in the East just as the Great Depression shaped a generation in the West. But the crisis also illustrates how the pool of international investments increasingly stitches lives all over the world into a single economic quilt. A1.
 
Nasdaq May Test Trading Halts
Frank G. Zarb, the chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the parent of the Nasdaq stock market, has asked the association's board to consider testing temporary halts in the trading of shares that experience extreme volatility. C2.
 
Microsoft Plays Down Java Report
Microsoft is playing down a report in a trade magazine that it has been briefing software developers on a new programming language that would be similar to Sun Microsystems' Java but free of technological or licensing obligations to Sun. Microsoft said the idea was one of several being discussed. C9.
 
Bill Considered for On-Line Data
The chairman of the House Commerce Committee, Thomas J. Bliley, is considering legislation that would put limits on the types of publicly released Government information that could be posted on the Internet. C5.
 
Feud Over Future of Wireless
In six weeks, the International Telecommunication Union, a United Nations agency, is scheduled to start approving international standards for wireless technologies for the next decade. But that process is being threatened by a general reluctance to compromise on arcane technical standards and in particular by intransigence on the part of two rivals, Ericsson of Sweden and Qualcomm, based in San Diego and led by Irwin Mark Jacobs. C4.
 
Ticketmaster Ends Microsoft Suit
Ticketmaster, a unit of USA Networks, has settled its two-year-old lawsuit against Microsoft. Executives said that Microsoft had agreed to no longer link Sidewalk to pages deep within the Ticketmaster site. The Sidewalk guides will now point visitors who want to buy tickets directly to Ticketmaster's home page. C6.
 
U.S. Markets Closed
All financial markets in the United States, as well as banks and Government offices, are closed today in observance of Presidents' Day. Most markets overseas are open.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 9,274.89 down 29.35
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.42% up 0.093
The Dollar -- 114.21 yen up 0.99

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); ERIC.B (STO) (81%); ERIC.A (STO) (81%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (81%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (84%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (81%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); ON-LINE DATA (52%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (50%); QUALCOMM INC (50%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FRANK G ZARB (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



341 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Global Contagion

 BODY:

TODAY
The new economic landscape and the people it touched.
 
TOMORROW
How the United States, seeking freer capital flow, knocked on poorer nations' doors and got a warm welcome. 

WEDNESDAY
From Asia to Russia to Brazil, markets intertwined in sometimes dangerous ways.
 
THURSDAY
The autopsy of a world crisis, and what it tells some experts about avoiding future ills.
 
For past coverage of this issue, visit The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/international
 This series represents the work of 10 New York Times correspondents reporting from 8 countries over 5 months. Major contributors to this article include Sheryl WuDunn in Thailand and Japan, and David Barboza in Illinois. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (76%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (88%); 

PERSON: DAVID BARBOZA (64%); SHERYL WUDUNN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



342 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: NATO at 50: With Nations at Odds, Is It a Misalliance?

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 14

 BODY:
The NATO alliance, as it approaches its 50th anniversary celebrations in Washington in April, is hardly one big, happy family.
While the latest squabbles have been over how to share the burdens of placing troops in Kosovo, the division is bigger than any single issue, running to the core of the future mission of the alliance. 
 The European allies are complaining about American highhandedness, the elevated place of what the French call American hyperpower and what Europeans see as a growing tendency by Washington to go it alone.
American officials answer that they welcome a more active role for the Europeans, but that the Europeans are incapable of taking the lead, even when the United States offers it to them.
Neither side really seems to believe that the other side means what it says. Some military officials even worry that Congress may eventually get so fed up that it will wash its hands of the whole mess.
The discord is such that France, the loudest voice of European complaint, now seems to spend nearly as much time trying to counter American power as to cooperate with it.
Above all, the Europeans are demanding more say in fashioning a new purpose for the alliance, and American officials are increasingly concerned about French-led efforts to make European defense less dependent on American leadership.
"The United States of America today predominates on the economic level, on the monetary level, on the military level, on the technological level, and in the cultural area in the broad sense of the word," the French Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine, said in a recent speech in Paris. "It is not comparable, in terms of power and influence, to anything known in modern history."
While French leaders since de Gaulle have chafed at American dominance, both President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin's Government have been saying since last summer that multilateral institutions, from the International Monetary Fund to the United Nations, should be strengthened to offset American influence.
"The entire foreign policy of France, among other objectives, is aimed at making the world of tomorrow composed of several poles, not just a single one," Mr. Vedrine said. Mr. Chirac, a few weeks earlier, said avoiding "unilateral temptations" should be the first principle of the multipolar international order.
Mr. Chirac plans a short working visit to the United States starting on Thursday, a week after a visit by the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, who has himself raised similar concerns.
"That there is a danger of unilateralism, not by just anybody but by the United States, is undeniable," Mr. Schroder said at the Munich Conference on Security Policy, a gathering of allied officials and strategists, early this month.
"We want a new Europe for a new NATO," he said, "and we want a new NATO for a new Europe."
The German Foreign Minister, Joschka Fischer, also in Munich, added that the "growing tendency to avoid multilateral solutions" should be seen by Europe as "a challenge to build up its own political authority."
The Germans have also irritated the United States by calling on NATO to say it would not be the first to use nuclear weapons in conflict with any adversary who also has them, a proposal rejected by almost all the other allies but welcomed by Canada.
European policymakers, an American official said recently, apparently did not realize how much some of the sounds coming out of Europe these days, particularly from Paris, have irritated Washington.
The United States still hopes to get the allies, in their visits to Washington, to redefine "collective security" to include threats from missiles and weapons of mass destruction from outside NATO's traditional turf. The French, however, are leading the fight to keep the alliance's new strategy down to earth.
The French Defense Minister, Alain Richard, warned those present at the Munich forum, "Approach with caution any new formula implying that one of the essential tasks of the alliance ought to be to make it the 'policeman of the world,' with the mission of dealing with crises all over the globe."
At the same gathering, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen challenged the European allies to put their money where their mouth was. The United States, he said, had plans for $112 billion in additional military spending over the next six years.
"While it may not be possible for all alliance members to seek and secure dramatically increased defense budgets, we believe that if the alliance is to exist in word and deed, in fighting capacity as well as political appeal, then, at a minimum, defense budgets cannot be reduced further," he said.
Nevertheless, Europe is tired of being an economic power but a political and strategic dwarf, as it has been for most of the last 50 years.
Even Britain, which alone among the European allies has joined the United States in bombing Iraq over Russian objections, went along with France in early December with a call for the European Union to have "the capacity for autonomous action, backed up by credible military forces."
The British Defense Secretary, George Robertson, assured his American colleagues in Munich, "America has nothing to fear from a European defense identity within the Atlantic Alliance."
The French, however, are unhappy with the degree of increased authority that the United States is prepared to give Europe within NATO.
"Since President Kennedy, we've been hearing from people on the other side of the Atlantic about a European pillar for the alliance," Mr. Vedrine said. "In reality, this pillar is never built." The reason is that NATO is built on a "hierarchical foundation with a strict subordination of all participants" to the United States, which he conceded, insures the "credibility of the whole."
Alexander R. Vershbow, the American representative to NATO, reassured the Europeans in Munich that the Clinton Administration would not try, at the Washington NATO summit meeting, to drag the allies into following the United States wherever it wanted to go, from Iraq to North Korea.
"The idea that there is going to be a radical widening of alliance responsibilities is a misreading of the situation," he said. "The new strategic concept is really going to reflect the changes NATO has already undergone in the past 10 years." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); KOSOVO (92%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HISTORY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R JACQUES CHIRAC (75%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



343 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 6224 words

HEADLINE: Who Went Under in the World's Sea of Cash

SERIES: GLOBAL CONTAGION: A Narrative -- First of four articles.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF with EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Mary Jo Paoni stood contentedly in her front yard, as firmly planted in Middle America as any of the cornstalks out back.
"I wouldn't invest in Asia," she said, shaking her head decisively. A 59-year-old secretary with big, sparkling eyes, a plaid shirt and no pretensions, she added, "Investing in Asia frightens me." 
 Her husband, George, a retired meat cutter, was standing beside her as the sun set over Cantrall, Ill., a farm town about 130 miles southwest of Chicago. He was equally adamant. "If I'm going to gamble," he said, "I want to sit down with my friends."
Yet Mrs. Paoni, who has never traveled outside the United States, is in fact invested in Asia and all over the world, although she does not know it. After retiring in April from her job as a secretary with the state government, she will rely on a pension fund that has large investments abroad, giving her indirect ownership of stocks in Indonesia and Russia and Brazil. And the cash she tucked away in an A. G. Edwards money market account was funneled to big banks, which helped build elegant hotels and office towers from Argentina to Vietnam.
Millions of Americans have become, like the Paonis, the unknowing financiers of developing countries, for money swishes around the world today from Cantrall to Russia to Brazil to China, connecting the most unlikely people. Among them are Mrs. Paoni and an Indonesian rickshaw driver named Salamet, a 27-year-old with a drooping mustache, an angry wife and three hungry children.
For Mrs. Paoni and most Americans, these are still good times economically. But elsewhere in the world, hundreds of millions of people like Mr. Salamet are still caught in a severe crisis, one that has recast lives and will haunt a generation in the East just as the Great Depression shaped a generation in the West.
It is still not clear that the financial upheavals, which began in Thailand in July 1997, will ever damage the United States. But the collapse of Brazil's currency in January and the jolt that brought to markets worldwide underscored the continuing risks of "the most serious financial crisis in a half a century," as President Clinton called it in his State of the Union address.
This series of articles is a narrative of the worldwide financial crisis that over the last 20 months has toppled some governments and hobbled others. The crisis has turned Mr. Salamet's life upside down without affecting Mrs. Paoni at all -- but it illustrates how globalization increasingly stitches lives all over the world into a single economic quilt.
In the new economic landscape that has emerged in recent years, the pool of international investments has grown to dwarf the sums that governments can muster, and money zips around the globe far faster than ever before. One result is a world more prosperous but also, perhaps, more wobbly.
"More and more people are asking whether the international financial system as it has operated for most of the 1990's is basically unstable," Ian McFarlane, governor of Australia's central bank, said at a recent conference in Singapore. "And I think by now the majority of observers have come to the conclusion that it is."
 
Salamet, the Rickshaw Man
Mr. Salamet, a burly man with an expression as hard as his biceps, knows nothing of finance, but he understands that his world is falling apart.
As he sat on the porch of his little white house in a remote corner of Indonesia, his thoughts were on his mother. He sat brooding, his stomach tying itself in knots, as his mother 's gasps filtered through the curtain from the next room.
She was lying on the floor, dying of cancer, a huge tumor growing inside her breast. What gnawed at Mr. Salamet each waking moment was not just her gasps, but also his guilt at the knowledge that he could help her but had decided not to.
The doctor had prescribed a painkiller costing $2 a month, a sum that Mr. Salamet earns in two days and could afford. But as his wife, Yuti, reminded him sharply, if he were to buy the painkiller, then he would get further behind in making payments on his rickshaw, meaning that it might be seized and he would lose his livelihood. Or he would have to stop paying school fees, meaning that his son Dwi might be forced to leave the second grade and never get an education.
Although Mr. Salamet has always been poor, the financial crisis has deepened the desperation in his home and countless others. Indeed, if Dwi drops out, he will have plenty of company: The Asian Development Bank estimates that 6.1 million children have left school in Indonesia in recent months because of the economic crisis.
Mr. Salamet contemplated his options as he sat, stony-faced, beneath the mango trees of Mojokerto, a midsized town 400 miles east of the Indonesian capital of Jakarta. He is quiet by nature, and when his wife scolds him for not earning enough money he does not shout at her or hit her, as other men in the neighborhood might.
"Instead, he just sulks," said Mrs. Yuti, a slim woman with high cheekbones, and an embarrassed grin spread across her face and then was mimicked by the baby she was carrying in her arms.
Mr. Salamet, who like his wife and many other Indonesians uses only one name, pondered the bleak options in a flat voice, weighing what flexibility he might have. Would the school really expel Dwi if he got further behind on the school fees? How long could he delay payments before the rickshaw would be seized? How little pain reliever could he get away with giving his mother to ease the worst of her agony?
Tired of this calculus, he shook his head.
"If it were like before and I had money," he growled, "of course I would buy her more painkillers. But now I can't spare the cash for her."
 
From Speculation to Crisis
The initial impulse in America as the crisis erupted was to see the problems as an outgrowth of Asian corruption and cronyism. These probably made the situation worse, but a growing body of evidence suggests that there was nothing uniquely Asian about these countries' problems, and that the catastrophe was worsened by folly and hubris in the United States and Europe.
It was bankers and investors in Moscow and the Thai capital, Bangkok, who speculated wildly on stocks and real estate and thus built up catastrophic bubble economies. But it was American officials who pushed for the financial liberalization that nurtured the speculation (even if developing nations themselves welcomed it). And it was American bankers and money managers who poured billions of dollars into those emerging markets. Then, when the crisis hit, American officials insisted on tough measures like budget cuts and high interest rates, which many economists argue made things worse.
The failure in January of the $41.5 billion bailout of Brazil demonstrates that the West still has not found a reliable formula for dealing with these crises. Experts continue to worry about the danger of a global recession or worse, and about the risk that economic woes may tear apart countries like Indonesia and even China.
Resentment at American policies -- and, perhaps, at America's economic success -- has also led to a sense in many countries that the global economy is at an ideological turning point. In particular, there is a growing backlash against what some nations regard as an American model of laissez-faire capitalism, which rescues Connecticut hedge funds but sacrifices Indonesian children.
Particularly in Tokyo and Paris, where markets have always been regarded as something like ornery oxen -- best when firmly yoked and even then prone to leave messes -- there is talk of sturdier harnesses to guide capital flows, speculators and markets themselves.
What does all this portend? And how can it be that, as David Hale, chief economist of the Zurich Group, describes the financial upheaval of the last year and a half, "a real estate crisis in Bangkok set in motion something that has no parallel in human history"?
 
Early Gains for Salamet
The saga begins in places like Mr. Salamet's riverside neighborhood in Indonesia, then a poor country that had not yet taken on the glitter of an emerging market.
For countless generations, Mr. Salamet's ancestors have been agricultural laborers, owning little or no land, struggling to survive and often not even managing that. When Mr. Salamet was 10, his father fell to his death from a palm tree he was pruning.
Mr. Salamet's mother remarried, and the boy and his new stepfather labored side by side each day, lugging sacks of sand from riverbanks to sell to cement factories. It was backbreaking work, but it was accompanied by breathtaking progress.
As foreign investments poured into Indonesia, the town of Mojokerto thrived in the general prosperity. Mr. Salamet and his stepfather, Pirso, rented rickshaws and began driving them -- a business that boomed as people made a bit more, and as mud paths were paved to make rickshaw travel feasible.
Indonesian families are usually close-knit, and Mr. Pirso sent some of the money to help his own mother, Mariyam, in the town of Kediri several hours' drive to the south.
Mrs. Mariyam, a thin and energetic gray-haired woman, was sitting one day recently in her store-bought wooden chair, beside her nicely finished bureau, on which rested a black Deluxe All Transistor Radio that in English pledged INSTANT SUPERB SOUND. The floor was concrete, the roof was tile, the walls were covered with tattered wallpaper and a curtain covered the bedroom next door. It had become a genuine house, no longer a hut, and outside was a pump and outhouse-cum-bath built five years ago by Mr. Pirso.
"It's a big improvement," she said, "because the river was far away. And it's nice, because I can bathe without everybody seeing. It's supposed to be that if you're bathing in the river, people stay away. But some of the men are naughty."
These gains over the years have been enormous, and so far they have proved reasonably durable. The deprivation and hunger are serious, but as yet there is little evidence that the financial crisis has sent Asia 20 or 30 years backward or that it has destroyed the middle class.
 
Third World Is Renamed
Traditionally, Mrs. Paoni's savings would have stayed far from any place where people have to bathe in rivers. Her money would have remained where she still thinks it is, entirely in nice and safe American communities like hers. Mrs. Paoni and her husband have invested in stocks, but they say they have stuck to blue chips like Coca Cola and Disney.
She wants security above all. Risk is acceptable when confined to her Mary Higgins Clark mysteries and Stephen King horror novels, but she is counting on safe investments and her pension income when she and her husband pull up stakes this year and move, perhaps to Florida.
Income in retirement will come from the Illinois state pension fund, which like most pension funds has the same deeply conservative instincts as Mrs. Paoni.
But even that is slowly changing, as fund managers seek higher returns. In 1980 fewer than 1 percent of pension fund assets in the United States were invested abroad, but by 1997 that figure had risen to 17 percent. And so, as part of the process bandied about as "globalization," Mrs. Paoni has tiny financial stakes in dozens of countries around the world.
One reason Americans like her and her pension fund managers used to be unwilling to invest in places like Indonesia was the description "third world markets," which had an ominous ring. In the mid-1980's, the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank was trying to drum up support for a third world investment fund, when one listener complained about the terminology.
"No one wants to put money into the third world investment fund," the man protested. "You'd better come up with something better."
So in just a few days officials dreamed up an alternative -- "emerging markets" -- and it proved a winner. The first emerging-markets fund came out in 1986, and the craze was born.
Emerging markets quickly produced emerging gurus. One of the most prominent is J. Mark Mobius, 62, who is instantly recognizable at investment conferences with his shaven head and stern, lean look.
Templeton Funds recruited Mr. Mobius in 1987 to figure out the small markets of the world, and under him the Templeton Emerging Markets Fund was a success almost immediately. In 1988 the fund gained 37 percent, and then it soared 98 percent in 1989. After a small dip in 1990, it rocketed 112 percent in 1991 and after another dip soared 100 percent in 1993.
"The 1987 crash was very bad for emerging markets," Mr. Mobius said. "But in 1988-'89 the recovery came, and the ball started rolling as people started waking up to the tremendous returns that were possible."
The bullishness was, in part, self-fulfilling. The stock markets in small countries were tiny, and modest investments by Westerners tended to bid up prices, thus attracting more investors.
A result was that hubris increased more rapidly than the caliber of most investment research. Bright young men and women who could barely read a spreadsheet moved to Asia and ended up getting hired as research analysts by investment banks. They sometimes made hundreds of thousands of dollars a year picking stocks in countries whose languages they could barely speak.
 
The Capital Starts to Flow
Even more than pension funds and mutual funds and other stock purchasers, banks were piling into emerging markets -- particularly banks from Europe and Japan. Investors bought $50 billion worth of stocks and bonds in emerging markets in 1996, but that year international banks poured $76 billion into those countries.
From Mrs. Paoni's money market account at A. G. Edwards, the American brokerage company, cash then flows to major American banks, like J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan. There is no risk to Mrs. Paoni, but from the big banks some portion of her savings journeys abroad.
All this capital made a spectacular difference to emerging-market countries.
"When history books are written 200 years from now about the last two decades of the 20th century," Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said recently, "I am convinced that the end of the cold war will be the second story. The first story will be about the appearance of emerging markets -- about the fact that developing countries where more than three billion people live have moved toward the market and seen rapid growth in incomes."
Countries like Chile and Egypt and Russia and Vietnam became enmeshed in the international economy. In Moscow, tycoons dripping with gold and diamonds began to drop hundreds of dollars at trendy new restaurants, and in the early 1990's more Mercedes 600 SEL sedans were selling in Moscow, at $130,000 apiece, than in New York City. In the Russian city of Volgograd, one wealthy citizen plunked down $300,000 to buy two stretch limousines.
In Brazil's biggest city, Sao Paulo, homeless children slept under billboard advertisements for mutual funds, and farther south, in Argentina, cash machines spat out American dollars and televisions offered 50 cable channels.
And in the ancient Chinese lakeside city of Hangzhou, two "dakuan," or fat cats, got into a contest to see who was wealthier. They began burning real currency to show off, and in a blink they had each burned $400.
In one sense, today's crisis fits neatly into a long history of financial manias and panics. Emerging markets have been risky ever since the 1320's, when England, then a developing country, defaulted on loans to banks in the Italian city-state of Genoa. In the 19th century, states like Mississippi defaulted on debts just as Russia did last year.
Yet for all the parallels with the past, new elements are at work to make the global economy very different from the one of a century ago, or even a decade ago. Most fundamentally, finance and technology have exploded in importance and now dominate the economic horizon.
In a typical day, the total amount of money changing hands in the world's foreign exchange markets alone is $1.5 trillion -- an eightfold increase since 1986 and an almost incomprehensible sum, equivalent to total world trade for four months.
"It's no longer the real economy driving the financial markets," said Marc Faber, a prominent fund manager in Hong Kong, "but the financial markets driving the real economy."
Already, a 15 percent increase in American stock prices bolsters American wealth by $1.7 trillion, which is considerably more than the value of all the manufacturing that takes place in a year in the entire United States. This capacity for wealth creation has delighted Americans, but there is also a converse: a 15 percent drop in the market erases wealth equivalent to the entire annual output of all American factories.
Economists are still charting this new global economic landscape, but they point out some of its features:
*The amount of investment capital has exploded. By 1995, mutual funds, pension funds and other institutional investors controlled $20 trillion, 10 times the figure of 1980. The global economy is no longer dominated by trade in cars and steel and wheat, but rather by trade in stocks and bonds and currencies.
*Far more wealth than ever before is stateless, circulating wherever in the world the owner can find the highest return. Thus spending by investors in industrialized countries on overseas stocks increased 197-fold between 1970 and 1997, and each nation's capital market is beginning to merge into a global capital market.
*New technologies have vastly reduced the importance of physical distance. In 1930 a three-minute telephone call from New York to London cost $245. Now it runs 36 cents. In cyberspace, every market is next door.
*Investments are increasingly leveraged, using borrowed money so that a $1 million bet becomes a $5 million bet, or they are channeled through complex financial instruments known as derivatives to multiply the potential profits. Derivatives have grown exponentially, with those traded in 1997 valued at $360 trillion, a figure equivalent to a dozen times the size of the entire global economy, and they bring important benefits but also new risks of turbulence.
*Public funds are increasingly used to bail out losers, like banks. The latest crisis has forced an international rescue on a scale like nothing before, with roughly $175 billion in public money raised so far for the various international bailouts. At least some of that public money has gone to rescue bankers and politicians from their own mistakes.
For all the dazzling size and complexity of the global financial markets, it is not clear that the markets are operating with an intelligence that matches their scale. There may be computer equipment analyzing blips in exchange rates, but investors are fundamentally prey to emotions and panics and tend to overshoot.
Paul Samuelson, the Nobel laureate in economics, argues that sophisticated analysis has done a marvelous job in achieving "microefficiency" in financial markets. The result is that share prices adjust almost perfectly to specific news like currency movements or changes in dividends.
"But I also believe the evidence is overwhelming that there is no macro-efficiency of speculative markets," Professor Samuelson added. "They experience self-fulfilling swings, and they can swing far above and below any kind of sensible fundamental value. There does not exist an efficiency which is self-correcting, except in the case that every bubble will someday burst."
How do these speculative swings come about?
Part of the answer is changes in market sentiment because of pronouncements by people like Barton M. Biggs. One of the gray-haired elders of Wall Street, Mr. Biggs, 65, the chief global investment strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, commands the attention of pension fund managers in Illinois and around the world. In an industry that has drifted toward computer models and number crunchers, Mr. Biggs is a generalist who is famous for his brilliantly written investment reports, which are often funny and always influential.
In 1993, in typical seat-of-the-pants style, he made a weeklong trip to China and came out starry-eyed. He urged investors to increase their holdings of Hong Kong stocks sixfold, to 7 percent of a global stock portfolio.
"We were all stunned by the enormous size of China," he declared. "Sometimes you have to spend time in a country to get really focused on the investment case. After eight days in China, I'm tuned in, overfed and maximum bullish."
Hong Kong stocks soared at those words, and gained 28 percent over the next seven weeks. Then, in August 1994, Mr. Biggs declared that the smaller Asian markets -- Thailand, Indonesia and Hong Kong -- would be "the best place in the world to be for the next five years."
Mr. Biggs's comments were representative of Wall Street's euphoria about Asia. When executives of an obscure Indonesian polyester company called Polysindo visited New York in 1996 to discuss issuing bonds, they were squired around and accorded meetings with top executives at Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. No comparable Chicago company could ever have got such a welcome.
American investment banks were so eager to arrange stock offerings for the likes of Polysindo that they often charged Asian companies about 3 percent of the value of the deal, compared with 6 percent that they would charge companies in the United States. This reflected the ease with which some foreign companies could raise money, and the head of an American corporation plaintively queried a New York investment bank, "Why do I have to pay 6 percent when you charge an Indonesian company only 3 percent?"
At Templeton, Mr. Mobius was more careful in his pronouncements than many other analysts, emphasizing that emerging markets can go down as well as up. But his moderation was taken as simply a token of his modesty, and he was rapidly becoming a celebrity. An investment of $10,000 in the fund at the beginning of 1988 would have turned into $100,000 by the end of 1993, and Templeton began to use his picture in its advertisements. His shaven head smiled out at investors, and he came to symbolize the truly global fund manager.
Mr. Mobius speaks at least a bit of six foreign languages -- Chinese, Korean, Japanese, German, Spanish and Thai -- and he comes across as a citizen of the world. In 1992 he dropped his American nationality for German citizenship, for tax reasons, and he spends most of his time in hotels.
Nominally a resident of Singapore, with a second home in the Philippines, he travels 250 days a year, roaming Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. In a typical week he might visit 4 cities and 20 companies.
"My job is to go out and find bargains," he said at an investment conference in Chicago. "You can't find bargains sitting at a desk reading annual reports."
On March 8, 1996, the first shot was fired at the emerging markets. A New York hedge fund sold $400 million worth of the Thai currency, the baht, betting that it would fall.
Hedge funds, famous for secrecy, are large pools of speculative funds that make investments for banks, pension funds or other large investors. The first hedge fund was founded in 1949, but they came into their own only in the 1990's, with their assets soaring twelvefold between 1990 and 1997. Now there are 3,500 hedge funds, managing $200 billion. And they are able to leverage that, through borrowing, into a much greater sum.
The baht was pegged to the dollar so that they rose and fell together, and the peg was frequently praised as a source of stability for the Thai economy. But the hedge fund managers were shrewd enough to see that Thailand's economy was faltering, its exports slowing, its property sector sagging and its banks sinking under bad loans.
The baht should have weakened along with Thailand's economy, but instead the peg kept it as strong as the dollar. The hedge fund managers sensed that the baht was too strong considering Thailand's weaknesses, and they knew that if Thailand's slowing economy forced the Government to float the currency they could make a quick killing.
In this case, though, that first hedge fund's bet against the baht fizzled, and a few days later the fund gave up.
Most analysts continued to rave about Asia. At Morgan Stanley, Mr. Biggs had been wrong when he predicted that stock markets in Thailand would soar in 1996 (instead, Thai stocks fell 36 percent), and so in January 1997 he went on what he called a fact-finding mission so as "to clarify my thinking on the Thai stock market."
The facts that Mr. Biggs found were, on the whole, positive ones. He said at a Morgan Stanley investment seminar in Tokyo on Jan. 14, 1997, as recorded by Bloomberg News Service: "We tend to think there are a lot of opportunities in Asian emerging markets," and he specifically referred to Thailand, South Korea, India and Singapore.
"When you have a market that is down 50 percent," Mr. Biggs told the investors, "you have to be looking for values. We can find values for Thailand."
Others could not. From that date through the end of 1997, Thai stock prices fell 75.3 percent in dollar terms.
 
Tracking Capital Flight
In judging countries like Thailand, bankers and investors rely partly on expert assessments from credit rating institutions like Standard & Poors and Moody's Investors Services. So what was S & P saying?
"Standard & Poors does not expect that the likely scale of financial-sector losses will seriously impair the kingdom's credit standing," S & P said about Thailand on March 18, 1997. It added that any crisis in Thailand was "most unlikely" to approach the levels of the problems in Mexico in 1995 or Indonesia or Finland in the early 1990's.
If S & P's prediction was off base, that might not have been so unusual. Scholarly analyses find that the rating agencies usually offer warnings only after it is too late. For example, a study by two American economists, Carmen M. Reinhart and Morris Goldstein, looked at 72 financial crises around the world since 1979 and concluded that rating agencies tended to react after crises instead of anticipating them.
S & P sees things differently. John Chambers, one of its managing directors, said that his company's analysis had been thorough and had identified potential risks.
For all the scorn heaped on Asians for their cronyism and other foolishness, local people in Thailand, Malaysia, Russia and South Korea were showing the most savvy. They were selling -- usually to the kind of enthusiastic, well-trained foreigners who were making many times their salaries.
Capital flight is hard to track precisely, but it is the main reason for the "errors and omissions" line in the International Monetary Fund data. These data show that there was no significant capital flight from emerging markets between 1990 and 1995.
Capital flight soared to $16 billion in 1996, a full year before the crisis began, and reached $45 billion in 1997. This money then ended up in major banks based in Switzerland, London and New York.
 
Drenched in a 'Blood Baht'
Japan, the dominant economy in Asia and the one that might have been the locomotive to pull countries like Thailand out of their difficulties, instead administered the coup de grace. On April 1, 1997, against the strenuous protests of Mr. Summers, who flew to Tokyo to deliver a testy complaint from Washington, Japan raised its sales tax to 5 percent from 3 percent.
Mr. Summers had insisted that the tax increase would harm Japan's incipient economic recovery by dampening consumer spending, but Japanese officials scoffed at that argument. Eisuke Sakakibara, Japan's Deputy Minister of Finance for International Affairs, was particularly emphatic that Japan was doing just fine. He told reporters that those who denied Japan's being on a recovery course were irrational.
"I am an optimist on the Japanese economy," he said in May 1997, adding a month later, "Real growth in Japan's gross domestic product will exceed the Government's projection."
But it was Mr. Summers who was proved right. In the second quarter of 1997, Japanese economic output was actually plunging at an annual rate of 11 percent. Japan became mired in its worst recession in six decades, and instead of dealing decisively with its troubles it steadily sank deeper. Japan's imports from Asian countries like Thailand slumped.
With Thai exporters now struggling, along with property developers and hotel companies, the entire country became edgy. The overvalued currency resulted in alarming trade deficits, and speculation grew that the peg would be broken and the baht devalued.
Thailand's own investors and companies began buying dollars, attracting the attention of foreign speculators. In May, Tiger Management, based in New York and one of the biggest hedge funds of all, began to bet heavily against the baht, and other banks and hedge funds piled on as well.
It looked as if the speculators would win. Normally baht-dollar trades totaled $200 million a day, but the amounts now soared. On May 13, 1997, the Thai central bank sold $6.3 billion to buy baht that everyone else was selling. A central banker wrote that day in a sober memo to his bosses, "The market was not afraid."
The next day, officials met in the central bank to try to figure out what to do. There was fury at hedge funds, but most of all there was utter desperation.
"Everyone panicked, and some even cried," Rerngchai Marakanond, the head of the central bank, recalled later before a Government commission.
If Thailand had decided on that day to give up and devalue the baht, while it still had reserves left, the world might have been able to avoid the worst of the financial crisis. Thailand would have faced a severe domestic banking crisis and property glut, and other countries would also have faced slumps. But the country would have saved its reserves and perhaps avoided a severe panic, and the fury of the crisis and the impact on nations as far away as Brazil and Russia might have been minimized.
The meeting went the other way, with the central bank now determined to risk everything in a battle against speculators. That day the central bank intervened again, selling more than $10 billion. It was one of the biggest interventions any central bank had ever made, but it had little impact.
The Thai central bankers had one more trick up their sleeves. On May 15, 1997, they sold dollars and simultaneously ordered banks not to lend to foreign speculators. The speculators were unable to unwind their bets as their losses mounted, and they screamed into their phones, threw chairs across the room and watched their computer screens in horror. In one day, the hedge funds lost around $450 million, according to Callum Henderson, a currency analyst who wrote a book about the crisis. That day became known among traders as the "blood baht."
The Thai Prime Minister telephoned the central bank to congratulate officials and promise a celebration party, but it was a Pyrrhic victory. The central bank had supported the baht by selling dollars in forward contracts, committing itself to using its dollars to buy baht in the future. In practical terms, this meant that its official reserves of $30 billion were mostly already pledged and no longer usable to defend the baht. And speculators continued the attack, carefully but constantly keeping up the pressure.
Who were these speculators? They were mostly American, and the hedge funds were prominent among them. But they also included major American banks, trading for themselves to make a profit. Mrs. Paoni could not have known it, but a tiny fraction of her savings might have been thrown, by a circuitous route, into the attack on the baht.
Some of the funds in Mrs. Paoni's money market account, for example, went to J. P. Morgan, and J. P. Morgan said in a court document that it had traded $1 billion worth of baht in the fall of 1996. The bank did not disclose its trades in the spring of 1997, and bank officials refused to comment.
Thai officials were furious that American hedge funds and banks were investing billions of dollars in a bid to destabilize their country, and they worried about the consequences of such speculative battles on all of Asia. In May 1997 Mr. Rerngchai, the central bank chief, sent a secret letter of complaint to Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, urging him to rein in American hedge funds and other financial institutions.
Mr. Rerngchai warned that the attack on Thailand "could have far-reaching implications on the economy both of Thailand and the Asian region" and "threatens to jeopardize the stability of international financial markets."
A similar letter was sent to Hans Tietmeyer, the president of the central bank in Germany, noting that one German bank had joined in the attack on the baht. Mr. Tietmeyer quickly responded himself, a Thai official recalled, with a question of his own: which of our banks? That warmed hearts at the Thai central bank, but the response from Washington annoyed them.
The correspondence, made available by a Thai central bank official and confirmed by another Government official, shows that the Fed's response came not from Mr. Greenspan but an from aide, Edwin M. Truman. He blandly acknowledged that "large financial firms" can disrupt markets of countries like Thailand but added that these matters were best left to the markets.
Mr. Greenspan declined to comment. "All communications with other central banks are private," said Lynn S. Fox, spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve in Washington.
There was another opportunity for the leading countries to confront the problems before the crisis erupted. In late June, the seven leading industrialized nations held their summit meeting in Denver, and aides say that in the confidential discussion among leaders, the Japanese Prime Minister at the time, Ryutaro Hashimoto, called for the industrial countries to discuss the financial instability in Thailand.
Japanese officials were expectant, waiting for President Clinton and other leaders to take up the matter. But according to one American official who was there, Mr. Hashimoto was typically understated, tentative and vague (as is considered polite in Japan), and did not call for any specific action.
So President Clinton and the other world leaders paid no attention.
 
The View From Ground Zero
Thanong Bidaya, one of Thailand's most respected bankers, is an imposing man with a round face, a gentle manner and a passion for collecting antique watches. A fluent speaker of both English and Japanese, he flew to Hong Kong for a weekend in June 1997 with his wife, planning to scour the shops for old watches. He settled into a hotel in the Tsim Sha Tsui district, and the phone rang. It was the Thai Prime Minister, asking him to take over as Finance Minister.
"If you've found no one, I'll do it for you," Mr. Thanong agreed.
Later, he recalled thinking, "The situation can't be that serious." So the next day Mr. Thanong flew back to Bangkok. And then, on the evening of June 27, 1997, he climbed into a navy blue Mercedes-Benz limousine and zigzagged through throngs of traffic to the central bank headquarters. He wanted to meet Mr. Rerngchai, an old friend from the time they had both studied in Japan.
As Mr. Thanong's car approached the stately gates to the majestic eight-story central bank building, a guard waved it through. It was about 7 P.M. when they entered a conference room, and Mr. Rerngchai gave his friend the shock of his life.
Thailand was out of cash, Mr. Rerngchai explained. After subtracting the dollars that had been committed in forward transactions, Thailand had just $2.8 billion in usable foreign exchange reserves.
Even though he was Finance Minister and one of his country's most experienced bankers, Mr. Thanong was stunned. Mr. Rerngchai had brought reams of studies examining the options, but he and Mr. Thanong both knew that it was all over.
The foreign banks and hedge funds had won, and Thailand had lost. The two men agreed that since Thailand had run out of money, it would have to drop the peg with the dollar and let the baht float at whatever rate the market set. It was a foreshadowing of what would happen in Brazil 18 months later.
"I said I didn't see any choice in dealing with the situation," Mr. Thanong recalled.
A few days later, on July 1, the Thai Prime Minister, Chavalit Yongchaiyudh, declared that the baht would never be devalued. But that night, if anybody had noticed, the lights burned brightly at the central bank. Officials stayed up all night, first calling major central banks abroad. Then, at 4:30 A.M., central bankers called the homes of the heads of all Thai banks and major foreign banks in Bangkok, summoning them to an emergency meeting that would begin at 6 A.M.
When the bleary-eyed bank executives had taken their seats, an official grimly announced that Thailand could no longer stand behind the baht. Instead of being pegged to the dollar, it would float freely.
The global crisis had just detonated.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: MARY JO and GEORGE PAONI: An Illinois couple organizing their retirement, the Paonis are conservative about investing. But that has not kept Mrs. Paoni's pension fund or brokerage from making her and her husband nominal investors in places like Indonesia and Brazil. Such risks were much rarer before third world nations became "emerging market countries." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); SALAMET: A rickshaw driver in a town east of Jakarta, Mr. Salamet has a hard life made more so by the Asian crisis. Too many competitors -- a byproduct of Western investment -- meant a drop in fares and trouble with rickshaw and other expenses. This jeopardized his son's schooling and left him unable to supply his mother with painkillers as she died of cancer. (Stuart Isett/Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. A10); Thais who got poor quick had their luxury cars auctioned off in Bangkok last year. Two auctioneers disposed of 7,000 cars in a day. (Paula Bronstein/Gamma Liaison); J. MARK MOBIUS: Emerging markets created their own gurus, and Mr. Mobius's early bullishness drew investors to Asia. (John Maier Jr./The Image Works, for The New York Times)(pg. A11); ABN Amro Bank customers in Rio waiting to renegotiate their dollar-based car loans early this month as a result of Brazil's devaluation. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Graph: "Money on the Move: How the World Financial Landscape Has Changed"
The graphs shows the 1999 way money zips around the world, how deals are more reliant on borrowed money, more money flows to emerging markets, more is invested abroad, and how technology has slashed the price of doing business.
(Source: ATT: Bank for International Settlement; Financial Regulation in the Global Economy; International Monetary Fund; Gary Hufbauer, Institute for International Economics, Morningstar Inc.)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (95%); ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (55%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; BRAZIL; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (95%); ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FORECASTS; BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); OCEANS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TRENDS (74%); CURRENCIES (72%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; WYATT, EDWARD BILL CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



344 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Dictator Speaks

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In blurbing the memoirs of the dictator of Singapore, President George Bush gushed: "Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew is one of the brightest, ablest men I have ever met." Baroness Thatcher: "He was never wrong." Henry Kissinger: "One of the seminal figures of Asia."
Despite this adulation, a vituperative right-wing calumniator regularly denounces Lee for using lapdog judges to silence internal opposition and intimidate journalists. 
 "'You call me a dictator," Senior Minister Lee said when we recently met at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. "You are entitled to call me whatever you like, but that doesn't make me one . . . do I need to be a dictator when I can win, hands down?"
He brought up the example of Chee Soon Juan, 36, a neuropsychologist who dared to run for Parliament. After being fired from his job and losing his home, Dr. Chee was arrested for breaching the Public Entertainment Act by trying to make a speech.
"There was this little fuss about a dissident," said the dictator, "who said, 'I'm going to speak at Raffles Place,' which is our business center, without a permit. So why didn't we let him speak?
"I said the law has been on the statutes for the last 50 years. If everybody just turns up at a busy junction at lunchtime and makes a speech and runs around . . . there would be pandemonium. We are not that kind of society."
Joseph Nye, head of Harvard's Kennedy School, suggested that Singapore set aside a place like London's old Hyde Park Corner, where people gathered to hear speakers sound off freely. Lee promises: "We'll probably do it." That'll be the day.
The dissident Chee was fined the equivalent of $800, refused to pay, spent a week in jail and faces further harassment. I asked: If not worried about opposition, why fine him at all?
"Because the laws are there, and he has complied with those laws for the last eight years. Since 1992 he has been campaigning. And now, because he has lost, and lost badly in an open, free election, one to one against one of our candidates, he's had exposure on television, which was disastrous for him because he was caught out lying and fibbing and fabricating evidence on a health care paper. . . . So he gets a big splash in the Western press, because they want to beat me up. It's all right; it doesn't bother me."
When dissidents say "liar," they are driven into exile; obviously a free press bothers him plenty. "We do not own the Singapore press, as they do in Malaysia. Nobody is allowed to own more than 3 percent of the shares. The management of the press is in the hands of our four big banks."
"And that makes all of them terrified of crossing you."
"No. That makes them having a vested interest in stability and growth, and they support parties that will bring about stability and growth."
Result: 80 of the 83 seats in Parliament are locked up by Lee's party. Why does he fear political contests?
"There are seven or eight parties that contested the last elections. They lost because they cannot produce an alternative more attractive to the electorate than us. Look: Nobody in his right mind believes that we rigged elections."
As one of the legion not in his right mind, I asked: How about free labor unions?
"Nothing to stop them from forming independent labor unions. But they can't succeed, because the unions who are with us produce more results."
About nepotism: "Would your son be Deputy Prime Minister if he were not your son?" He snaps: "If he were not my son, he would be the Prime Minister. He came up faster than any of the others, but I told him it would do him no good." The scion must await his time.
The determinedly irreplaceable Lee Kuan Yew is the world's most intelligent, and to some most likable, despot. In our hour's talk, he offered insights about China to be reported in a future column, unless my publisher gets sued, bankrupted, jailed and flayed with a cane in the meantime.
"You are not a silly man and I don't give you silly answers," the Senior Minister said in parting. I'll put all those answers on the Internet when I figure out how. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (77%); 

CITY: SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: HYDE PARK MARKETS (53%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (77%); SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); ARRESTS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); NEUROSCIENCE (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; LEE KUAN YEW GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



345 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: With Brass-Knuckled Tales, 50's Street Gang Looks Back

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN 

 BODY:
Them were the days.
A street tough named McGiff got himself skewered in Prospect Park with an Army surplus bayonet.
Anthony Vivelo, himself a tough and later a New York City police sergeant and now a dispatcher for a car service on Staten Island, saw it happen. 
 "I watched the blade go in and I watched the blade come out. McGiff lived," marveled Mr. Vivelo, although he said the man later died of heroin addiction.
Kindled by photographs taken 40 years ago, such brass-knuckled memories overwhelmed a gathering this weekend of the remnants of a Brooklyn street gang. They assembled at an Upper East Side gallery to commemorate black-and-white images of themselves frozen in late-1950's cool.
Men pushing 60, with wives and grown children listening in wide-eyed amazement, rhapsodized about fistfights that occurred during the Eisenhower Administration.
Patrick Fenton, then a gangly Irish kid with a pompadour and now a part-time writer and full-time court clerk at the State Supreme Court in Queens, remembered a drunken fight not so much for the punches as for its ending. "We both threw up," Mr. Fenton said.
Robert (Bengie) Powers, a former drug dealer and a former heroin addict and now an addiction counselor, said he never once won a fight unless three or four of "you guys held somebody down and I could beat them."
The reunion took place, around a table with pizzas and sodas, in a first-floor conference room at the International Center of Photography on Fifth Avenue at 94th Street. On the floor above, a sizable Saturday crowd of paying customers inspected 50 photographs of the gang as they were in the summer of 1959, skinny and brooding, showing off tattoos and smooching with girls under the Boardwalk at Coney Island.
The gathering was the work of Mr. Powers, who tracked down eight other gang members and their families, and of Bruce Davidson, the New York photographer who, when he was 25, spent several nerve-jangling months hanging out in Brooklyn, carefully making pictures.
"I was very scared," said Mr. Davidson, who is known for his sympathetic photographs of people living on the margins. "They were very unpredictable. I was never sure if their anger was going to focus on me."
Violent youth gangs were a much-publicized problem in New York City at the end of the 1950's. They inspired the musical "West Side Story." A Youth Board was created by the city to try to stop their fights. The New York Times wrote a seven-part, front-page series in 1958 examining the antisocial behavior of adolescents in the "shook-up" generation. The series had a glossary that defined "rumble" as a gang fight.
From the calming distance of four decades, there is a temptation to see in Mr. Davidson's photographs a certain sweetness, even hope. These were teen-agers who hung out in candy stores, after all, not crack houses. They fretted about dance contests, not drive-by shootings. They made the sign of the cross when walking by churches; they did not murder rivals with 9-millimeter semiautomatic handguns.
Many of teen-agers in the photographs, however, inhabited a working-class Brooklyn where sweetness and hope were in desperately short supply. If they had had guns, several former gang members said, they probably would have used them.
Mr. Powers, whose printed recollections narrate the photo exhibit, is remembered by Mr. Davidson as endlessly angry, "like some kind of wired marmot." Like the other members of the gang that called themselves the Jokers and the Eighth Avenue Boys, Mr. Powers grew up in a mostly Irish neighborhood near Prospect Park, a place, he said, where "a kid wished he was dead a million times."
For gang members, it was a neighborhood where Catholic families were large, but cold. Fathers drank boilermakers for breakfast before heading off to gray factories that lined the Brooklyn waterfront. Factories kept closing in those years, tormenting unskilled men who had limited options and unlimited obligations. As gang members remember it, fathers self-medicated in street-corner bars before heading home, sometimes to take out their troubles on wives and children.
Mothers, too, were exhausted and often embittered from the ordeal of 6 or 8 or 10 pregnancies, from the importuning of children and from the periodic uselessness of husbands. Mr. Powers says that both his parents, who lived in a five-room apartment with their eight children, were alcoholics and, for him, unreachable. "It's not that they treated me bad," Mr. Powers said. "They didn't treat me."
Although the gang members did not have automatic weapons, they were -- by their own admission -- itching to fight.
"Did we fight with chains and pipes and knives? Yeah," said Mr. Powers, a small man with pale watery blue eyes, a gray pony tail and two studs in his left ear. "Did people get stabbed? Yeah, people got stabbed. And people got their heads cracked open with bats."
Mr. Powers and others at the reunion asserted that they had more guts than gang members today who shoot at rivals from moving cars.
"Drive-by shootings?" Mr. Powers said. "What does that take? It takes a nut job, as far as I am concerned. How about standing in front of somebody and punching it out?"
The saddest story behind Mr. Davidson's photographs is that of Howard (Junior) Rice and Cathy O'Neal, the gang couple whose cool and beauty were without compare. No one had the heart to tell their story on Saturday.
Junior was the Romeo of the street gang. He wore sunglasses everywhere and carried a copy of Allen Ginsberg's "Howl" in his back pocket. He had the pick of girls on Eighth Avenue and his pick was Cathy, a 13-year-old blond he thought looked like Brigitte Bardot.
Cathy, in the most famous of Mr. Davidson's gang photographs, fusses with her long golden hair in the mirror of a Coney Island cigarette machine. She loved Junior and he loved her. Mr. Davidson photographed them embracing while lying on the sand underneath the Boardwalk. She became pregnant with his child before she was 15.
Mr. Rice, who is now 57 but whose Brooklyn friends still call him Junior, remembers that everything went wrong after Cathy became pregnant. "We went to a judge and got permission to get married, which my parents weren't happy about," Mr. Rice said in an earlier interview. "Our daughter passed away after 15 months, and I went into a self-destructive mode and so did she. We got divorced. There was a lot of shame."
Mr. Rice said he took street fighting to "the extreme," using bats, chains and knives. "I used to go out there and fight and I didn't know what I was fighting about," Mr. Rice said. He said he became a drug dealer, selling hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of heroin, and the "profits went up my arm." He had several failed marriages and is now divorced and unemployed.
Ms. O'Neal committed suicide years later with a shotgun.
There are several others from the gang who are dead, from cirrhosis, from drugs, from bullets fired outside a bar.
Yet around the table at the gallery on Saturday, it was noisily apparent that gang life could give way to better things. There were two retired police officers, an electrician, a retired transit worker, a hospital administrator, a singer. There were handsome grown-up children who came of age in New Jersey or on Long Island and who know nothing of gangs, except from the papers and dad's stories over dinner.
The one gang member at the reunion who has inhabited both hopelessness and a measure of middle-class contentment is Mr. Powers. For most of 18 years, he said, he was drunk, addicted to heroin and selling drugs. He said he stabbed two people, squandered a marriage and needed his sisters to take care of his children while he served time in jail.
For the last 15 years, Mr. Powers, 56, said he has been clean and sober. He works in midtown as an addiction counselor. On weekends, he baby-sits his grandchildren.
"At the end, I was living in the streets," Mr. Powers said. "I was in Prospect Park, sleeping on the same benches where I drank when I was 15. I had pancreatitis and the shakes. There were no more drugs, just Wild Irish Rose. They wheeled me into detox at Kings County Hospital."
A year later, sober, Mr. Powers decided to learn to read. A dyslectic who was kicked out of Catholic and public schools for fighting, he had never learned how to read. In his 40's, he studied in computerized literacy classes on Staten Island, sitting on small chairs with 6-year-old children who, he said, were smarter than him.
It took five years, but he learned. He has a driver's license and a car. He now lives in Brighton Beach in an apartment building where most residents speak only Russian. He jogs every morning on the Coney Island boardwalk, past the places where he used to be cool.
Mr. Powers is leaving New York soon for a vacation in Florida. It is the kind of trip that for all his ganged-up, drugged-out Brooklyn life would have been impossible. He said he has enough money to enjoy himself, and he does not have to answer to a methadone program, a counselor or a judge. He will, though, call home and check on the grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: For an exhibition of noted 40-year-old photographs, aging former members of a Brooklyn gang reunited. Things have changed. (Photographs by Bruce Davidson/Magnum)(pg. A1); Howard (Junior) Rice was the Romeo of the street gang. He stood in front of a picture of himself in 1959, at left in the framed picture. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); In 1959, Bruce Davidson, left, photographed a street gang in which Robert (Bengie) Powers, right and in framed picture, was a member. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); The picture of Cathy O'Neal in a Coney Island bathhouse is the most famous of those taken of a Brooklyn gang in 1959. Years later, she committed suicide. Arthur Giammarino, left, is now a retired police detective. (Bruce Davidson/Magnum)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (58%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (NYC) INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; GANGS SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); GANGS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); HEROIN (76%); WRITERS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; DAVIDSON, BRUCE ROBERT (BENGIE) POWERS (91%); BRUCE DAVIDSON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



346 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Scandals Affirm New York As Union Corruption Capital

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The scandal that swept the president of New York City's janitors' local from his union penthouse earlier this month was the latest in a series of stinging labor setbacks, stemming from an unusual combination of forces, that have made the city the national capital of union excess and corruption.
Other cities are well known for union corruption, of course, among them Chicago, Boston, Providence, R.I., and several New Jersey locales. But labor investigators and experts say no other city today comes close to New York in the number of officials under investigation or the dozens of union locals under trusteeship. 
 "I don't think there's any question that New York, because of some historical reasons and some unfortunate traditions, has the unfortunate rank as the No. 1 labor racketeering city in the nation," said Michael Cherkasky, a former prosecutor who is chief operating officer of Kroll Associates, the investigative firm.
Labor corruption is so widespread in New York that union locals representing 300,000 workers -- nearly one-fourth of the city's unionized work force -- have been in trusteeship at some point over the last two years.
New York's union scandals stem from many factors, among them more aggressive policing by parent unions, a continuation of prosecutors' longstanding cleanup efforts, and a push by union dissidents to expose their leaders' misdeeds.
The leader of the janitors' union, Gus Bevona, for example, was pushed out because his parent union, the Service Employees International Union, was angry about his $450,000 salary and extravagant penthouse. Stanley Hill, the longtime executive director of District Council 37, which represents 120,000 city workers, was forced out in December by his parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, because dissidents had discovered evidence of what they said was extensive corruption and the Manhattan District Attorney's office was expanding its investigation into suspected kickbacks, embezzlement and vote fraud.
In the last two years, the former president of the carpenters' union in New York City was convicted of stealing more than $50,000, while numerous teamsters officials have been expelled for ties to organized crime. The former president of the transit police union was convicted in June of taking kickbacks, and two members of the Lucchese crime family have pleaded guilty to the 1990 murder of a mob rival who ran a painters' union local. And two weeks ago, Federal prosecutors obtained a three-year extension of their four-year-old trusteeship of the 13,000-member Mason Tenders District Council, which represents construction workers. Union officials, prosecutors said, wasted or stole more than $50 million from the union's benefit fund.
Government officials say such examples explain why the United States Department of Labor and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have placed more racketeering investigators in New York than in any other city. Although other cities may have extensive corruption in two or three unions -- in Chicago, it is the teamsters, hotel workers and laborers -- in New York, there have been deep-seated problems in many unions, including those involving the carpenters, government employees, ironworkers, longshoremen, mason tenders, painters, plumbers, service employees and teamsters.
A confluence of factors -- historic, demographic, economic and political -- has made New York the mother lode of union corruption. Those factors include the city's entrenched Mafia presence, its huge construction industry, many immigrant workers and the juxtaposition of muscular unions and small, vulnerable businesses.
For New Yorkers, the price of union corruption has been high. For example, it has raised costs to erect a building, to exhibit at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and to hire private garbage haulers.
For labor leaders, there is concern that all the corruption is souring the public on unions and eclipsing the positive developments that point to a rebirth of labor. Those developments include last year's 100,000 increase in union membership nationwide, labor's successes in electing union-friendly candidates to Congress last November and the continuing campaigns to unionize hotel maids, home health aides and doctors around the country.
"The high-profile episodes of corruption and skulduggery in New York and elsewhere are unquestionably hurting efforts to revive the labor movement," said Nelson Lichtenstein, a University of Virginia labor historian.
One symbol of labor's decay in New York is that Plumbers Local 2, famed for giving a start to George Meany, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president from 1955 to 1979, was disgraced in 1996, when its leaders pleaded guilty to extorting nearly $1 million in bribes to arrange sweetheart contracts.
New York's labor leaders say there is far less corruption, especially the heavy-duty variety like extortion and beatings, than in the days of the film "On the Waterfront," during the 1950's, largely because of persistent efforts by district attorneys and Federal prosecutors. City labor leaders say that New York has some of the nation's most honest and respected unions, like the United Federation of Teachers and 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union.
But Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union -- the man who put Mr. Bevona's Local 32B-32J into trusteeship this month -- complained that the excesses and crimes of New York unions often made the public overlook the good things about labor.
Mr. Stern boasted, for instance, that last year, 1199, a Service Employees International affiliate, negotiated the best contract for hospital workers in the nation's history. "But compared to what happened with Local 32B-32J, that kind of success gets overwhelmed," he said.
Although Mr. Bevona has not been accused of any crimes, the union movement has been acutely embarrassed by his unusual salary, his luxurious penthouse and the $1.5 million he received in severance pay and unused vacation.
Despite the long roster of wrongdoing, many union officials say that as a result of all the trusteeships and oversight, New York labor may be at a turning point and may end up more honest and vigorous.
"I'm very optimistic about the city's labor movement right now," said Henry Tamarin, president of a once-corrupt New York local of restaurant workers, which has been cleaned up and transformed into a model of aggressive union organizing. "There's a lot of new leadership, and there's really an opportunity to turn things around, to do more organizing, to get more involved in politics in a way we haven't seen for years."
Any analyst of New York's unions points, of course, to the Mafia as a major factor behind labor corruption, especially in the many teamster locals that have been involved in kickbacks, shakedowns and embezzlement. For example, before Teamsters Local 282 was placed into trusteeship in 1995, prosecutors showed that it was controlled by John J. Gotti's crime family. The 4,000-member local, whose members deliver building materials, often threatened slowdowns to extort money from building contractors, for whom delays could cost millions of dollars, prosecutors said.
Other factors have also fueled New York's labor corruption. Unlike Detroit and Pittsburgh, which were long dominated by large companies in a single industry, New York's economy is characterized by tens of thousands of small businesses, desperate to outlast the competition. This industrial structure has enabled some unions to extort money from these businesses or to offer sweetheart deals in exchange for payoffs.
Lois Gray, a Cornell labor relations professor, said: "Small companies in highly competitive industries are much more tempted to buy their way through a labor problem. It would be hard for G.M. to do that. They're too much in the public eye."
The city's work force is also made up in large part of immigrants, who often do not know their rights and are too insecure to challenge dishonest union leaders. And because many New York unions are composed primarily of one ethnic group, members often feel they would betray their group if they ratted on venal leaders.
Some labor experts say another factor feeding corruption is that unions contribute millions of dollars to city and state politicians, helping make government officials less aggressive in investigating unions and passing strict laws to regulate them.
"Public employee unions are cash cows at election time," said Mark Rosenthal, president of a motor vehicle operators' local, who had a major role in unearthing corruption at District Council 37. "They feel they can keep Democratic and Republican politicians off their backs. They felt untouchable because of that."
In many national unions, the New York locals are the biggest units by far. As a result, leaders of the parent unions are often loath to pressure wayward New York locals to stop cutting corners for fear that the those locals will fight against their re-election.
Many members of District Council 37 fault the parent union for waiting until December to put the council into trusteeship even though the Manhattan District Attorney had long been investigating allegations of kickbacks, embezzlement and vote fraud. The president of the local in the council that represents 25,000 cafeteria workers and crossing guards has already been ousted because a union panel found he misappropriated more than $1.5 million, while other officials have acknowledged rigging the council's 1996 contract ratification vote.
"Parent unions have often been very slow to act," said Carl Biers, executive director of the Association for Union Democracy, a Brooklyn-based group. "In many unions, there is great reluctance to recognize that corruption is a problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stanley Hill. Gus Bevona (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Scandals for New York's Labor Unions
 
FEBRUARY 1999 -- The parent union, the Service Employees International Union, forces Gus Bevona, president of the 55,000-member Local 32B-32J, into retirement, because it is unhappy with his salary, perks and undemocratic rule.
 
FEBRUARY 1999 -- Federal prosecutors get a three-year extension of the four-year-old trusteeship of the 13,000-member Mason Tenders District Council, which represents construction workers. Prosecutors say its officials wasted or stole more than $50 million from its benefit fund.
 
DECEMBER 1998 -- The parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, imposes direct control of District Council 37, which represents 123,000 city workers and faces the Manhattan District Attorney's investigation into allegations of kickbacks, embezzlement and vote fraud.
 
NOVEMBER 1998 -- Joseph DeCanio, president of a local representing 1,000 city highway laborers, pleads guilty to helping fix union elections and receiving more than $50,000 in kickbacks from providing Thanksgiving turkeys to other locals.
 
JUNE 1998 -- The former president of the transit police union and three union lawyers and advisers are sentenced to prison in a kickback and bribery scheme.
 
JUNE 1998 -- A union judicial panel expels Charles Hughes, president of a District Council local for school crossing guards and cafeteria workers, finding that he misappropriated more than $1.7 million.
 
MARCH 1998 -- A Federal jury convicts Frederick W. Devine, former president of New York's 25,000-member District Council of Carpenters, of stealing more than $50,000 that had been earmarked to create jobs for unemployed carpenters.
 
AUGUST 1997 -- The parent union imposes trusteeship on Service Employees Local 144, representing 30,000 health care workers, finding that the president ran up more than $100,000 in questionable hotel and restaurant charges. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (84%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (84%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ETHICS; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ETHICS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MURDER (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); ELECTION FRAUD (58%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



347 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Marvin Miller, Hall of Famer

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW

 BODY:
ONE day in the late 1970's, Bowie Kuhn, then the commissioner of baseball, invited Marvin Miller, then the executive director of the Major League Players Association, to lunch for the first and only time. At one point Kuhn said to Miller, his adversary of more than 10 years: "Look, Marvin, you've beaten the owners at every turn. And now the owners need a victory."
Miller, as he recently recalled, couldn't believe his ears. "Bowie," asked Miller, "are you suggesting I throw the game?" 
 Miller did not, and the owners continued their losing streak. The owners lost at every turn, as Kuhn said, because one man had on his side the insight, the foresight, the experience, the courage and the style -- unruffled, unflappable, undeterred -- as well as the United States Constitution and labor law. Miller led the players, often at dramatic junctures, out of virtual subservience and into the democratic system of America.
A man of medium height, with a mustache and a quiet, patient demeanor, Miller took over in 1966 as executive director of a loosely organized group of ballplayers, with assets of a file cabinet and about $5,400. He shaped them into what many believe is the most successful union not just in sports, but in the history of American labor.
Not only did he work to raise the level of earnings -- the average salary of a major leaguer when he began was $19,000 a year; it is now $1.4 million -- but he helped improve playing conditions, from padded outfield walls and better-defined warning tracks to safer locker rooms. He even helped improve play, according to Henry Aaron, allowing players more financial freedom to remain in better shape during the off season instead of having to work at jobs like insurance salesman (Aaron) or sporting goods salesman (Andy Pafko). He was also instrumental in improving scheduling, such as negating night games on get-away days. And he gave players the freedom that other American workers had -- his cataclysmic battle for free agency ended the reserve clause, which had prevented players from bargaining for their services on the open market. As a result, a greater number of teams won pennants than ever before, attendance figures broke records season after season, and the value of teams increased (the Yankees were purchased for $10 million in 1973 and today are worth $600 million or more).
Along the way, he also took one of the poorest benefit plans and built it into one of the best.
Jim Bunning, now a United States Senator and a Baseball Hall of Famer who, along with Robin Roberts and Harvey Kuenn, led a players' committee to hire someone to lead their meager union, once said, "The two proudest things I take out of baseball were the perfect game I pitched and being part of the selection group that chose Marvin Miller as executive director."
Aaron, the home run champion and now senior vice president of the Atlanta Braves, once said, "Marvin Miller is as important to the history of baseball as Jackie Robinson."
And Roberts, the Hall of Fame pitcher, said: "I don't know of anyone who changed the game more than Marvin Miller. His legacy is that, through his work, ballplayers for the first time attained dignity from owners. He changed a monopoly into a more realistic setup. He deserves to be in the Hall of Fame."
Two weeks from today, on March 2, the Veterans Committee of the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., will gather and vote on the inclusion of new members in their shrine. One of the leading candidates is Orlando Cepeda, the fine first baseman whose best slugging years were with the Giants and Cardinals. His recently published autobiography, "Baby Bull," written with Herb Fagen, ably presents the case for Cepeda, who was once imprisoned for 10 months in Puerto Rico for possession of marijuana. Cepeda's baseball accomplishments should merit him selection to the Hall of Fame, just as Miller's do.
But in his way, Miller, who was born in the Bronx in 1917 and who retired in 1985 and lives in Manhattan, is as controversial a choice as Cepeda. Miller is still resented by owners, but shouldn't be. Owners, who feared a thinning of their substantial pocketbooks, had presented him as an ogre from the moment he took his position. He was painted by them as one among "union goons" for his work as chief economist and negotiator for the United Steelworkers.
Kuhn declared on the witness stand in a courtroom that free agency would "ruin" baseball.
When Miller once went to a spring-training camp to talk with players in an outfield meeting -- they were refused use of the locker room -- the Astros' manager, Leo Durocher, fungoed baseballs in an attempt to hit Miller.
But virtually by himself, one decent man, with knowledge and the mission to do the best job possible, beat the owners with their teams of lawyers and press agents, time after time after time.
And despite the overwhelming resistance, he helped improve both the game and the lives of players -- and, as it turned out, the lives of the owners, as well. And not just in baseball, but, eventually, in all team sports in this country.
The Veterans Committee would distinguish itself and do what is right and unequivocally just by voting Marvin Miller into the Baseball Hall of Fame.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Miller's vision turned the Major League Players Association into a successful union and had an almost revolutionary impact on the game.
(Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BASEBALL HALL OF FAME (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); 

PERSON: JIM BUNNING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



348 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Judging the Mexican Drug War

 BODY:
Mexican officials recently unveiled a $400 million high-tech anti-narcotics strategy billed as a "total war" on drug trafficking. The announcement was no surprise. Grandiose plans for stopping the flow of cocaine and lavish praise from Washington for Mexico's anti-drug efforts have become annual February events. That is because President Clinton must certify by March 1 which countries are reliable partners in the war on drugs. The process has become an annual exercise in hypocrisy and should be stopped, in part because the use of illegal drugs in the United States fuels the problem. But as long as certification is required by law, Washington should tell the truth about Mexico, which does not merit endorsement.
Last year, Gen. Barry McCaffrey, the White House drug czar, naively called Mexican cooperation "absolutely superlative." The State Department said last week that the Government of President Ernesto Zedillo is "strongly committed" to fighting drug trafficking. Today, as President Clinton meets with President Zedillo, he may echo this praise of Mexico's anti-drug efforts. 
 Drug corruption, which makes accomplices out of the very agencies designed to combat trafficking, has stymied governments worldwide. Ironically, part of the reason for Mexico's losing battle is poor advice from Washington, which has urged Mexico to rely on the military. This has simply spread the taint to soldiers. But Mr. Zedillo's attack on corruption has been halfhearted, perhaps because some officials accused are powerful members of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party.
If anything, Mexico's efforts are slipping. The Times reported yesterday that 1998 saw a significant decline in seizures of drugs, and that nearly all identified drug kingpins remain at large. Mexico has declined to extradite alleged criminals to the United States.
The drug certification laws allow Washington to state that Mexico is not fully cooperating, but waive the accompanying economic penalties on national-security grounds. This is the choice the Clinton Administration should make. Congress should also repeal the annual certification process, which forces the Administration to choose between damaging relations with American allies and whitewashing their poor performance. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS DRUG POLICY (95%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EXTRADITION (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); COCAINE (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



349 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data;
Can You Play 'Feelings' On the Ocarina?

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
The new Nintendo video game, Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, is on pace to become one of the best-selling video games ever. And its popularity seems to have spawned another craze -- demand for real ocarinas, those flute-like musical instruments that look like sweet potatoes with finger holes.
In the video game, its elfin hero, Link, travels through time and the magical world of Hyrule, doing battle with his nemesis, Ganondorf, to save Princess Zelda. Playing his ocarina transports Link through time and space. 
 Many Nintendo fans are transporting themselves on the Web in search of their own ocarinas. Anita Feng, an artisan in Issaquah, Wash., who has been making traditional-style ceramic ocarinas for 25 years, has seen her business more than double to about 60 handmade instruments a month, since the Nintendo game was released in November.
"Right now, about three-fourths of my business is from people who played the game," said Ms. Feng, who operates the Anita's Ocarinas site (www.scn.org/bg599). She said she received 5 to 10 orders daily, primarily for the 10-hole ocarinas, like the one played by Luke.
Ms. Feng said she might have to hire help to handle the new orders.
The ocarina boomlet brings rare cachet to an instrument believed to have been invented in the 1860's by an Italian, Guiseppe Donati, who gave them a name meaning "little goose." But then, rarely has there been a video game as popular as the latest version of Zelda, who has been a Nintendo character since 1987.
During the last six weeks of 1998, the game sold about 2.5 million units, generating $150 million in revenue. Nintendo is projecting eventual sales of six million copies or more of Ocarina in Time.
While Ms. Feng has seen her business boom, not all ocarina makers have been as lucky. Charlie Hind, for instance, says he has seen only a limited increase in ocarina sales at Hind Musical Instruments (www.germanmarketplace.com/hind.htm.) Zelda fans may revel in virtual adventures on screen, but when it comes to ocarinas they seem to demand authenticity. Some have scoffed at buying Mr. Hind's ocarinas, which instead of being ceramic are made of wood. SHARON R. KING
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO NINTENDO CO LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NINTENDO CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; OCARINAS (MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS) WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); MUSIC (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW ORDERS (71%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R PRINCESS ZELDA (93%); ANITA FENG (92%); CHARLIE HIND (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



350 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: More Americans Going to Cuba As Performers

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS 

 BODY:
On Dec. 31, 1958, the pianist Byron Janis performed in Santiago de Cuba for an audience of ecstatic upper-class Cubans and nervous soldiers; Fidel Castro was finally coming down from the hills to take over. The next day Mr. Castro arrived, and Mr. Janis left for New York. He was one of the last United States musicians to perform in pre-revolutionary Cuba.
Now, after 40 years of hostility between the two countries and an American economic blockade that restricts travel to Cuba, Mr. Janis will be performing in Havana next month. And he will not be there alone. 
 The next few months may be unprecedented in the cultural history of post-revolutionary Cuba, as a stream of performers and representatives of arts organizations from the United States arrive in the wake of the Pope's visit last year and the Clinton Administration's easing of restrictions last month to make cultural exchanges easier. Mr. Janis was invited by the Cuban Government and given the green light by the United States Treasury Department, which enforces the Helms-Burton Act, the 1996 measure that further tightened economic sanctions against the Communist Cuban state.
This month, a segment of MTV's "Road Rules" will be filmed in Havana, with cast members shown playing baseball and listening to music at a nightclub. The Baltimore Orioles are negotiating an exhibition game with the Cuban national team next month. George C. Wolfe, the producer of the Joseph Papp Public Theater/ New York Shakespeare Festival, has spent a week in Havana, scouting a location for "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk," his Tony Award-winning musical history of African-Americans, which just closed on Broadway.
And at the end of March a Los Angeles organization called Music Bridges will send some 70 American pop, country and jazz musicians, ranging from Burt Bacharach and Jimmy Buffett to the Indigo Girls, to spend a week writing songs with Cuban musicians. A concert at the end of their stay is to feature the products of the encounter.
"There's no precedent for anything like Music Bridges at all," said William Martinez, a lawyer and promoter in San Francisco who specializes in navigating the tricky waters of the Helms-Burton Act for Americans who want to travel to Cuba. He is responsible for bringing in many of the Cuban musical groups that have been touring the United States.
"If you had asked me if this was possible five years ago," Mr. Martinez said, "I would have said no."
Five years ago he was suing the United States Government to let a Cuban pop group, Mezcla, come in and tour; the Government refused, but the case solidified sentiment against the Government's position, which at the time was to refuse most requests. Mr. Martinez lost that case, but now the floodgates have opened, and Cuban dance, theater and music groups of all kinds have been crisscrossing this country.
These days, Mr. Martinez says, visa delays are likely to be the result of volume, not intransigence. Tours by Cuban bands have become routine, and even in Miami, where anti-Castro Cuban exile groups would protest any sort of nonhostile communication between the countries, Cuban bands playing at Saturday night parties are now commonplace.
What is new in the cultural exchange is the desire and ability of American artists to perform in Cuba. Travel to the island, legal and illegal, has been fashionable for several years. The Marina Hemingway in Havana is filled with American pleasure boats. And official delegations from organizations like the Smithsonian Institution are offset by Hollywood stars looking to revel in the cigars, rum and night life of Havana. While the Havana Jazz Festival has intermittently attracted American musicians, and the Havana Film Festival has lured visitors from the United States, there has been little American performance activity till now.
The visit by Pope John Paul II and the easing of some economic restrictions (although the embargo was not lifted) have brought new attention to a culture and a country that was already popular among intellectuals and artists as well as adventurous tourists willing to enter illegally through a third country. All this travel begins to restore a pre-revolutionary relationship between the two countries that included everything from high culture to low.
The intense current curiosity about Cuba focuses on everything from the music and the cigars to the Hernandez brothers in baseball. And for some Americans, what further fuels the desire to visit Cuba is the sentiment that the two cultures should not be separated for ideological reasons.
Mr. Wolfe, who is planning to open "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk" in September, said he saw the Caribbean and South America as a mirror reflection of the United States. "We're each other's story," he said. "I'm curious what kind of exchange there will be between the audience and performers, because there are so many parallels between the two countries."
He said some Cubans were excited about the production "because it was the first time a Broadway show would be in Cuba."
"After members of the Cuban Government saw the show," he added, "they were excited by the cultural reality of the show. It's a work that's about history, rhythm and the perpetual process of redefining yourself in a new world, and Cuba is perfect place to take a work like that."
The trips to Cuba are made possible by a provision in in the Helms-Burton Act that allows for intercultural exchange, although the act generally seeks to restrict contact, especially business contact, between the two countries. Under the provision, those United States citizens who are granted licenses by the Treasury Department for educational or cultural purposes are allowed to visit Cuba but may not spend more than $100 a day there.
Some opponents of the licensing system say that it is administered arbitrarily and that Treasury officials holds up travel permits. Global Exchange, a 10-year-old educational travel organization based in San Francisco, has challenged Helms-Burton by sending American students and musicians to Cuba through a third country. The Treasury Department has sent the group notice to cease the Cuba trips and has frozen the company's assets.
"We feel the policy is erratic at best," said Pam Montanaro, coordinator of the Cuba program at Global Exchange. "Academics are required to jump through hoops if the Government doesn't want them to spread their findings on Cuba. We're opposed to the embargo, so they've been hard on us. But the right to travel is a human right that is recognized by many countries internationally. For the Government to promote democracy in Cuba while trampling on our human rights here is hypocritical, so we're going to fight it."
The Treasury Department did not respond to requests for comment.
Meanwhile private interest in Cuba keeps boiling along. Peter Buck, a member of the rock group R.E.M., will be going to Havana with Music Bridges.
"I've read a lot about Cuba, know Cubans, listen to the music, eat the food and am familiar with the culture, but I haven't been able to go," he said. "I'm not going starry eyed, but I'm curious. When the wall went down in Berlin, it showed me that politics don't end a situation. Finally it was the kids, who wanted rock-and-roll and jeans that changed the culture. What I've learned from traveling around the world is that the people don't have anything to do with the government."
The Cuban Government is seemingly happy about all the activity. It has the most to gain by the exchanges, attracting not only attention to its economic plight but also the support of major entertainment figures and the dollars they may bring. With the loss of Soviet sponsorship, the United States embargo and bad internal economic planning, the country is in financial shambles.
"We're not going to be gaining anything financially," said Tomas Misas, the director of international relations for the Cuban Government's Institute of Music. "We're financially in a tough situation, but I think that finally culture all over the world wins in programs like this. We're always ready to enrich the culture through common experience. To get Byron Janis here for many people is a dream. We're always ready for projects like this."
Mr. Janis, who remembers playing in the Soviet Union during the crisis that followed the shooting down of an American U-2 plane, sees his return to Cuba as a logical continuation of his desire to bring people together.
"I performed in Cuba before the revolution all the time," Mr. Janis said. "The blockade seems like something governmental. It really has nothing to do with the people. And my feeling is that music is the perfect way of bringing the countries together. I hope that after I've opened the door to classical music, major American classical stars will start making the trip."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about increased cultural exchanges since the United States easing of restrictions on travel to Cuba misstated the Treasury Department action against a group that has illegally sent travelers there. In 1994 the Treasury Department briefly froze the bank account of the Freedom to Travel Campaign, a coalition of 50 nonprofit groups including Global Exchange of San Francisco, in response to the coalition's challenge of the travel ban. Global Exchange's assets have not been frozen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the recent Havana Jazz Festival, Jesus (Chucho) Valdes, left, a Cuban pianist and festival official, welcomed the American trumpeter Roy Hargrove. (Marc Pokempner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); HISTORY (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); SONG WRITING (71%); BASEBALL (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); POPE (JOHN PAUL II); WATROUS, PETER FIDEL CASTRO (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999



351 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH: RITA COLWELL;
'Always, Always, Going Against the Norm'

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS 

 BODY:
A year ago, when Dr. Rita Colwell was sworn in as the director of the National Science Foundation, new ground in science and politics was broken. Dr. Colwell, a microbiologist now 64 years old, became the first woman and the first biological scientist to head the Federal agency, whose $3.6 billion budget provides financing for basic nonmedical research in science and engineering.
Before accepting the foundation post, Dr. Colwell was president of the University of Maryland's Biotechnology Institute and one of the world's major experts on cholera. 
 She spoke during a break in a recent meeting of American Association for the Advancement of Science in Anaheim, Calif.
Q. You went to Purdue University during the early 1950's, the time when the ideology that held that women were best off as housewives and mothers was burning strongest. What was it like to be a woman with scientific ambitions during that era?
A. It felt peculiar wanting to be a scientist when everyone around me majored in home economics. On the other hand, I had encouraging teachers. For instance, at Purdue, I took a course with a bacteriologist named Dorothy Powelson. A woman bacteriologist in those days was unbelievably rare. Her approach was, "Look under the microscope and what do you see?" She got me hooked.
My goal, originally, was to go to medical school. But in the last semester of my senior year, I met this handsome 6-foot-2 physical chemistry graduate student, Jack Colwell, and after one date, we decided to get married. The marriage, incidentally, has lasted for 40-plus years. So I think it was a good decision. But once I made it, medical school was out.
So I began looking for a bacteriology fellowship. I went to the chairman of the department of bacteriology and told him of my new plans. "We don't waste fellowships on women," he declared.
The day was saved by my adviser, Dr. Alan Burdick, a geneticist, and he said: "O.K., their loss is our gain. Would you like a fellowship to study genetics?" This was the foundation of my molecular biology career.
Q. Did you encounter much prejudice during those years?
A. Oh, yes. In 1961, my husband was awarded a fellowship in Canada. When I applied for one, too, the Canadian National Research Council rejected me because of their "anti-nepotism" rule, which precluded offering fellowships to husbands and wives. Eventually, I obtained some funds from the National Science Foundation and was offered laboratory space in Ottawa. The University of Washington, where I'd received my doctorate, then appointed me a research assistant professor and granted me a leave of absence. So in this complicated way, I was able to be with my husband and still do my research.
You were always, always, going against the norm, the dogma. And that does wear on a person after a while.
Q. Is the path still full of obstacles?
A. They are there, sometimes. Especially when you're heading organizations that used to be run by men. The academic world is still a closed circle. I try to work around that.
For instance, sometimes at meetings, a woman will suggest something and there's no response afterward. Then, a male colleague says exactly what you said and they say, "By God, that's a good thing to do!" I've learned to seed the conversation quietly with my ideas, and then they get adopted. You don't get the credit, but if you're concerned about credit, nothing gets done.
Q. About your area of research, cholera. Why was your discovery -- that the cholera bacterium exists in a dormant stage in most of the world's water -- a benchmark in the control of the disease?
A. Because before our findings were published, the medical community always believed cholera was transmitted person to person, that it had a human host or reservoir. We showed it exists in the environment, on plankton, and in a dormant stage between epidemics. The implication of that is that when the plankton populations bloom in the spring and again in the fall in countries like Bangladesh, the bacterial numbers go way up -- along with the increase in numbers in plankton. So if the water that is used directly for drinking has large numbers of cholera bacteria in it, there may then be enough bacteria present to cause the disease.
Q. One idea you've come up with for cholera control in Bangladesh is getting people to filter their drinking water by pouring it through layers of sari cloth. How did such a simple notion come to you?
A. I thought if one could remove the zooplankton -- the copepod on the zoo plankton serve as host to the cholera bacteria in drinking water -- we could go a long way toward curbing the disease.
The problem was that sophisticated water filters were too expensive for Bangladesh, one of the least wealthy countries on earth. So the thought was, "What could be used as a filter that exists in everyday life?"
The answer was cloth, sari cloth, which even the poorest of the poor have.
Q. Has your method gained acceptance?
A. Where people use it, yes. Recently, I was in Bangladesh with a crew from Maryland Public Television and we went to a village where we asked a woman if she'd gather water for drinking.
She did that and she could see plankton and various larval stages swimming about the unfiltered water. "The cause of cholera is on the particles in the water," I explained. We then showed her how to use the sari cloth as a filter. The filtered water wasn't crystal clear, but it was clearer than the unfiltered water. There was nothing swimming in it.
After that, the cameraman wanted a shot of her going again to collect water and drinking it, and she said, no -- she wasn't going to ever drink unstrained water anymore.
That woman "got it," in a minute!
Q. Let's talk about some of the areas of research the National Science Foundation supports. Do you think now that the cold war is over that the United States should be financing more research in Antarctica?
A. Oh, absolutely. The things we can learn about atmospherics science, physics, astronomy -- are done extraordinarily well at the South Pole. It's the least contaminated area in the world.
Q. Do you have an opinion about human embryo research?
A. I agree with Harold Varmus, the head of the National Institutes of Health, who said that human stem cell research is very important. It's an opportunity for us to learn how human cells differentiate and the potential is so great for developing a capacity for producing organs. I think the value to humanity, plus the wonderful information it can bring about life and development is so very, very important. I do think it's very fundamental.
Q. Vice President Gore recently announced a $366 million a year information technology research initiative that the N.S.F. will be heavily involved in and that will finance new computer hardware and software research. Why can't the computer industry, which is doing quite well, finance this sort of thing itself?
A. Because the basic software research requires this kind of investment. You need it in order to keep America at the cutting edge.
Let me just give you a vignette. I recently visited Seattle and the computer science department at the University of Washington and I met incredibly bright young people who were soaring like eagles with their research. Afterward, I went to Microsoft and again met some incredibly bright people. But it was like watching eagles soaring within the aviary. They were netted in because they had a product-driven challenge.
The United States, as a nation, has got to be at the forefront of this technology. The competition is keen from other countries. When they put up a new university in China, the first structure they build is the computer sciences building. Our military, our medical institutions, need to go that next step for those new kinds of languages that will link up a thousand processors for the kinds of research we need to do.
Q. On a different subject, do you think physicists make great husbands?
A. (Laughs) I think, yes. I know that anecdotes don't make statistics, but I was once on a panel for the National Institutes of Health and there were four prominent women there speaking. Afterward, we had lunch together, and it turned out that each one of us was married to a physicist.
We concluded that physicists have interesting work, a wide range of interests and are not overly concerned about their masculinity. Now obviously, you will find physicists who have none of these characteristics. But in general, we all felt this was so.
Q. So your advice to a bright woman looking for an appropriate man is: Go to a physics convention?
A. I'm not quite sure it's that simple. What I think you have to do is find someone who is interested in you as a partner, not as a domestic. My husband is the most gentle and supportive soul I've met in this life. We've been married a long time and it's been a powerful partnership. He's been a superb father and much involved with our two daughters. Both of them are scientists, by the way. Alison, 36, is with the U.S. Geological Survey. Stacie, 33, is an M.D./Ph.D. postdoc at Harvard.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Rita Colwell is the first woman to head the National Science Foundation, whose $3.6 billion budget finances basic research. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANAHEIM, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (93%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANAHEIM, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); PATHOLOGY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); WOMEN (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

PERSON: DREIFUS, CLAUDIA; COLWELL, RITA (DR) RITA COLWELL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



352 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Volvo Is Reported in Early Talks To Acquire U.S. Truck Maker

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
Volvo A.B., the Swedish automobile maker that agreed last month to sell its car division to the Ford Motor Company for $6.45 billion, has again turned its attention to the United States. But this time, the company is interested in being the buyer, and the property it is looking for is a truck manufacturer.
Junior-level executives from Volvo have held discussions with counterparts at the Navistar International Corporation, the Chicago-based maker of heavy trucks, school buses, diesel engines and service parts, people close to the talks said. But those talks, first reported in The Financial Times of London, are still preliminary and, according to one person, have not included any high-level negotiating between the chief executives of the companies. 
 Navistar, the person said, has not yet been persuaded to be taken over or even to sell part of its operations to Volvo. Volvo, the world's second-largest maker of heavy trucks, is interested in other American properties, as well, and also continues to explore opportunities in Europe.
Just last month, Volvo bought a 13 percent stake in Scania A.B., a rival Swedish truck maker, and it has said it is interested in buying the rest of the company. If Volvo did acquire all of Scania, the newly combined company would become the largest manufacturer of heavy trucks in Europe.
Any acquisition by Volvo in the truck sector would give it a market in which to compete more powerfully against major competitors, including DaimlerChrysler. That was something Volvo was not able to do in autos despite its well-respected brand name. And Volvo can afford to buy market share now that the sale to Ford is expected to leave it with a full pocketbook.
Navistar, with a market value of $2.3 billion, was formerly known as International Harvester and was a maker of agriculture machinery. The company set up its first overseas factory in 1905, in Sweden. But it fell on hard times in 1980 when a recession and a six-month strike by the United Automobile Workers hurt earnings and nearly forced it into bankruptcy. In 1985, the company sold its name and its agricultural equipment business to Tenneco Inc. A year later it was renamed Navistar International, specializing in heavy truck and engine manufacturing. Shares in Navistar shot up $2 on Friday, to close at $35.25.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (98%); VOLV.A (STO) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); NAV (NYSE) (86%); SCV.B (STO) (85%); SCV.A (STO) (85%); TEN (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (86%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); SWEDEN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: VOLVO AB; NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP AB VOLVO (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (86%); SCANIA AB (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (71%); TENNECO INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB; NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); SWEDEN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); DIESEL ENGINE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); STRIKES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (67%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



353 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: China Frees Political Journalist as a Visit by Albright Nears

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Two weeks before a planned visit here by the American Secretary of State, China granted early release today to a prominent journalist who has spent more than five years in prison for writing about Chinese politics in Hong Kong publications.
The journalist, Gao Yu, now 55, had served all but nine months of a six-year sentence, given at a closed trial in 1993 for "revealing state secrets." 
 Ms. Gao's sentence was widely viewed as a warning to other Chinese journalists not to venture onto sensitive ground, and her case became a cause of international press organizations.
She has also appeared on lists of high-profile political prisoners that senior American officials privately raise with China's leaders when urging them to improve China's record on human rights.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is expected here in early March to help prepare for an April visit to Washington by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji. Though the visit is intended to focus on economic and environmental issues, it is certain to be dogged by questions about the harsh sentences recently dealt to leading democracy campaigners here.
Ms. Gao's release came on the eve of the lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, China's biggest holiday.
"This is my happiest Spring Festival in 10 years," Ms. Gao's 27-year-old son, Zhao Meng, told reporters. He said she was in good spirits, but suffers from high blood pressure and heart problems and will seek medical care after spending this week resting with her husband and close relatives.
Authorities had turned down earlier requests for medical parole.
In 1989, Ms. Gao was deputy editor of the Economic Weekly magazine, which played a part in the pro-democracy ferment of that year and was shut down by authorities after the June 4 crushing of the Tiananmen Square demonstrations. Ms. Gao was arrested on June 3 and spent 15 months in jail without being formally charged.
In 1993, she was re-arrested after she wrote a series of articles about Chinese politics in two Hong Kong publications, Mirror Monthly and Overseas Chinese Daily.
The offending articles, written under a pseudonym, included one analyzing the continuing power of Deng Xiaoping, who was nominally retired. Another analyzed the Communist Party's retreat from its vow to separate the party and the Government. The Government charged that these were based on secret official documents, which she firmly denied.
Her arrest came two days before her planned departure to take up a fellowship at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in New York.
She received the six-year sentence in late 1994. "This sentence can devastate my health but not my spirits," she said in a defiant statement to the court, noting that her body was ailing after the year in detention awaiting trial. "I am willing to sacrifice all that I have for my country's modernization and journalism," she said.
In 1997, Ms. Gao received Unesco's first annual award for press freedom. In a response she relayed through relatives during one of their monthly 30-minute prison visits, she expressed deep thanks for the support and vowed: "When I leave prison and regain my freedom, I will use my pen to repay the world and my homeland."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gao Yu, a political journalist who was sentenced to six years in prison at a closed trial in 1993 for "revealing state secrets," in a file photo. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PRISONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); ARRESTS (88%); PAROLE (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GAO YU; ECKHOLM, ERIK; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



354 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: France Sells a Third of Aerospatiale to Groupe Lagardere

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 15

 BODY:
The French Government announced agreement today on the terms of a long-expected combination of the state-owned Aerospatiale group and the privately owned Matra High Technology.
Under the agreement, Groupe Lagardere, Matra's owner, will pay the Government as much as $345 million for a third of the shares in the new company, Aerospatiale-Matra. 
 It would become the world's fifth-largest military and aerospace contractor -- manufacturing satellites, rocket launchers, helicopters, weapons systems, fighter-bombers and fighters, as well as civilian aircraft.
The authorities here also hope that the restructured French military giant could eventually attract DaimlerChrysler Aerospace, a unit of DaimlerChrysler of Germany.
Such a combination would produce a huge armaments contractor that could compete effectively with British Aerospace, which has just acquired the Marconi armaments unit from General Electric of Britain, and with Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Raytheon in the United States. Creating a strong competitor would help fulfill President Jacques Chirac's hope of keeping Europe on the map as a global arms power, with technology to match.
Aerospatiale also owns a 37.9 percent share in Airbus Industrie, the four-nation European consortium that is Boeing's biggest competitor as a builder of civilian airliners.
The sale of an Aerospatiale stake to private industry will essentially complete a vast reorganization of French defenses announced three years ago by Mr. Chirac, a conservative who abolished the draft and began privatization of much of the vast French military-industrial complex.
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin's Socialist Cabinet, which came to office in June 1997, carried on with most of the plan, but prefers to call the partial privatizations of state-owned companies an "opening of capital."
British Aerospace's deal for Marconi last month came as a shock to the French, who had flirted with the hope that British Aerospace might choose to join forces with a French company instead. After that did not happen, French officials renewed efforts to attract DaimlerChrysler Aerospace, which had reportedly hoped for a deal with the British too.
But earlier this month, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, referring to the possibility of building a French-German company on the scale of the American and British competition, warned, "It will only succeed if the French are willing to make greater progress in privatizing and reducing the state's share in the enterprise." That got the green light with publication of a decree by Mr. Jospin over the weekend announcing the decision to reduce state ownership in Aerospatiale below 50 percent.
The Government's announcement today said that the state would remain the largest single owner, even after the partial privatization. A stock issue is expected to be floated before the second half of the year "if market conditions permit," the announcement said.
Aerospatiale and Matra kept silent today, but a statement released by Economics Minister Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Defense Minister Alain Richard and Transport Minister Jean-Claude Gayssot said the sale of the stake would not mean a loss of jobs.
Groupe Lagardere -- a diversified giant with publishing, banking and telecommunications businesses -- will initially pay $147 million for its interest in the company and as much as $198 million more, depending on the market value of Aerospatiale-Matra shares.
Outside bank appraisals had valued the shares' potential above $800 million, according to French press reports, prompting some criticism from the Socialist Cabinet's labor union supporters that it had sold out to private enterprise for too little.
Under the plan, Lagardere's chairman, Jean-Luc Lagardere, 71, will become head of Aerospatiale-Matra's supervisory board; Yves Michot, Aerospatiale's chairman and chief executive, will be president of the executive directorate.
Aerospatiale acquired the state's 45.76 percent share in Dassault Aviation, the privately held maker of the Mirage 2000 and Rafale fighter planes and Falcon executive jets, late last year.
The French Government will retain a stake of 45 to 49 percent in the new company.
Aerospatiale had revenue of 58 billion francs -- roughly $10 billion -- last year and profit in the first half of the year of 1.216 billion francs or $210 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (94%); EAD (MCE) (94%); MMB (PAR) (93%); BA (LSE) (85%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (93%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; AEROSPATIALE; MATRA HIGH TECHNOLOGY; AEROSPATIALE-MATRA; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AEROSPACE AG EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (94%); LAGARDERE SCA (93%); MATRA MANUFACTURING & SERVICES SAS (92%); AIRBUS SAS (91%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (85%); BOEING CO (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; AEROSPATIALE; MATRA HIGH TECHNOLOGY; AEROSPATIALE-MATRA; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AEROSPACE AG EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; EUROPE; FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRIVATIZATION MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); NEW ISSUES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HELICOPTERS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



355 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Calling In Experts to Fix Microsoft if It's Broken

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
For four months, in a Federal courtroom in Washington, the Government has relentlessly portrayed the Microsoft Corporation as a bullying monopolist. Now, as the antitrust trial enters the home stretch, the Government is moving beyond accusations to try to figure out how to curb the software giant without crippling it.
The Justice Department and 19 states suing Microsoft -- advised by a small group of economists, business school and law professors -- are scrambling to devise a set of remedial steps to recommend to the court if the Government wins the case. 
 Most legal experts who have followed the trial expect that Microsoft will be found to have violated antitrust laws.
No decision has been reached on a preferred remedy, according to people involved in the effort. But the suggested steps, they say, fall broadly into two groups. One set of advisers is pushing for more radical "structural" remedies -- breaking up Microsoft or forcing it to license the software code for its industry-standard Windows operating system.
Another group favors "behavioral" remedies -- prohibiting Microsoft from writing exclusive contracts, requiring it to publicly disclose the software specifications for Windows, forcing it to publish a Windows pricing list for major manufacturers, and requiring antitrust training for all Microsoft managers.
Both approaches pose problems. A sweeping structural remedy is risky because it could reshuffle one of the nation's crucial high-technology industries with uncertain results. Detailed behavioral remedies could mire the Government and the courts in a kind of permanent regulatory oversight of Microsoft.
The remedy phase of legal proceedings, which will occur after trial if the Government wins, is when the key public policy issues in the Microsoft case will be addressed. And it represents a great challenge for the Government.
"Historically, the Government has spent its time on showing bad conduct on the part of the dominant firm in antitrust cases, and far too little attention has been paid to what should be done about it," said William Kovacic, a professor at the George Washington University Law School.
To aid in the effort, the Justice Department is tapping outside advisers including Timothy Bresnahan, a Stanford University economist and co-chairman of Stanford's Computer Industry Project. The state attorneys general also have consultants including Herbert Hovenkamp, an antitrust expert and law professor at the University of Iowa. In the last few weeks, several advisers have been asked to submit memos with recommendations to Washington.
But these suggestions are only a set of options for the consideration of Joel I. Klein, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Department's antitrust division, and his boss, Attorney General Janet Reno. Because any steps that would seriously affect Microsoft amount to a major economic policy move, it would be expected that the White House and Congressional leaders would be consulted as well.
But ultimately, it would be up to the courts to decide what remedy, if any, should be imposed. And since any ruling by the Federal District Court will be appealed, whatever remedy is eventually approved may not go into effect for two years or more. That means that the Government is engaged in setting ground rules for the future instead of restoring competition in the Internet browser market, the main focus of the suit filed last May.
Microsoft dismisses the debate over remedies. "It's all academic because Microsoft will win the case when all is said and done," said Charles F. Rule, a former senior Justice Department official who is a consultant to Microsoft. "And this talk of structural remedies is the antitrust equivalent of nuclear winter -- just bizarre."
The most drastic structural remedy, of course, would be to break up Microsoft. One approach would be to slice it up into one company that has the Windows operating system and another that has other software applications, like the Microsoft Office suite of word processing, spreadsheet and data base programs.
Another breakup proposal is to carve Microsoft into two to five identical companies, each with the programming code for all Microsoft products. The resulting companies -- the "Baby Bills," after Microsoft's chairman, William H. Gates, and a pun on the Baby Bells formed in the split-up of AT&T -- would then compete with each other.
This approach has been promoted by some of Microsoft's harshest critics -- for months by Gary L. Reback, a former legal adviser to the rival Netscape Communications Corporation, and more recently by Robert H. Bork, the former Federal judge, who is a consultant to Netscape.
The courts have occasionally endorsed breakup remedies -- notably, in the cases of Standard Oil in 1911 and AT&T in 1984. But these have been the exception. Generally, the courts have sided with Judge Charles Wyzanski, who in 1954 wrote in a landmark case, United States v. United Shoe Machinery: "Judges in prescribing remedies have known their own limitations. They do not ex officio have economic or political training. Their prophecies as to the economic future are not guided by unusually subtle judgment."
A more modest structural remedy would be to force Microsoft to auction off its Windows programming code, along with the Windows brand name, to two to four companies.
"You can break up the monopoly without having to break up the company," Professor Hovenkamp said.
The purchasing companies -- perhaps I.B.M., Sun Microsystems and others -- would then compete with Microsoft in the operating systems business, restraining prices and fostering innovation, he suggested.
But the danger of that approach, critics say, is that it runs the risk of having incompatible operating systems. There is an enormous benefit to consumers, they say, of having one industry-standard operating system.
Windows is a natural monopoly, so let it be, this argument goes. Instead, the focus should be on changing Microsoft's behavior so that it cannot use its operating-systems monopoly to thwart competition in new areas -- and browsing software has been just one example of this broader consideration.
"There are ways to make it more difficult for Microsoft to leverage its Windows monopoly without crippling Microsoft," said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
A suggested behavioral remedy is to force Microsoft to publish at one time the software hooks, or application program interfaces, to which rival software makers must write programs if they are to run on Windows. This would address the accussation, which Microsoft denies, that the company releases this software information in stages, with favored companies getting special treatment, and that it keeps some critical knowledge of the operating system to itself.
Another suggested remedy is to force Microsoft to publish a most-favored-customer pricing list for Windows -- the standard price available to all the major PC makers. This would prevent Microsoft from using Windows pricing to punish manufacturers who do not favor Microsoft products, a strategy that Microsoft also denies practicing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; PERSONAL COMPUTERS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); MANAGER TRAINING (65%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



356 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Casts Eye Northward;
Retailer Pushes Expansion, Squeezing Regional Chains

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
When Wal-Mart Stores proposed in 1990 building its first outlet in Vermont, in the village of Williston, it started a fight that turned ugly quickly. The Burlington Free Press ominously editorialized about the "New Jerseyification" of the scenic vacation town of 6,000 residents. The National Trust for Historic Preservation declared the entire state of Vermont and its little white-steepled towns "endangered" by suburban sprawl.
It took seven years of expensive battling before the store finally opened. During the same period, an effort to open a store in nearby St. Albans was blocked by the Vermont Environmental Board. 
 Today, however, Wal-Mart is no longer treated as an invader. The company, the nation's largest retailer, opened its fourth outlet in Vermont last month -- a new 70,000-square-foot store on the outskirts of Berlin, about 30 miles southeast of Williston. Despite complaints from preservationists and environmental groups, the entire process -- from filing a permit to greeting the first customers -- took little more than a year.
Wal-Mart's quiet little victory in Vermont has been echoed throughout the Northeast, where the retailer has lately been mounting an aggressive expansion drive with little of the uproar that accompanied its rocky start earlier in the decade.
What is particularly significant about the latest Northeast push is that most of the new stores are supercenters. Sprawling to as much as 200,000 square feet, these vast emporiums offer not only the apparel, housewares, and electronics available at most Wal-Mart stores but also groceries, pharmaceuticals and extras like eye care and auto service.
As a result, they compete with a much more diversified range of retailers than regular Wal-Marts. The average Wal-Mart supercenter rings up about $55 million to $65 million in annual sales -- almost double the volume of a regular Wal-Mart and seven times that of a rival discounter like Ames Department Stores.
According to some analysts, Wal-Mart stands to triple its supercenter presence in the region in just the next two years -- an expansion that could draw $3 billion more in annual sales from an already crowded marketplace. To put this figure in perspective, it exceeds the 1998 sales for any of the regional chains -- Ames, Bradlees and Grand Union.
At first, Wal-Mart's expansion will undoubtedly mean more opportunities for thrifty consumers and heightened rivalry among the stores who want their business. "Wal-Mart's expansion into the Northeast is going to create a killer competitive environment and an intense price war," predicted Burt Flickinger 3d, who has been studying regional retail patterns for three decades and is now managing director of Reach Marketing, a retail and marketing consulting agency in Westport, Conn.
Killer is the operative word. Mr. Flickinger says that not all the chains can survive -- and he is not shy about calling the race. He argues that Grand Union and the supermarket chains run by the Penn Traffic Company, a company now in bankruptcy that has a significant presence in eastern Pennsylvania, along with the retailers Ames and Bradlees, are among those with "questionable futures."
"The Northeast is only so big, and since Wal-Mart is the winner in worldwide retailing, it will be the winner here," he said.
As its competitors point out in defense of their own viability, Wal- Mart is not exactly invisible in the Northeast even now. With 244 of its regular discount stores -- like those in Williston and Berlin, Vt. -- as well as 28 supercenters, the retailer is already familiar to many consumers in New England, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
But the chain is entering what Wal-Mart watchers call the saturation phase in the Northeast. Dr. Kenneth Stone, an economist with the University of Iowa and a student of the Wal-Mart phenomenon, says that by its own standards, the retailer has barely begun to establish a foothold in the region. Sam Walton, the chain's founder, "used to joke that he likes his stores so close together that the managers compete against each other," Dr. Stone said.
Wal-Mart typically provides few details of its expansion plans for the year beyond an overall number of stores planned. This year it announced it intends to build 150 supercenters and 40 regular-size discount stores nationwide. When asked about analysts' projections, a Wal-Mart spokesman, Jay Allen, said that as of now the company had plans to build only 15 supercenters in the Northeast this year.
The company, however, has always followed the same game plan when it expands: namely, it builds an enormous distribution center and then constructs stores in concentric circles around it. So it is easy to make plausible deductions about Wal-Mart's ambitions in the Northeast.
In five of the last six years, the company has opened a major warehouse in the Northeast. Its newest, in New Bedford, Pa., is the first of its sites in the region that has the capacity to supply 75 supercenters. Mr. Flickinger estimates that 180 superstores will be built within the area in the next five years and that as many as 33 may be built this year. Mr. Allen does acknowledges that the giant New Bedford warehouse is currently operating far below capacity.
And Wal-Mart is not likely to stop with another several dozen supercenters in the Northeast. The retailer is building another supercenter supply depot in Johnstown, N.Y., scheduled to open in June 2000.
What might Wal-Mart ultimately take to be an appropriate number of supercenters for the Northeast? To get some idea of its preferred supercenter-to-consumer ratio, consider that Arkansas, its home state, with a population of 2.3 million, has 27 of the mega-outlets.
The new stores are expected to be in neither urban nor suburban areas, but in territories just beyond that. The retailer generally prefers to put its stores in semi-rural areas so it can have large spaces at low cost. Still, because such stores are typically built at highway interchanges they will be easily accessible to large swaths of the densely populated Northeast.
Wal-Mart's play comes at a time when competition among clothing discounters, its traditional competitors, has been heating up again in the Northeast. Several retailers are seeking to grow by picking up some of the pieces of Caldor, once a leading regional chain, which announced last month that it was liquidating and putting its 145 valuable properties on the market.
Kohl's, a retail powerhouse from the Midwest, is competing for 32 of the Caldor stores on Long Island, which would transform the company overnight into a major force in metropolitan New York. The discounter Target, a unit of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, another Midwest retailer that is rapidly building a nationwide presence, is also said to be looking to buy several stores. Wal-Mart has put in a bid for 13 of the Caldor stores (which are generally too small for its standard store).
Also suddenly looking for a bigger piece of the population-rich Northeastern pie are the newly energized regional chains of Bradlees, which just emerged from bankruptcy with a new expansion-minded management team, and Ames, which acquired 150 Hills stores late last year.
Discounters in the region say they are ready to meet the challenge. Bradlees, which has only 8 of its 102 stores in the same markets as Wal-Mart, might justifiably fear an escalation in its conflict with the retailing leviathan. But the chief executive of Bradlees, Peter Thorner, appears sanguine. In markets where they go head to head, he said, "Wal-Mart takes only 6 to 8 percent of sales from our stores and, even then, only in the first year of competition." The minor downside, he said, is that "we lose some lower-margin products."
To meet the challenge, Bradlees has been focusing on more stylish apparel and decorative items for the house, chic design having never been a strong suit for no-nonsense Wal-Mart.
Joe Ettore, chief executive of Ames stores, argues that for him the battle with Wal-Mart is already over. "Out of our 301 Ames stores, 245 are within 10 to 12 miles of a Wal-Mart, and 165 are within 3 miles," he said "At this stage it is not about our future survival. We already co-exist."
Mr. Ettore's strategy, which has been widely hailed by analysts, is to sell to consumers with family incomes below $25,000, just beneath the middle-income customers who are Wal-Mart's prime target.
With Wal-Mart opening more supercenters, grocery stores will also face increased competition. "It is going to put tremendous pressure on grocery stores out there," said Dr. Stone, the University of Iowa economist.
Supermarket executives acknowledge that Wal-Mart is a threat. "They are not benign," said Bob Tobin, president and chief executive of Ahold U.S.A., the subsidiary of Royal Ahold N.V., the Dutch grocery giant that owns the New England-based Stop and Shop chain. "No one who is a student of this industry welcomes Wal-Mart into their area."
In a recent study of Wal-Mart's experience in Texas, Dr. Stone found that three years after a supercenter opened, local grocery stores had lost an average of 17 percent of sales.
Mr. Flickinger, the retailing consultant, argues that the Wal-Mart effect can already be seen in Pennsylvania, where Wal-Mart has 19 supercenters, by far its greatest concentration in the region. Penn Traffic, the long-troubled owner of several chains of grocery stores, has shuttered 15 of its area Bi-Lo stores. "There is no doubt they became a competitive element in many many of our districts," said Marc Jampole, a company spokesman. Still, he declined to blame Wal-Mart. "I don't think their opening was the overriding factor."
Other supermarket executives say that they can go toe-to-toe with Wal-Mart. Mr. Tobin of Ahold notes that in contrast to the Midwest, the Northeast market for groceries has long been both highly saturated and highly competitive. "New England," he said, "is not like a cornfield in Arkansas."
That is a sentiment echoed by Bernard Rogan, a spokesman for Shaw's Supermarkets Inc, a subsidiary of J. Sainsbury P.L.C. He says the supercenters are an old idea -- Wal-Mart opened the first of them 15 years ago -- and will not meet the needs of the region's aging populace, who prefer more intimate shopping.
Shaw's has been shrinking the average size of its stores (down to 58,000 square feet from 65,000) and expanding upscale offerings like fresh seafood and meat, deli foods and ready-to-eat meals, areas where it feels Wal-Mart does not compete well.
Still, the $3 billion in sales that Wal-Mart is expected to reap from its Northeast expansion has got to come from somewhere. No matter how much retailers contend they can compete, Wal-Mart is clearly on the prowl. Supercenters will clearly change the calculus. For example, Ames stands to lose older customers to supercenters because they have pharmacies.
Moreover, Wal-Mart supercenters sell more apparel than their regular stores because people drawn in by the promise of cheap fruit and vegetables find themselves lured by Wal-Mart's store designs to the clothing racks and toy areas.
As a result, Mr. Tobin of Ahold said, "Many stores in the area that thought they had weathered the original hit from Wal-Mart are going to get hit again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers enter Wal-Mart's store in Middle Island, N.Y. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Out of the Heartland"
While Wal-Mart has over 2,800 stores across the country, it is most concentrated in the mid section of the country, and has the lowest saturation on the West Coast and in the Northeast, where the company is now planning a major expansion.
 
Map of United States shows concentration of Wal-Mart stores by state.
(Source: company report, Census Bureau)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (52%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC; AMES DEPARTMENT STORES WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); BURLINGTON FREE PRESS (91%); AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (52%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC; AMES DEPARTMENT STORES US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); VERMONT, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (52%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SALES RETAILERS (92%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HISTORY (77%); SUBURBS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); PRICE CUTTING (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE JOSEPH C PAPA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



357 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Rates on Japan-U.S. Shipments to Increase

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 15

 BODY:
The rates charged on ocean shipments of goods from Japan to the United States will be increased almost 50 percent in May because of steadily rising demand, an official of an organization that sets rates between the two countries said.
The organization, the Japan United States Eastbound Freight Conference, plans to raise rates by $900 per 40-foot container, a standard measure, to about $2,900 for shipments from Japan to the United States West Coast, the official, who declined to be identified, said last week. 
 The rate increase, the second in less than a year, will enable Japan's three biggest shipping companies, Nippon Yusen K.K., Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and Kawasaki Kisen K.K., to make their container operations profitable, analysts said.
Intensified competition with foreign shipping companies had caused rates to fall between 1994 and last year. A spokesman for Mitsui O.S.K. said the company viewed the increase planned for May "as a restoration of fares, not a raise."
Shipments from Japan have increased because the Asian economic crisis has driven down prices of Asian goods, increasing demand.
Container shipments from Asia to the United States rose 24 percent in November from a year earlier, according to Mitsui O.S.K. Demand is not as strong in the opposite direction; shipments from the United States to Asia fell 7.3 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 9104 (TSE) (90%); 9101 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (90%); NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%); NAICS483211 INLAND WATER FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN UNITED STATES EASTBOUND CONFERENCE MITSUI OSK LINES LTD (90%); NIPPON YUSEN KK (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAPAN UNITED STATES EASTBOUND CONFERENCE

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (77%); WEST USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING MARINE SHIPPING (91%); SHIPMENTS (90%); TRENDS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



358 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Airline Travelers Enjoying A Decline in Ticket Prices
When several major airlines raised their fares at the end of last month, they were bucking a longer-term trend of decreasing prices.
The new higher fares, part of the same search for greater profits that has made the airlines determined to keep a lid on employee costs, will primarily affect the business travelers who schedule flights too late to take advantage of most discounts. But in general, all passengers have experienced a drop in what they have paid for flights over the last two years. 

Accusers Look to Microsoft's Future
As the Microsoft antitrust trial nears its end, the Justice Department and the 19 states involved in lawsuits against the company are scrambling to devise restraints on Microsoft that, assuming they are victorious, they could ask a Federal court to impose. Page C7.
 
Protesters Seek Windows Refunds
Saying they had been forced to pay for something they did not intend to use, 100 computer aficionados went to Microsoft offices to request refunds for the Windows operating systems that came with their computers. C6.
 
Savings Limited in French Bank Deal
The acquisition of Paribas by Societe Generale combines the operations of two big French banks, but it may not provide the economies that produce significant cost cuts and enthusiastic investors. C4.
 
Volvo Shops for a U.S. Truck Maker
Volvo, after agreeing last month to sell its car operation to Ford for $6.45 billion, is reported to have had talks with Navistar International of Chicago as it looks in the United States for a truck manufacturer to buy. C11.
 
Terms Announced in Aerospace Deal
Groupe Lagardere, the owner of Matra High Technology, will pay the French Government as much as $345 million for a third of the shares in the new combination of the state-owned Aerospatiale group and the privately owned Matra High Technology, a deal that will create the world's fifth-largest military and aerospace contractor. C11.
 
Some Rig Operators Resist Layoffs
Even as a glut of petroleum shuts down rigs and keeps prices low, some oil service companies are keeping workers on their payrolls to preserve their skills for another day. C2.
 
Euro Glitches for Vending Machines
Few businesses in Europe are as directly affected by the transition of 11 nations to a common currency as operators of vending machines, who face tricky logistics for converting their machines to accepting euro-denominated coins. C4.
 
Japan Set to Resume Buying Bonds
Japan plans to resume buying Government bonds this month and in March, in a bid to stem a rise in long-term interest rates. C6.
 
U.S. Markets Reopen
All financial markets in the United States, as well as banks and Government offices, are scheduled to be open today, after being closed in observance of Presidents' Day. On Friday, stocks gave up most of the gains they had made on Thursday, when the Nasdaq index leaped 96 points in its biggest one-day point gain ever. Technology stocks were the culprits as earnings concerns about Dell Computer sent its shares down $12, to $89.875. The Nasdaq index declined 83.66 points, or 3.5 percent, to 2,321.89. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 88.57 points, or 1 percent, to 9,274.89. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 23.91, or 1.9 percent, to 1,230.13.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks average domestic air fares since 1997. (Source: Air Transport Association)
 
Graph tracks NASDAQ composite since December (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); MMB (PAR) (66%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%); NAV (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (66%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (66%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (54%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); LAGARDERE SCA (66%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (86%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (66%); EURO (65%); CURRENCIES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



359 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: An Investment Strategy for the Subways

 BODY:
New York City's economy could not function without the subways. Yet for hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan's East Side and Queens, "rapid transit" is notoriously slow, infrequent or a half-mile hike away. Even when it's accessible, riding it at rush hour sentences straphangers to levels of overcrowding that the Regional Plan Association describes genteelly as "elbow to rib." The association's remedy is MetroLink, a plan that makes a compelling case for the first major expansion of the subway system since the 1940's.
In the decades ahead, the city could gain hundreds of thousands of jobs. Motivated by a desire to see them materialize and to help people reach them, MetroLink would resuscitate the partially built Second Avenue subway. This line would run from the Bronx south through Manhattan and on to Brooklyn's Atlantic Terminal, where it would connect to the Long Island Rail Road. The Second Avenue line would also intersect underused rail lines, along which four new subway routes would be created to give residents in the Bronx, south Brooklyn and southeastern Queens express service to Manhattan. One route would give midtown and Wall Street business travelers a one-seat ride to Kennedy International Airport. Over all, MetroLink, which calls for 19 miles of new tunneling, would improve service for 250,000 rush-hour riders. 
 MetroLink's unveiling has provoked grousing by state and city officials and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. They do not disparage the vision but assault its $13 billion price tag. Their lukewarm response, however, should not derail efforts to make the transit investments essential to the city's economic prosperity.
New York spent $1.57 billion a year on subway and commuter rail investments from the mid-1980's to mid-1990's. In the same period, Tokyo spent $16.25 billion a year, Paris $1.63 billion and London $1.08 billion. Per capita annually, New York invested $81. That is close to London's $87, much less than Paris's $153 and a fraction of Tokyo's $511. Selecting rapid-transit projects that spur the economy and complement 21st-century residential realities is far more important than new sports stadiums. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EDITORIALS; SUBWAYS URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); AIRPORTS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



360 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Deadheads And Warheads

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
I ran into the Russian reform party leader Grigory Yavlinsky in Europe two weeks ago and asked him a simple question: "Grigory, when America wakes up from its impeachment nightmare, what kind of Russia will we find?"
He thought about that for a moment and said: "You will find a Russia that is even more of a threat to you than the Soviet Union. Frankly, it's more of a threat to its own people. That's what I care about. But it is also more of a threat to you." 
 Mr. Yavlinsky's point is a bit of an overstatement -- but not much. Russia today is a threat because of its weakness, not its strength. It is like a supertanker with a busted hull leaking rancid crude oil all over the place. It is selling weapons to anyone with cash; its most Dr. Strangelove-like scientists are putting themselves out to the highest bidders; it can't afford to properly maintain and safeguard its nuclear arsenals.
So what to do? Well, all the unreconstructed cold warriors around Washington are dying to declare that Russia's experiment with democratization is over and we should go back to treating it like the Soviet Union. There are so many people who miss the cold war, with its absolute-good-vs.-evil quality; they hunger for a return of the Politburo. Frankly, I wish Russia were the Soviet Union again; at least we knew how to deal with it. But it's not, and pretending that it is only fosters the illusion that we can just sit back, build an iron curtain around it and contain Russia's weakness as we once contained its strength. Good luck. Try containing a Russian technical college selling nuclear know-how to Iran out of a Mafia-run Moscow.
Russia is not the Soviet Union. It is just a big Albania -- an experiment in democracy gone wrong, spewing out criminality, weapons and unemployment in all directions. We can't afford to ignore this Russia and we can't effectively contain it. In such a messy situation we need to strip our policy down to the basics, and that means focusing on two things: eliminating Russia's "deadheads and warheads." Russia needs to just start over, and American policy, to the extent that it can, needs to help Moscow do just that.
Russia is slated to hold new parliamentary elections in December. The Russian Parliament, or Duma, today is still dominated by Communist deadheads, who live by the old Leninist motto that the worse things are for Russia, the better they will be for Communists. If we have learned anything from the past four years it is that as long as the Duma is dominated by Communists it will be impossible for any Russian president to put in place the basic institutions to build a real foundation of reform. Russia needs many things, but nothing is possible without a different Duma.
The potential votes are there. As the Russian-American scholar Leon Aron, author of the forthcoming biography "Boris Yeltsin: A Revolutionary Life," points out, in the 1996 presidential elections Mr. Yeltsin beat the Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, by a margin of roughly 4 to 1 among Russian voters under age 25. The Communists dominated the over-60 crowd. The demographics in Russia are on the side of reform.
The West right now should focus on organizing forgiveness and a restructuring of Russia's debts, to take the pressure off the Yevgeny Primakov Government, so it can run a credible budget that might begin to draw back some private investment, stop the bleeding and provide a reasonably stable environment for the December Duma elections. This is the only hope for electing fewer deadheads and more reformers.
On the strategic front, President Clinton should go to Moscow tomorrow and vow that he will not leave until he has worked out an arrangement for implementing the Start 2 and proposed Start 3 nuclear treaties. Forget about a big ABM and missile-defense deal right now. It's too complicated. Russia is ready to reduce from 7,500 nuclear warheads to 1,500, as part of the Start process. Let's do that now, and tell the Russians we'll pay for it all. That's 6,000 warheads that might not end up in Iraq or on the market.
I don't know whether today's Russia is an infant American revolution struggling up from Communism, or a declining Weimar Republic on a slippery slope to Fascism. I do know, though, that we cannot afford to just watch, and we can make ourselves safer no matter which way it goes by focusing on deadhead and warhead elimination. If Mr. Clinton is looking for a national security legacy, and not just a Social Security one, he should hop the next plane to Moscow. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (83%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS TRADE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



361 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON INDICATES SUPPORT TO MEXICO IN BATTLING DRUGS

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, Feb. 15

 BODY:
President Clinton said here today that "Mexico should not be penalized" for its performance in the fight against illicit drugs, leaving little doubt that he plans to recommend the country to Congress this month as a reliable partner in the anti-drug effort.
With President Ernesto Zedillo listening at his side during a speech that capped a 23-hour visit here, Mr. Clinton praised what he characterized as the sincerity and valor of Mexican campaign against drugs and drug-related corruption. 
 "I want to acknowledge Mr. Zedillo's efforts in Mexico's interests to root out this scourge," Mr. Clinton said to the sustained applause of Mexican and American officials. "Much has been said in my country about the extent of the problem we face. But let's not forget that what we know in America comes largely from Mexico's brave efforts to get to the truth and air it. Mexico should not be penalized for having the courage to confront its problems."
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Zedillo presided over an array of discussions among Cabinet members from both Governments on immigration, trade, conservation and other issues.
But because the Clinton Administration has to report to Congress in two weeks on the cooperation by nations viewed as major drug producers and transporters, the drugs theme appeared to dominate the meetings here.
In recent days, some American law-enforcement officials have expressed the view that Mexico's antidrug efforts do not merit a positive report. The annual White House review of Mexico's drug performance, those officials say, has become less a study in what Mexico has accomplished than an exercise in convincing Congress that what has been done is sufficient.
A negative recommendation, called decertification, would set in motion American trade and economic sanctions against Mexico and send relations into a crisis.
In meetings on Sunday evening and today, Mr. Clinton and members of his Cabinet heard aides to Mr. Zedillo, led by Interior Minister Francisco Labastida, summarize recent anti-drug efforts and discuss a recently announced $500 million initiative. It centers on buying radar planes, amphibious boats and other equipment to step up efforts to interdict traffickers and deploying a new national police force. In his own speech to several hundred American and Mexican officials and dignitaries immediately before Mr. Clinton's, Mr. Zedillo called the initiative "the most ambitious strategy in our history of combatting narcotics.
"We've undertaken this fight because we know it's our duty and because we know it's the duty of all nations," Mr. Zedillo said.
Earlier, while meeting Mr. Zedillo at a private hacienda outside Merida, Mr. Clinton was asked by reporters whether he intended to certify the drug cooperation. He did not answer directly, but left little doubt about his intentions as he spoke about the Mexican narcotics industry that smuggles an estimated $15 billion worth of drugs into the United States each year.
"The fundamental question is, would we be better off fighting it together or separately?" Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Clinton; his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and hundreds of aides traveled to this capital of the Yucatan peninsula on Sunday afternoon for his 10th one-on-one encounter with Mr. Zedillo since the Mexican leader was elected in 1994. This was Mr. Clinton's first foreign venture since his acquittal on Friday in his Senate impeachment trial.
If the tone adopted by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Zedillo when talking about drug issues was invariably somber, at other times it was cordial and, at times, exuberantly friendly. The two embraced at the Merida airport after Mr. Clinton's arrival and exchanged jokes before their public addresses today.
This afternoon, Mexican and American officials signed at least six modest agreements on topics like cooperation in fighting forest fires and controlling tuberculosis.
Attorney General Janet Reno and Foreign Minister Rosario Green of Mexico signed a joint statement on controlling border violence, committing both countries to improve cross-border communication when "conflicts, assaults, violence and other threats to public safety occur along the border."
In the statement, the two Governments pledged to develop programs to train police forces to respond to violent incidents without killing civilians.
The American delegation carried with it commitments from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to provide up to $4 billion in loans and loan guarantees over two years to support increased American exports to Mexico.
The fresh money gave officials of both countries the opportunity to praise the North American Free Trade Agreement, whose provisions, they said, have allowed Mexico to surpass Japan as the United States' second-largest export market, after Canada.
An air-transportation agreement signed today will greatly expand air services between the United States and Mexico, officials of both countries said. Currently, American and Mexican airlines have fewer than 100 of the so-called code-sharing arrangements that allow airlines to sell seats under their own name on the flights of another line.
Applications for code sharing on 10,000 routes are pending, and the agreement signed today will allow many of those to be approved, the officials said.
If the meetings were dominated by the question of drug certification, they produced no major new antidrug agreements.
Meeting reporters this afternoon, however, Mr. Clinton's drug control policy adviser, Gen. Barry McCaffrey, held up a copy of a document that he called "Performance Measures of Effectiveness." The document, he said, is a list of "82 variables" that both governments will monitor to insure that both sides are fully cooperating in anti-drug efforts.
A reporter's question suggested that the document might be primarily intended at marshaling support for a drug effort that is flagging on both sides of the border.
General McCaffrey disagreed.
"These are real documents," he said. "This is a real partnership. There are planes, boats, training seminars, intelligence sharing. There is reality behind all this."
American officials estimate that two-thirds of the Colombian cocaine consumed in the United States crosses through Mexico, and Mexico is also a major producer of marijuana, heroine and amphetamines.
Over the last year, the acreages of drug crops eradicated by Mexican soldiers and the tonnages of narcotics seized by the police have declined.
None of the biggest traffickers were arrested, and none of those already jailed whose extradition the United States has requested were handed over.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Clinton and Ernesto Zedillo strolling yesterday at a private hacienda near Merida. Narcotics seemed to dominate their discussions. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Mexico showing location of Merida: The two Presidents met in the provincial capital, Merida. (pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; POLICE; BOATS AND BOATING; SMUGGLING US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); AIRLINES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES); DILLON, SAM BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



362 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: AT TOWN MEETING, REPUBLICANS BEGIN TO RESHAPE IMAGE

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich., Feb. 15

 BODY:
Republican leaders came to this blue-collar Detroit suburb today to hold the first in a series of town hall meetings intended to reshape the party's image and agenda after an unpopular impeachment trial and drum up support for broad tax cuts.
The mostly Republican crowd of about 500 people responded fairly warmly, but their enthusiasm was tempered by worries that tax cuts were not compatible with reducing the national debt. 
 Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, and Michigan's top Republican politicians repeatedly called for a 10 percent reduction in Federal income tax rates to make use of part of the projected $4.35 trillion budget surplus over the next 15 years. They accuse Democrats of both wanting to spend more of the taxpayers' money and wanting to enact more limited tax cuts with narrowly targeted benefits.
"Should it be spent on a myriad of Federal programs or should it be returned to the people?" Mr. Lott asked the crowd here, drawing considerable, but not unanimous, applause.
In fact, dozens of people in the audience did not raise their hands when Senator Spencer Abraham asked who would like to pay less in taxes. A repeated theme in the questions at the Presidents Day event, and in subsequent interviews with members of the audience, was a desire to repay some of the national debt before taxes are reduced.
Mr. Lott and his fellow Republicans, including Gov. John Engler and Senator Abraham, answered questions from 15 members of the audience chosen by the moderator, a local television anchor. Nobody asked about the impeachment trial, although one person briefly complimented Mr. Lott on his handling of the proceedings. The questions focused mainly on economic issues like Social Security, taxes and the national debt.
George Gomez, a 43-year-old middle manager for an electric utility who identified himself as a former supporter of Ross Perot, asked whether his 17-year-old son, Sean, would be shouldered someday with a large national debt. "I'm not so sure I got a really solid answer about how we're going to repay the debt," Mr. Gomez said after the meeting.
Republicans have been heavily criticized this winter for staying in Washington and focusing on the impeachment of President Clinton. Their new strategy, laid out here today by Mr. Lott and Patricia S. Harrison, the co-chairman of the Republican National Committee, is to hold town hall meetings -- a political art form perfected by the President.
Mr. Lott said today that Republican members of Congress would hold 150 such meetings across the nation this year. Ms. Harrison said that the next two would probably be held in Virginia and Pennsylvania, but that the schedule would depend on the availability of governors.
Having been bloodied at the polls for their emphasis on impeachment, Republicans were eager to listen for new ideas today even as they stressed tax cuts and were loath to discuss the impeachment. The Republicans spoke about the trial only when asked after the meeting by reporters, and with evident relief that the proceedings were over.
"This meeting here today is to show we're through with it and we're ready to move on," Mr. Lott said.
Having lashed out at Mr. Clinton after the acquittal on Friday, Mr. Lott struck a more conciliatory tone with reporters this afternoon. He said the President had called him at home on Saturday morning at 9 and they had spoken on subjects ranging from Kosovo to health care.
Mr. Lott said, "He's still the President and every bill that we pass he has to sign or veto."
The Senator predicted that moderate Republicans, conservative Republicans and Democrats would also be able to work closely together in the Senate despite their recent differences in the impeachment trial.
"We've been in a foxhole together, and survived a crucible," Mr. Lott said.
The first town hall meeting was held at the Ukrainian Cultural Center here, partly because the Republican National Committee had used the community center before and partly because Warren is still known as a center of Reagan Democrats, Ms. Harrison said. Reagan Democrats is a term applied to politically conservative, outspokenly patriotic industrial workers who defied their union leaders in the 1980's by supporting Presidents Reagan and Bush in large numbers, allowing the Republicans to carry Michigan, always a fiercely contested state.
But these workers tended to back President Clinton in the 1992 and 1996 elections. Warren, which has 138,000 residents, is the heart of Macomb County, which lies on Detroit's northeast border and is one of the first places where Reagan Democrats emerged as a political force.
Both of Macomb County's Congressmen are perennially vulnerable Democrats. Representative Sander M. Levin, who represents the part of Warren where today's meeting was held, has been near the top of Republicans' lists of targets ever since his district was redrawn after the 1990 elections, and has been re-elected each time with only 53 percent to 57 percent of the vote despite strong efforts by unions on his behalf. Representative David E. Bonior, the House minority whip, represents the rest of Macomb County and won only 53 percent of the vote last November.
Mr. Lott and the other Republicans spoke in front of a huge canvas painted with a scene of a pine-fringed lake and emblazoned with the words, "Listening to America. Tax Cuts for Everyone." Dan Senor, a spokesman for Senator Abraham, said that half the tickets for today's event were distributed by local Republican officials and the other half were given to people who called after hearing about the meeting on local television. Those who called were given tickets regardless of their political affiliation, Mr. Senor said.
Alphonse Singer, a 75-year-old retired unionized autoworker and former Democrat, said before the meeting that the first economic priority should be paying down the national debt. Ronald W. Pruss, 60, a precinct delegate of the Michigan Republican Party and a Chevrolet retiree, agreed in a separate interview after the meeting, although he also liked tax cuts.
But Betty Norlin, another precinct delegate and a retired 68-year-old manager of a health food company, said that tax cuts were needed now.
While Mr. Lott and his fellow Republicans tried today to present an image of united support for reducing income tax rates, Republicans are deeply divided on tax policy. They differ over whether to pursue an immediate 10 percent reduction in tax rates, or whether to implement tax cuts gradually as the projected budget surplus grows.
Representative Fred Upton, the senior Republican in Michigan's Congressional delegation, was not here today, and said in a telephone interview from his district in western Michigan that he believed that there were not enough votes in Congress to approve lower income tax rates. Mr. Upton said that he would push for targeted tax cuts instead, notably reducing the marriage penalty.
Mr. Lott spoke strongly in favor of a 10 percent tax cut. "The great thing is, it doesn't pick winners and losers, it's good for everyone," he said at the town hall meeting.
But in a brief interview afterward, Mr. Lott voiced a willingness to compromise on the amount of any reduction, saying that a slightly smaller cut could be paired with a few targeted tax cuts, notably an elimination of estate taxes. "I'm not dug in or locked into this number or that number -- maybe it should be 8.7 percent," he said.
President Clinton has proposed that 62 percent of the projected $4.35 trillion in Federal surpluses over the next 15 years should be devoted to putting Social Security on a more firm financial footing, while the rest should be spent on a variety of Federal programs and targeted tax cuts. Mr. Lott repeated today his general support for devoting 62 percent to Social Security, which would reduce the need for future Federal borrowing and thereby reduce the national debt. But Mr. Lott said that he strongly disagreed with the President on how to use the remaining 38 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Republicans led by Senator Trent Lott held a meeting yesterday in Warren, Mich. In the audience, Connie Murry-Cole raised a question. (Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times)(pg. A14); In a Republican drive to promote a 10 percent tax cut, Senator Trent Lott led a town-hall-style meeting yesterday in Warren, Mich. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); INCOME TAX (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (50%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; LOTT, TRENT (SEN); ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEN); ENGLER, JOHN (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TRENT LOTT (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



363 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: French Chief Will Press Plan on Iraq With Clinton

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 15

 BODY:
President Jacques Chirac of France hopes to make headway with President Clinton this week on French proposals to lift the oil embargo against Iraq if it will allow international inspections of its weapons programs to resume, he said today.
"President Saddam Hussein, in my eyes, is responsible for all the miseries of the Iraqi people," Mr. Chirac told American correspondents here in advance of his planned meeting with Mr. Clinton in Washington on Friday. But he added, "The more the population suffers, the more it rallies to Saddam Hussein and strengthens him." 
France opposed the British and American bombing of Iraq late last year for its refusal to cooperate with United Nations arms inspections. It hopes to get the United Nations Security Council to approve a new plan to lift restrictions on the amount of oil Iraq can sell abroad if its leadership will agree to a new system of permanent monitoring of sites that could be used to make or store weapons of mass destruction.
As French officials explain the proposal, sophisticated outside monitoring of what Iraq does with the revenues from oil sales, plus television and satellite monitoring of the weapons sites, would provide effective warning of any new attempts to buy or make components for nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
In any case, Mr. Chirac and others say, any controls would be more effective than none -- and now there are none inside Iraq.
The United States has rejected lifting the embargo. Continuing international pressure could encourage Iraqi opposition groups in exile or inside the country to rise up and overthrow President Saddam Hussein, the United States contends, but as Mr. Chirac sees it, that is just wishful thinking.
"Getting rid of Saddam Hussein is easily said, but very difficult to do," he said. But if the international community made clear that it would let Iraq import more medicine, food and other necessities if Mr. Hussein agreed to a new system of arms controls, the Baghdad Government might feel more pressure to go along with them, Mr. Chirac contended.
Both French and American military officials fear that the longer the current impasse continues, with American and British warplanes bombing Iraqi air defense sites almost daily, the greater the risk that eventually an American plane could be shot down and the crew lost or taken prisoner, bringing on a new international diplomatic crisis.
In Washington today, James Foley, a spokesman for the State Department, said department officials had not yet seen the text of Mr. Chirac's remarks, and thus were unable to address them specifically.
He restated the United States view that Iraq must comply with Security Council resolutions before the embargo can be lifted.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; FRANCE; UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



364 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: A Discount Airline Is in Peril Again;
Money Troubles and Passenger Complaints Mount for Kiwi

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Maybe Kiwi International Air Lines is not a phoenix, after all.
Just two years ago, the airline, based in Newark, seemed to be rising out of the ashes of bankruptcy, rehiring workers and resuming its low-cost flights to Florida and Puerto Rico, flights that have been popular with thousands of New Yorkers. 
 But today, the airline is in financial peril again. Unpaid bills are piling up, passengers are complaining about poor service, once-loyal employees are becoming increasingly disgruntled, and the airline is in danger of having two of its five working jets repossessed.
Some days, Kiwi just seems jinxed. Late Saturday night, passengers on a charter flight to Cancun, which had already been delayed for 12 hours because of mechanical problems on one plane, boarded another -- whose right wheel promptly fell into a sinkhole that opened in the tarmac at Newark International Airport. A third plane was called in, bouncing passengers bound for Florida.
The company says its troubles are temporary, just one more chapter in its strange and colorful history. That history began in 1992, when its founders -- former pilots from several bankrupt airlines -- named it after the flightless bird of New Zealand. Once owned by its employees, the airline now is owned and run by a Baltimore surgeon who took control with the help of some denizens of the shady side of Wall Street.
A few years ago, Kiwi was widely regarded as the new wave in the airline industry. Customers raved about Kiwi's inexpensive flights -- $99 to Orlando, a fraction of what the big airlines charged -- and its great service. And at a time when the Northeastern economy was weak and other airlines were going broke, workers jumped at the chance to get a job at Kiwi, and New Jersey officials were glad to guarantee its loans.
Today, the situation is far different. Newark is one of the busiest airports in the world, and Kiwi's 550 employees there account for just a fraction of the airport's 18,000 jobs. Strong, low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines are bringing competition -- and lower air fares -- to the region. Many airlines have just reported one of their best years and are vying to hire people.
Kiwi, meanwhile, is struggling.
The company insists that things are not as bad as they may appear. The number of passengers rose more than 20 percent last month, compared with the previous year. Financially, "things are tight, but distressed, no," said Robert B. Kulat, a Kiwi spokesman. "What for a lot of companies would be a cash crunch, for us is a way of life, unfortunately."
Charles C. Edwards, the doctor who owns the airline and is running it while continuing to do spinal surgery in Baltimore, declined to be interviewed; Mr. Kulat said the doctor planned to raise several million dollars from private investors in the next few weeks.
But outsiders, including former employees, suppliers and lawyers who worked on its bankruptcy case, are not so sure that the airline can recover this time. Its previous efforts to raise cash from sources other than Dr. Edwards have failed, and some of its most experienced senior managers have left.
"For the employees, I truly hope Dr. Edwards can find a long-term partner with $5 or $10 million," said Jerry Murphy, who resigned as president in November after a series of disagreements with the doctor. "The company clearly needs an infusion of cash."
Others are even gloomier. "I am personally skeptical about Kiwi's abilities and prospects -- this is a critical month for them," said Jeff J. Friedman, a lawyer who represents Fly Finance, which is considering repossessing the two planes it leased to Kiwi. After a court battle over rental payments, Kiwi agreed to buy the planes by Jan. 31, but did not. Mr. Kulat said Kiwi had received an extension on its plane leases; Mr. Friedman said his client had not decided what to do about them.
The planes are far from Kiwi's only problem. On Feb. 4, the management of Logan International Airport in Boston wrote the company, saying that if Kiwi did not pay money it owed the airport, it would not be allowed to fly into or out of Logan after Feb. 22. Mr. Kulat, while admitting that Kiwi owed the airport an undisclosed amount of money, said the company had made the decision to stop flying its Boston route.
At Newark, where most of Kiwi's flights originate and where most of its 600 employees work, the company is current on its payments. But the Transport Workers Union and Kiwi are now in mediation over the flight attendants' contract, said Richard Boehm, president of Local 504 in Queens. Many of the most experienced flight attendants are leaving for jobs at other airlines, he said, adding that he saw an unusual amount of frustration and alienation among Kiwi workers.
The biggest complaint among the flight attendants is the same one passengers have: the airline's erratic schedule. In the last year, Kiwi has added and dropped flights to Detroit, Minneapolis, Flint, Mich., and Niagara Falls, N.Y. It has pulled out of Chicago and, now, Boston.
Even when the airline was supposed to be flying to a given destination, like Niagara Falls, it often did not. "They always wanted to divert planes to other routes, said John R. Simon, executive director of the Niagara County Industrial Development Agency, "and we had customers here waiting to go to New York who were told the plane wasn't here and wasn't coming."
Kiwi passengers' complaints to the Federal Department of Transportation more than doubled last year, to 209; those involving cancellations and delays zoomed from 16, to 86, according to department statistics. These scheduling problems have drawn the attention of the agency's regulators, who in December met with Dr. Edwards to discuss the airline's financial fitness, a meeting first reported in The Newark Star-Ledger. Safety was not an issue in these discussions, and the Federal Aviation Administration has not increased its safety inspections. "We are aware of their economic status and we will monitor that," said Arlene Salac, an F.A.A. spokeswoman.
Kiwi has never had a serious accident, but some of its early problems stemmed from run-ins with the F.A.A. In 1994, the agency grounded the airline, complaining that it did not have adequate records of its pilots' training. In June 1996, the airline stopped flying 4 of its 15 jets because the F.A.A. said it did not have enough properly trained pilots.
Three months later, the airline filed for bankruptcy protection. Two weeks after that, it ran out of money and stopped flying.
The airline's executives frantically searched for cash to get its planes back in the air. Since Kiwi leased practically everything, including the seats inside the planes, it did not have much value unless it was moving passengers around and getting their money. Soon, a savior seemed to appear in the form of Joe Logan Jr., president of a Florida company, Wasatch International. But when push came to shove, he could not come up with the $5 million he had promised. A month later, Mr. Logan showed up with Dr. Edwards.
Dr. Edwards did have money -- the ability to borrow up to $20 million, based on his large real estate holdings. What he did not have was any experience at all in running an airline -- or much information, apparently, about his new business partners.
According to a deposition of Dr. Edwards filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Newark, he did not realize when he went into business with Wasatch, accepted stock in the company and went on its board, that it was controlled by a South African with a history of clashes with securities regulators, who was deported from the United States after pleading guilty to criminal securities fraud.
Lawyers for Kiwi employees and creditors quickly began to have doubts about Mr. Logan, according to other court filings. They thought it was improper for Mr. Logan to have an office at Kiwi's executive suite, were concerned that he seemed to be flying free on Kiwi's planes and were worried about what seemed to be going on with Wasatch stock. The shares, which had soared from 50 cents, to $6, shortly before Kiwi's bankruptcy, later began drifting down in very heavy trading.
Mr. Logan did not return repeated phone calls seeking comment. But a Federal lawsuit filed in Texas against Wasatch and Mr. Logan contends that investors were duped into buying shares of Wasatch because of the relationship it said it had with Kiwi.
Some of the investors, it said, bought their stock directly from Mr. Logan. John Courtade, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, said Mr. Logan's lawyers have withdrawn from the case.
Kiwi's management eventually evicted Mr. Logan from their office, accusing him, among other things, of reading other people's mail, according to court filings. Dr. Edwards said that Wasatch would no longer be his partner and that he would treat its roughly $1 million investment as a loan.
Ultimately, Dr. Edwards's deal with Kiwi proved to be a Faustian bargain, at least in the view of the company's creditors. The doctor's $10 million of loans kept the airline flying but made it unlikely that anyone else would be willing to buy the company.. In fact, nobody else put in a bid when the doctor decided to buy Kiwi's assets for a couple of million dollars, plus the money he had already lent the company.
The employees who had once owned the company ended up with nothing. Even those who had what are called secured claims -- backed by collateral -- got less than they were owed.
Since then, Kiwi's money-raising efforts have not gone far. A possible loan from Niagara County was abandoned. Three potential mergers, including one with another company run by Mr. Logan, fell apart after they were announced.
Dr. Edwards has put about $21 million into Kiwi, Mr. Kulat said. But even he appears to be getting strapped. Last summer, the township of Cherry Hill, N.J., evacuated an apartment complex that the doctor owns, saying it was full of vermin and unfit for human habitation. Now, officials there are trying to condemn the property, a move that Dr. Edwards is opposing, said Susan Bass Levin, Cherry Hill's Mayor.
When Dr. Edwards met with town officials, "he said he had intended to fix the building up, but instead all his money was going into Kiwi Air Lines, and didn't we understand that was a bigger cause," Ms. Levin said. "It wasn't persuasive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kiwi aircraft at Newark International Airport on a day earlier this month when a morning flight to Orlando was canceled. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Dr. Charles C. Edwards, a surgeon, owns Kiwi International Air Lines. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. B1); A counter for Kiwi airline at Newark International Airport. Complaints about the airline have been rising. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES NEW YORK JETS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; LABOR; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (95%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); REPOSSESSION (77%); BIRDS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); 

PERSON: EDWARDS, CHARLES C (DR) ROBERT B KULAT (61%); CHARLES C EDWARDS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



365 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: In Forecasting Their Emotions, Most People Flunk Out

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
Everyone is a forecaster, says Dr. Daniel Gilbert, a psychologist at Harvard University, trafficking not in the day-to-day weather, but in individual emotional barometers.
And in making decisions, any decisions, people rely on their individual forecasts to determine how their choices will make them feel in the future, and then use those forecasts to guide their choices. 
 But, like some weather forecasts, it appears those predictions are often wrong, according to an array of data from a small but growing field of psychology.
Beginning a recent scientific paper in The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Dr. Gilbert wrote: "Imagine that one morning your telephone rings and you find yourself talking to the King of Sweden, who informs you in surprisingly good English that you have been selected as this year's recipient of a Nobel Prize. How would you feel and how long would you feel that way?"
Then, he continued: "Now imagine that the telephone call is from your college president, who regrets to inform you (in surprisingly good English) that the Board of Regents has dissolved your department, revoked your appointment and stored your books in little cardboard boxes in the hallway. How would you feel and how long would you feel that way?"
In the second instance, Dr. Gilbert wrote, "Losing one's livelihood has all the hallmarks of a major catastrophe, and most people would expect this news to have an enduring negative impact on their emotional lives."
But, he added, "Such expectations are often important and often wrong."
Dr. Gilbert studied more than 100 college professors before and after they found out whether they had achieved tenure. He found that the educators expected to be quite happy if chosen, and quite unhappy if not. But those predictions were wrong. Those who got tenure were happy, but not as happy as they themselves had predicted. And those who were denied tenure did not become very unhappy.
There is a now a long list of such experiments.
Lottery winners, for example, were interviewed several times after they won big jackpots (averaging almost $500,000). While people expected to feel considerably happier for a long time, the winners, after a very brief euphoria, in fact found their level of happiness settling quickly back to average.
Students, asked whether they would be happier going to school in California or in a colder climate, predicted they would be happier in California, both because of the climate, and over all. In fact, students were equally happy in different parts of the country, despite the climate.
And people who were tested for Huntington's disease or H.I.V. infection expected to be devastated if the news was bad, but most often they were not; in fact, those who remained most anxious were those who decided not to be tested or, in the case of testing for Huntington's, were not to be told their test results.
People are aware that they are bad at some predictions. Dr. George Loewenstein of the Center for the Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Carnegie Mellon University offered some well-known examples of the results of poor forecasting: "Besides marrying too young, there is shopping for groceries on an empty stomach; professions of love during moments of lust; believing you can 'eat just one chip.' "
There is a pattern to the way people get predictions wrong, and understanding the pattern may be useful, researchers say.
For example, people are most often right when they describe what makes them feel good or bad, but are often wrong when asked to predict how strongly they will feel that way, and how long the feeling will last.
The problem comes with the nature of feelings, caused by strong chemical events in the brain that occur after an experience. The feeling itself quickly dies, as the mind shifts attention and the surge of chemicals subsides. When the event is recalled later, the rush of the feeling recurs, but to a lesser degree.
Dr. Gilbert points out that this is not just the gradual lessening of vividness, but that the mind has a number of active processes that alter the memory and blunt the feeling on purpose. Beginning almost immediately, we obscure the irritating or humiliating in the same way an oyster covers a grain of sand with a layer of smooth pearl.
Studies have shown that even severe life events have a negative impact on people's sense of well-being and satisfaction for no more than three months, after which their feelings at least go back to normal.
"Most people are reasonably happy most of the time, and most events do little to change that for long," Dr. Gilbert said.
He quotes Sir Thomas Browne, a 17th-century writer, who said: "I am the happiest man alive. I have that in me that can convert poverty into riches, adversity into prosperity, and I am more invulnerable than Achilles; fortune hath not one place to hit me."
Dr. Gilbert said that whatever that thing was that Browne claimed to have, "most ordinary people seem to have it, too."
"In science, literature and folklore," Dr. Gilbert said, "people are famous for making the best of bad situations, remembering their successes and overlooking their excesses, trumpeting their triumphs and excusing their mistakes. Psychologists from Freud to Festinger have described the artful methods by which the human mind ignores, augments, transforms and rearranges information in its unending battle" against the bad feelings produced by the world and things in it.
One primary reason people do not get predictions right about their own future feelings and tastes is that people forget these powers, this "immune system" that blunts bad feeling and helps them adjust.
In experiments, the researchers found that when people tried to predict future feelings, they most often failed to take into account their capacity to discount bad events. But as soon as the bad events occurred, they made full use of those powers.
In one example, students were given personality ratings by two methods -- a rating by computerized test and a rating by a panel of qualified and experienced psychologists. They said they expected that they would feel equally bad if given the lowest rating by either method. But when the scores came in, within seconds, those given the lowest rating by computer felt better and commented on the unreliability of the computer method.
Dr. Daniel Kahneman of Princeton University said that different areas of scholarship, and economics in particular, built their descriptions of behavior on the assumptions that people were both rational in making choices and were able to predict how they would feel in the future.
The most obvious import of the new research came when people were asked to predict their future states and to make decisions based on those predictions -- in giving informed consent to become part of medical experiments, or in signing directives about what medical treatment they might want near death.
Peter Ditto, a psychologist at the University of California at Irvine who has studied the matter, pointed out that people changed their minds about these issues. In his studies, he said, "Even people who say they 'definitely want' or 'definitely don't want' treatment often change their wishes."
The researchers also noted that in trying to devise treatment for criminals, research of the past made the mistake of assuming that criminals' choices to commit crimes were rational. In fact, Dr. Loewenstein reported, a large part of criminal decision-making was emotional and criminals were unable to predict that effectively ahead of time.
When ordinary students were asked how likely they were to commit certain sexual acts, their predictions changed radically if they were sexually aroused prior to having the questions asked. Their own sexual aggressiveness changed and when sexually aroused the students "were more likely to imagine that they would behave in a sexually forceful manner on a date." What is more, the students did not expect this difference to occur.
Dr. Kahneman of Princeton pointed out that new findings across the field challenged the economic theories on which government and commercial policies were made. If people do not really predict what is good even for themselves, then it becomes important to measure the consequences of social and political decisions, to measure how much a policy improves citizens' well-being.
He first wrote about the utility of doubting one's own predictive powers about eight years ago, he said, after having learned what he called the "squeaking door" lesson.
"Twenty years ago, my wife and I moved, and we quarreled about bedroom curtains," Dr. Kahneman said in a telephone interview. She had curtains that he thought were "truly dreadful." (They were brown with vertical stripes.)
The fight escalated as each became more entrenched, until finally it became a question of who would yield and why. He knew he did not like the curtains, but he asked himself if he would always feel that way. "Would they remain forever like a squeaking door that you never get used to?" he said. "I decided that if I would always dislike them, I shouldn't yield. But if I could get used to them, I should probably yield."
He did yield, and discovered later that not only had he become used to the curtains, but he had actually come to like them. They had the opposite experience buying a house, he said, when they had to decide whether to pay much more for a water view. If they got used to it and ended up paying little attention, it was not worth the money.
"We have never gotten used to it," he said. "The pleasure we get from the view is unending. It was worth it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the inaccuracy of people's predictions about their emotions misstated the location of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, where Dr. George Loewenstein, a researcher on the topic, held a fellowship. It is in Stanford, Calif., not at Carnegie Mellon University, where he is a professor of psychology.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); SWEDEN (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); SWEDEN (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: EMOTIONS; FORECASTS; PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; RESEARCH PSYCHOLOGY (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WEATHER (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); LOTTERIES (61%); GENETIC DISEASES (60%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J DANIEL GILBERT (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



366 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 4697 words

HEADLINE: How U.S. Wooed Asia To Let Cash Flow In

SERIES: GLOBAL CONTAGION: A Narrative -- Second of four articles.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF with DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
They were serious men, prosperous and pinstriped, and they derided "the politics of class warfare" as they conducted a job interview with the young Governor from Arkansas.
It was steak dinner in a private room of the "21" Club in June 1991, and the top Democratic executives on Wall Street were gathered at a round table to hold one of a series of meetings with Presidential aspirants in what an organizer called "an elegant cattle show." They were questioning a man with a meager salary but a silver tongue, and this was another show in which Gov. Bill Clinton charmed his way to a blue ribbon by impressing the executives with his willingness to embrace free trade and free markets. 
 "What was discussed was the need for the Democratic Party to have a new and much more forward-looking economic policy," Roger Altman, a leading investment banker and an organizer of the evening, recalled recently. "The Democratic Party needed to move into a new economic world."
Aides describe that evening as an important step in the business education of Mr. Clinton, who came to repeat and amplify the themes -- especially the need to move away from protectionism and push for more open markets in Asia and all over the world.
It was also the time that Mr. Clinton first met Robert E. Rubin, then the head of Goldman Sachs & Company, and although the initial encounter was cool, the two men eventually forged a close partnership that has left an enormous imprint on the global economy.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Rubin, who became his Treasury Secretary in 1995, took the American passion for free trade and carried it further to press for freer movement of capital. Along the way they pushed harder to win opportunities for American banks, brokerages and insurance companies.
This drive for free movement of capital as well as goods was one factor in the long American-led boom in financial markets around the globe. Yet, in retrospect, Washington's policies also fostered vulnerabilities that are an underlying cause of the economic crisis that began in Thailand in July 1997, rippled through Asia and Russia, and is now shaking Brazil and Latin America.
Countries like Thailand and Russia and Brazil are in trouble today largely for internal reasons, including poor banking practices and speculation that soared out of control. But some economists also say that if those countries had weak foundations, it is partly because Washington helped supply the blueprints.
They argue that the Clinton Administration pushed too hard for financial liberalization and freer capital flows, allowing foreign money to stream into these countries and local money to move out. In many cases, foreign countries were happy to open up in this way because they thought it was the best road to economic development, but a wealth of evidence has shown that overhasty liberalization can lead to banking chaos and financial crises.
Even some former Administration officials acknowledge that they went too far. Mickey Kantor, the former trade representative and Commerce Secretary, now says that the United States was insufficiently aware of the kind of chaos that financial liberalization could provoke.
"It would be a legitimate criticism to say that we should have been more nuanced, more foresighted that this could happen," he said. Speaking of the risks of financial liberalization without modern banking and legal systems, he compared them to "building a skyscraper with no foundation."
Although the Clinton Administration always talked about financial liberalization as the best thing for other countries, it is also clear that it pushed for free capital flows in part because this was what its supporters in the banking industry wanted.
"Our financial services industry wanted into these markets," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the former chairwoman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and later head of the National Economic Council.
Ms. Tyson says she disagreed to some extent with the push and was concerned about "a tendency to do this as a blanket approach, regardless of the size of a country or the development of a country." Free capital flows, she worried, could overwhelm small countries or those with weak banking and legal systems, leading to a "run on a country."
This is not to say that American officials are primarily to blame for the crisis. Responsibility can be assigned all around: not only to Washington policy makers, but also to the officials and bankers in emerging-market countries who created the mess; to Western bankers and investors who blindly handed them money; to Western officials who hailed free capital flows and neglected to make them safer; to Western scholars and journalists who wrote paeans to emerging markets and the "Asian Century" -- and to the people who planned an empty city named Muang Thong Thani.
 
High-Rise Ghost Town
Muang Thong Thani rises up above barren fields on the edge of Bangkok, Thailand. It is a dazzling complex of two dozen huge gray-white buildings soaring nearly 30 stories high, and surrounded by streets lined with shops, town houses and detached homes. Walk closer and it feels eerie, for it is a ghost city.
Along one street of 100 houses, the windows are mere holes in the walls, and yards have weeds that grow as high as a person.
Muang Thong Thani was built during Thailand's boom as a product of free capital flows and financial liberalization. It was the great dream of Anant Kanjanapas.
One of 11 children born to an ethnic Chinese business tycoon in Thailand, Mr. Anant grew up with the wealth that his family had acquired through developing property and selling watches in Asia.
The family's Bangkok Land company began acquiring parcels of property near the airport, and they broke ground in 1990 on a megaproject to build a privately owned satellite city for Bangkok. Muang Thong Thani was to have a population of 700,000, bigger than Boston's.
"We have all intentions to develop Muang Thong Thani as a city, a complete city run by private-sector people," Mr. Anant said. "It was not a stroke of genius. It was logic."
The project was greeted enthusiastically, as all proposals were in the early 1990's, and Bangkok Land issued shares on the Thai Stock Exchange in 1992 to raise money. Its shares were hot, picked up by J. Mark Mobius, the emerging-markets guru, and by funds like the Thai International Fund and the Thai Euro Fund, which between them bought more than one million shares of Bangkok Land.
In Illinois, the state pension fund bought shares in both the Thai International Fund and the Thai Euro Fund, and that made Mary Jo Paoni, a secretary in Cantrall, Ill., a roundabout owner of a tiny part of Bangkok Land and Muang Thong Thani. Mrs. Paoni knew nothing of this, of course, and disapproves of the giddy investment sprees in Asia.
"When things are tough," she said, "you don't start spending like a drunken sailor. There are some people who take risks, but not us."
Bangkok Land also borrowed $2.4 billion from banks domestic and foreign. In that sense, some minute fraction of Mrs. Paoni's money might also have been channeled to the company as loans. Her money market account at A. G. Edwards went to buy commercial paper of major banks, and her pension fund also held stock in Bangkok Bank, which lent to Bangkok Land -- an illustration of the way in which globalization now gives just about everybody some tiny financial stake in everybody else.
 
Cash Controls Eased
Free movement of capital is nothing new, for it was the norm during most of Western history. At the beginning of this century, anyone could move money across borders without difficulty.
The Great Depression changed all that. Governments moved to control capital so as to avoid what they saw as the chaos of capital rushing out of countries and setting off financial crises.
A result was that most countries of the world (including the United States in the 1960's) limited the right of companies and citizens to buy foreign securities or invest overseas. People were often allowed to buy only small amounts of foreign currency.
Then, as memories of the Depression faded, the tide shifted again in the 1970's and '80's. Starting in the United States and Europe, it became fashionable to let money move freely, and the Reagan Administration began to push for free capital flows in other countries.
"Our task is to knock down barriers to trade and foreign investment and the free movement of capital," Ronald Reagan declared in 1985. George Bush described his Latin America program, the Enterprise for Americas Initiative, as a commitment to "free markets and to the free flow of capital, central to achieving economic growth and lasting prosperity."
The Clinton Administration inherited that agenda and amplified it. Previous administrations had pushed for financial liberalization principally in Japan, but under President Clinton it became a worldwide effort directed at all kinds of countries, even smaller ones much less able to absorb it than Japan.
"We pushed full steam ahead on all areas of liberalization, including financial," recalled Jeffrey E. Garten, a former senior Commerce Department official who is now dean of the Yale School of Management. "I never went on a trip when my brief didn't include either advice or congratulations on liberalization."
This push for financial liberalization reflected President Clinton's growing enthusiasm for markets and his desire to make the economy a centerpiece of his foreign policy. He created the National Economic Council as a counterpart to the National Security Council, and asked Mr. Rubin to be its first head. More broadly, this push was part of a global ideological shift in favor of free markets, as well as an increasing enthusiasm among developing countries themselves for lifting restrictions on the flow of money.
"We were convinced we were moving with the stream," Mr. Garten said, "and that our job was to make the stream move faster."
"Wall Street was delighted that the broad trade agenda now included financial services," he added.
Mr. Garten said he could not recall hearing any doubts expressed about the policy, either within the Administration or among officials overseas. Referring to Mr. Rubin, Mr. Kantor and the late Commerce Secretary Ron Brown, Mr. Garten said, "There wasn't a fiber in those three bodies -- or in mine -- that didn't want to press as a matter of policy for more open markets wherever you could make it happen."
"It's easy to see in retrospect that we probably pushed too far, too fast," he said, adding, "In retrospect, we overshot, and in retrospect there was a certain degree of arrogance."
The push for financial liberalization was directed at Asia in particular, largely because it was seen as a potential gold mine for American banks and brokerages. Neither Mr. Clinton nor Mr. Rubin had much experience in Asia -- Mr. Clinton as Governor had led trade delegations to promote Arkansas chickens and rice, and Mr. Rubin had done business in Japan for Goldman Sachs. But Mr. Clinton as President has worked hard to strengthen American ties with Asia, as well as his own.
The idea was to press Asia to ease its barriers to American goods and financial services, helping Fidelity sell mutual funds, Citibank sell checking accounts and American International Group sell insurance. Mr. Clinton's links to Asia caused embarrassment after they led to the campaign finance scandals of 1996, but fundamentally they reflected an appetite for business opportunities in Asian countries that had changed, as Mr. Clinton once put it, "from dominoes to dynamos."
His Cabinet approved a "big emerging markets" plan to identify 10 rising economic powers and push relentlessly to win business for American companies there. Under Mr. Brown, the Commerce Department even built what it called a war room, where computers tracked big contracts, and everyone from the C.I.A. to ambassadors to the President himself was called upon to help land deals.
The stakes could be huge. Japan had been the first target of pressure for financial liberalization, even under the Reagan Administration, and these days it is finally engaged in what it calls a "big bang" opening of its capital markets. The upshot is that American institutions are swarming into Tokyo and finally have a chance to manage a portion of the $10 trillion in Japanese personal savings. And when a big Japanese brokerage, Yamaichi Securities, collapsed 15 months ago, Merrill Lynch took over many of the branches -- an acquisition that would have been unthinkable just a few years earlier.
 
Real Estate Visionary
Freer flow of money pumped up the Thai economy, and with the help of foreign cash Mr. Anant began to realize his dream. Muang Thong Thani gradually emerged from the surrounding fields, with its skyscrapers focused on a business district called Bond Street.
Mr. Anant, who is expert at playing official connections, was able to coax the Government into approving a convenient expressway exit, which made the area very accessible. He also managed to persuade the Thai Defense Department to move its headquarters and staff residences to Muang Thong Thani.
Critics cried foul, but Mr. Anant denies wrongdoing. During a 90-minute interview he was edgy, and at one point he seemed about to stalk out of the room. But then he calmed down and continued his spin.
"It makes sense to do this," he said. "But you need a lot of determination."
A result is that since the crash, Muang Thong Thani has everything but inhabitants. Bond Street is a mile-and-a-quarter strip of modern, window-lined buildings, but aside from a handful of colorful storefronts -- a bank, a restaurant, a pharmacy and a few others -- they are empty.
In the pharmacy at 11 Bond Street, Pornsawan Rakthanyakarn is fighting the ghostliness. A big Thai woman with a bouffant hair style, a brown flowered print dress and a diamond ring as large as her knuckle, she sits by the cash register, waiting for customers to come in and buy her Vaseline Intensive Care Lotion and Pond's Cold Cream.
Mrs. Pornsawan, a jeweler who hit it rich during Thailand's boom, heard about Muang Thong Thani on the grapevine. She inquired from the official sales agent and was told demand was so strong that she would have to pay a $27,000 surcharge per parcel of land.
That convinced her, and she ended up paying nearly $500,000 for a house and for the building that includes her shop.
"I'm upset with the salespeople here who cheated me," she said morosely. And she is trying to adjust. Originally she had planned to open a jewelry store, but when the economy crashed her son suggested that a pharmacy might bring more business. And she tries to raise money in other ways.
"Would you like to buy my diamond ring?" she asked hopefully. She held it out and suggested, "Five million baht?" That is about $137,000, more than a typical visitor might be expected to have on hand, but Mrs. Pornsawan pressed her case.
"That's a very good price!" she exclaimed.
The command center for free markets is the third floor of the United States Treasury, where Mr. Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, share a suite facing the Washington Monument. Mr. Rubin presides in a spacious office decorated with modern art and family photos -- just about all he sees of his family on weekdays, since his wife works in New York and he joins her each weekend.
At the other end of the suite is Mr. Summers's office, covered with photos of his son and twin daughters, and equipped with a small refrigerator stuffed with Diet Cokes. The two men are the closest of partners, and when Mr. Rubin is puzzled about something, he sometimes wanders over in his stocking feet to consult with Mr. Summers.
Historically Treasury has tended to stake out free-market positions, but Mr. Rubin stepped up the pace even further, for he showed an intuitive tilt toward the market based on his three decades as an investment banker.
"Bob comes from this very Wall Street view," said a senior Administration official. "He reflects that experience."
 
The 2 at Treasury
 Within the Clinton Administration, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers won increasing influence because of their skill at marrying international finance and foreign policy. Mr. Summers had been a prominent economics professor at Harvard, and Mr. Rubin had made a fortune on Wall Street, enabling him to take off on vacations with a fly-fishing rod that, as an aide joked, "probably costs more than your house."
For the most part, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers were not forcing financial liberalization down unwilling throats. Rather, Washington was leading more than pushing. The United States pressed for capital liberalization, recalled a former top Thai official, but he added that it was like pushing on an open door.
Within the Administration, there were occasional arguments about the virtues of free capital flows. Academic economists like Ms. Tyson and Joseph Stiglitz, former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, sometimes argued that Treasury was too dogmatic in insisting upon free flows.
One day in 1995, the National Economic Council called an interagency meeting in the ornate, high-ceilinged rooms of the Old Executive Office Building, next to the White House. Negotiations were under way with Chile over a free-trade agreement, and the topic of the meeting was whether as a condition of the deal the United States should force Chile to drop an innovative system that amounts to a tax on short-term capital inflows.
"The Treasury came in and said that Chile's controls had to go," recalled one participant, saying others had argued that "a sensible set of capital controls" was reasonable for small nations that could be devastated by a sudden outflow of money.
The issue never ultimately came to a head -- and Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers say it never rose to their level -- because Congress did not pass the legislation needed to conclude a trade agreement with Chile. Still, there is considerable evidence that top Clinton Administration officials were involved in some efforts to seek freer capital flows, as when they pressed South Korea to liberalize its financial system.
After interagency discussions, the Administration dangled an attractive bait: if Korea gave in, it would be allowed to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the club of industrialized nations.
"To enter the O.E.C.D.," recalled a senior official of the organization, "the Koreans agreed to liberalize faster than they had originally planned. They were concerned that if they went too fast, a number of their financial institutions would be unable to adapt."
The pressure on them is reflected in an internal three-page Treasury Department memorandum dated June 20, 1996. The memo lays out Treasury's negotiating position, listing "priority areas where Treasury is seeking further liberalization."
These included letting foreigners buy domestic Korean bonds; letting Korean companies borrow abroad both short term and long term, and letting foreigners buy Korean stocks more easily. Such steps would help Korean companies gain more access to foreign loans and investment, but they would also make Korea more vulnerable to precisely the kind of panicky outflow of capital that unfolded at the end of 1997.
Moreover, for all Washington's insistence that it emphasized building financial oversight, nowhere in the memo's three pages is there a hint that South Korea should improve its bank regulation or legal institutions, or take similar steps. Rather, the goal is clearly to use the O.E.C.D. as a way of prying open Korean markets -- in part to win business for American banks and brokerages.
"These areas are all of interest to the U.S. financial services community," the memo reads.
In the end, Korea opened up the wrong way: it kept restrictions on long-term investments like buying Korean companies, but it dropped those on short-term money like bank loans, which could be pulled out quickly.
Then, in April 1997, Mr. Rubin headed a meeting in which finance ministers of the seven leading industrialized countries issued a statement "promoting freedom of capital flows" and urging that the International Monetary Fund charter be amended so that it could lead the charge for capital account liberalization.
Some Treasury officials now portray the effort to amend the charter as a fund initiative that they were not directly involved in, and indeed Britain was an early public backer of the idea. But a senior Treasury official acknowledges that the idea originated with American officials based in the fund who report to Treasury, and who consulted on the idea with members of the Administration. Indeed, in a speech delivered in March 1998, eight months after the crisis began, Mr. Summers reaffirmed his support of capital liberalization, although he cautioned that it could be phased in.
The records of the monetary fund -- which was in many ways an instrument of American policy -- also show that it was urging some countries in this direction already. In July 1996, the fund's executive board praised Indonesia's "open capital account" and, a few months later, "welcomed the recent acceleration of capital account liberalization" in South Korea.
Mr. Rubin argues now that it is wrong to suggest that the Clinton Administration was pushing for free capital flows while neglecting efforts to build modern financial and legal systems. As for pressing capital account liberalization, Mr. Rubin said his far greater concern was to strengthen banks, regulatory oversight and legal systems in other countries.
"Reducing capital controls was undoubtedly an objective of some of the things the Administration did," Mr. Rubin said. "But I never would have recollected it as a priority."
Still, he said the attempt to revise the monetary fund charter to promote capital liberalization was no longer a priority, and he hinted that this reflected changing views.
"As you go along," he said, "you adjust your position to reflect your experience."
 
Money Floods Asia
 A flood of capital poured into emerging markets in the early and mid-1990's, including $93 billion in 1996 alone into just five countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand. Then there was a net outflow of $12 billion from those five countries in 1997.
This turnabout, which was most evident in short-term loans, amounted to a financial hurricane, one that would harm any country in the world.
So while economists welcome free capital flows in principle, extensive scholarly work had clearly established the importance of "sequencing" -- meaning that countries should liberalize capital flows only after building up bank supervision and a legal infrastructure. A French scholar, Charles Wyplosz, of the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva, concludes in an academic paper that "financial market liberalization is the best predictor of currency crisis."
Mr. Summers himself had emphasized the need for caution in financial deregulation in 1993, when he was still chief economist at the World Bank. He noted in a paper then that poor countries usually have "only quite limited bank supervision," adding, "As is true for nuclear power plants, free entry is not sensible in banking."
That scholarly emphasis on caution was drowned out in the rush to open financial markets. And one intrinsic problem was that while developing countries had a strong vested interest in opening up to foreign capital, to let money come in, they saw little benefit in building modern banking and legal institutions. Indeed, in some cases, top officials and their friends had a major stake in maintaining financial systems in which what counted above all was political connections.
"Financial liberalization was undertaken in countries that didn't have the infrastructure to support it," reflected Ricki R. Helfer, a leading international bank regulator and former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. "That was one of the principal causes of the Asian crisis."
Given their backgrounds, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers were more aware of the risks than most others, and they did urge better regulation of international banking. For instance, at the 1995 meeting of the seven leading industrialized nations in Halifax, Nova Scotia, an American-led initiative called for improved financial regulation and data reporting for industrialized nations and eventually others as well.
Still, these steps to improve banking oversight were modest and proceeded slowly, while liberalization hurtled along. American officials pressed for oversight, but they continued to press harder, and certainly more effectively, for liberalization.
A former senior Treasury official ruefully recalls arguments with Mr. Stiglitz, then in the White House as an adviser. Mr. Stiglitz was warning about the need for slower pacing of financial liberalization abroad, but nobody listened.
"I viewed 'pace' as an excuse by countries to keep their markets closed," the Treasury official said.
W. Bowman Cutter, who served as Mr. Rubin's deputy at the National Economic Council, said that all of the policy makers understood the risks and that in speeches "every one of them gave the qualifications -- that before you opened your markets to free flows of capital, you need to have the institutional strength to deal with it."
"Having said that," he added, "I think that we all missed the true importance and the difficulties created by the enormous growth of the amount of free cash floating around the world. In the speeches, we said the right things. But it was a question of where was the emphasis and where was the force."
In practice, liberalization frequently takes place without any improvement in bank supervision, and it is often accompanied by a rise in shady dealings. In 1996 Thailand's Justice Minister accused his fellow Cabinet members of taking $90 million in bribes in exchange for handing out banking licenses. And when the Bangkok Bank of Commerce, Thailand's ninth-largest bank, collapsed in 1996 it turned out that 47 percent of its assets were bad loans, many of them to associates of the bank's president.
Still, cronyism and corruption, while aggravating factors, were not necessary to touch off a crisis.
"The simple fact," said James Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, "is that very sophisticated banks loaned to Indonesian companies, without any real knowledge of their financial condition, based on name, based on competition. So you have to say to yourself, would it have made any difference if they had known? Well, maybe, but they did go nuts."
 
Turning Point in '95
In 1995 governments did two things that would set up the emerging markets for trouble. What appeared to be a brilliant bailout of Mexico, led by Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers, convinced investors that some countries were too strategically important to be allowed to fail. And then, when finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrialized countries gathered in Washington on April 24, 1995, they agreed to try to push up the value of the dollar against the Japanese yen.
The accord worked. The dollar rose smartly against the yen, easing the risk of a global crisis at that time.
But the pact also caused the rise of currencies like the Thai baht and the South Korean won, which were informally pegged to the dollar. Thailand and South Korea had already lost some competitiveness when China devalued its currency in 1994, and now they were tugged upward along with the dollar so that their exports became more expensive and even less competitive.
The upshot was that goods made there had more trouble competing abroad. Thai exports were stagnant in 1996 after having soared 23 percent in 1995, and the Thai current account deficit (a broad measure of the balance of trade) rose to 8 percent of gross national product in 1996, up from 2 percent in the late 1980's. Foreign currency reserves began to drain away to pay for the deficits, and the seeds of the crisis were sown. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); THAILAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); THAILAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INSURANCE (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ROGER ALTMAN (54%); 



367 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Houses Too Clean for Comfort

BYLINE: By Louise Rafkin; Louise Rafkin is the author of "Other People's Dirt: A Housecleaner's Curious Adventures."

DATELINE: EMERYVILLE, Calif.

 BODY:
It seems as if just about everyone can afford a housecleaner these days. Housecleaners used to be the coveted prizes of the middle or upper classes: "Mine even does the ironing!" were once fighting words.
But I now know cabdrivers and waitresses who cough up 40 bucks a week for a good once-over. Even recent college graduates are hiring help, and advertisements for roommates often include the price of a shared cleaning lady. 
 "You do your own cleaning?" I was recently asked by a twenty-something acquaintance. "I wouldn't even know how to mop a floor." It's no wonder that more affluent households are taking the next step and getting full-time butlers. There's even a school that trains butlers and house managers -- the Professional Domestic Institute in Columbus, Ohio.
Students in the program learn basic skills like cooking and cleaning -- though a glance at the school's Web page shows that prospective butlers seem willing to do just about anything.
When the cost of such all-inclusive care runs as low as $25,000 a year, who wouldn't mind having someone else to do the ironing and to make sure there was enough toilet paper in the house? And who could possibly complain about being met at the door with a fresh martini after a long day at the office?
Still, I fear where this trend might be leading us. Sure, America was founded on the principle of a classless society, but that's an ideal we've never achieved. And as the economic gap between the haves and the have-nots grows wider, I wonder if we are returning to the days when everyone knew his or her place.
In the 1920's and 30's, when rich was rich and poor was poor, big houses employed more than 30 servants. At William Randolph Hearst's estate on Long Island, one man's entire job was to dust table legs. (Another member of the staff kept the table tops dust free.)
These houses were staffed largely with Europeans, especially Irish and English servants who were well versed in what it meant to serve. (This also allowed employers to sidestep the messy issues of race.) An Englishwoman I know who worked for the Hearsts, as well as for the Fricks and a branch of the Kennedy clan, told me she easily found work because employers thought her accent gave homes an air of European refinement, even though she came from dirt-poor country stock. Now in her 90's, she is once again dirt poor and living off the generosity of her last employer, whom she stopped working for more than 20 years ago.
This story should not be repeated in today's world, because employers are required to pay Social Security for their servants. But the difference between the lives of those served and those doing the serving can still be disconcerting.
One major-domo I met recently said his job was to open every door for his "madame" and be at the ready if she dropped a tissue. "She has never run her own bath," he said. "I don't think she would know how."
I questioned whether this very rich woman was able to understand people less fortunate than herself. "She didn't understand me," he snipped, "when I asked for one day off a week." Needless to say, he is no longer working for her.
A friend of mine who is a writer and also works as a "personal assistant" to an artist complains that her employer doesn't understand what can or can't be done, or how long it takes to accomplish something. Her boss has never tried to buy swim goggles at 10 at night or tried to send flower seeds overseas (a no-no).
The people who hire servants can avoid taking responsibility for their own lives. We live in a sweep-under-the-rug culture: we make messes, and then we ignore them. Or we hope no one finds out about them. Or we bury the mess in the Nevada desert -- and then hope the bucket doesn't leak.
We expect that somehow, someone else will take care of everything -- and that someone is too often regarded as somebody whose life isn't worth as much as ours. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC SERVICE; LABOR EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); 

PERSON: RAFKIN, LOUISE

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999



368 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 3; Column 1; Men's Health 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: What We've Learned From Those Little Blue Pills

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
IS there anyone who is not sick of hearing about Viagra? Since it was introduced last April, Pfizer's tiny blue impotence pill has popped up virtually everywhere, from the cover of Time magazine to the late-night lingo of Leno and Letterman. Even Bob and Elizabeth Dole, not ones to babble the family gossip in front of a national audience, were so amazed at Viagra's powers that they appeared separately on "Larry King Live" to tell the world about it.
With such testimonials -- the Internet had the best, including the story of a man who had an erection that lasted several hours -- it was no wonder that Viagra became one of the most successful drugs ever introduced in the United States. By late December, some 7.5 million prescriptions had been written, enough to boost Viagra's worldwide sales to $788 million. 
 Years ago, pharmaceutical executives would have sworn that a drug made primarily for men could never reap such a bounty. They don't say that anymore. Viagra revolutionized the way drugs are sold to men. Herein, a few marketing lessons that Viagra taught the drug industry.
1. Don't ask a man to take care of himself. Women, on average, see a doctor each year 27 percent more often than men do, according to an industry consultant, IMS Health Inc. It is unlikely then that men will try treatments that require them to visit a doctor more than once. With Viagra, men can get a prescription in a single visit. They can even phone the family doctor and have their wives pick up the telltale evidence.
Once a pill is in hand, don't expect a good man to closely scrutinize the label. Men don't like to give up bad habits -- including drinking and smoking -- to reap the full benefits of their medicines. Even though Pfizer warned men that Viagra could not reverse the effects of alcohol on their erections, many adventurous lads sampled small amounts of alcohol and discovered that the drug worked fine. Cigarette smoking also got a thumbs up, as expected given the nature of the activity.
2. Men prefer the Mary Poppins approach to medicine. When Viagra was introduced, it was estimated that 30 million men in the United States suffered from erectile dysfunction, the politically correct name for impotence, but that only 2.7 million men sought medical help for it in 1997.
While men were shy about discussing erectile dysfunction, they had another reason to keep quiet. The main treatment for the problem was a painful injection aimed directly at you know where. Since Viagra was a pill, it was viewed as nothing short of a godsend.
"Viagra being a pill really appealed to men," said Seth Koeppel, the chief executive of Men's Health Centers, a chain of erectile dysfunction clinics in Boca Raton, Fla.
"Their attitude is, 'Just give me a pill. I need the quick fix.' " Mr. Koeppel said. "Of course, if it comes down to taking a pill or sticking a needle in your favorite friend, which would you choose?"
3. Don't give men a lot of instructions. Doctors insist that they won't read them anyway. Pharmaceutical executives have begun to figure this out. Last year, the overwhelming majority of new drugs were easy-to-take once-a-day pills. Let's face it, anything more complicated would have taxed the male mind, or at least his tolerance for medicine taking.
With Viagra, it has become apparent that a drug made primarily for men can never be too simple. Doctors were told to give their patients two prime instructions: that Viagra usually takes an hour to work and that its user would still need sexual stimulation. Even so, the leading question on Pfizer's toll-free line was, How does the drug work? Men had forgotten the part about sexual stimulation.
4. Men don't like to be alone. It should come as no surprise that men don't sit around the locker room discussing erectile dysfunction. And until Viagra's introduction, advertising executives didn't like talking about it either. Vivus Inc., which makes Muse, an injectable treatment for erectile dysfunction, had hoped to run an advertisement for its product during the 1998 Super Bowl. But NBC nixed the spot because of the sensitive subject matter.
Pfizer made men more comfortable with erectile dysfunction by making Viagra a couple's therapy. Since some women take Viagra, many men have begun to think of the drug as gender neutral. Viagra's consumer ads do little to dispel that notion. One popular campaign shows a gray-haired man slow-dancing with an attractive woman who is nearly his age.
5. Men want visible results, fast. A little more than a year ago, Merck & Company introduced Propecia, a prescription pill for hair growth. Wall Street analysts went wild, estimating that its sales last year would easily reach $300 million.
To be so naive. Propecia's sales were only one-third that because Merck over-estimated the patience levels of the drug's male users. For men to see any evidence that Propecia was working, they would have to stare into their mirrors for months. Analysts agree that any longer than a day is asking for trouble.
By contrast, Viagra was quick acting and there could be no doubt whether it had worked or not.
"You can tell when Viagra is working," said David Saks, a managing director at Gruntal & Company, a financial company. "But most drugs of this type take some time. It would be great that you could take a pill to grow hair in the morning and by the afternoon, you'd look like a model for GQ."
6. Price does not matter. Neither does insurance coverage. It took most of the nation's health maintenance organizations a matter of days to decide that they would not fully cover Viagra, leaving most men to pay for the pills themselves.
Sales soared anyway, as men eagerly shelled out some $70 for seven pills. While that is expensive by industry standards -- a generic painkiller sells for as little as 30 cents a pill -- men were willing to pay a premium for a drug they wanted.
"When Viagra was launched, there was a lot of concern that the price could prevent it from being a big winner," Mr. Saks said. "But it turns out that men were willing to pay for that kind of pill. And women are paying for it as well, for their husbands and for themselves."
One year after its introduction, Viagra is still one of the least-insured drugs available. Only 40 percent of prescriptions written in the United States are covered by third parties, according to IMS Health, compared with 72.2 percent for Muse. But sales figures tell the story. Viagra has an 86 percent cut of the United States market. Muse has only 8 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Burrell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (85%); IMS HEALTH INC (67%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SEX; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); VIAGRA (DRUG); MEN; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; IMPOTENCE PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); MEN (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SMOKING (70%); FAMILY PRACTICE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J JAY LENO (57%); ELIZABETH DOLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



369 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Men's Health 

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: Why Men Don't Last: Self-Destruction as a Way of Life

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER 

 BODY:
MY father had great habits. Long before ficus trees met weight machines, he was a dogged exerciser. He did push-ups and isometrics. He climbed rocks. He went for long, vigorous walks. He ate sparingly and avoided sweets and grease. He took such good care of his teeth that they looked fake.
My father had terrible habits. He was chronically angry. He threw things around the house and broke them. He didn't drink often, but when he did, he turned more violent than usual. He didn't go to doctors, even when we begged him to. He let a big, ugly mole on his back grow bigger and bigger, and so he died of malignant melanoma, a curable cancer, at 51. 
 My father was a real man -- so good and so bad. He was also Everyman.
Men by some measures take better care of themselves than women do and are in better health. They are less likely to be fat, for example; they exercise more, and suffer from fewer chronic diseases like diabetes, osteoporosis and arthritis.
By standard measures, men have less than half the rate of depression seen in women. When men do feel depressed, they tend to seek distraction in an activity, which, many psychologists say, can be a more effective technique for dispelling the mood than is a depressed woman's tendency to turn inward and ruminate. In the United States and many other industrialized nations, women are about three times more likely than men to express suicidal thoughts or to attempt to kill themselves.
And yet . . . men don't last. They die off in greater numbers than women do at every stage of life, and thus their average life span is seven years shorter. Women may attempt suicide relatively more often, but in the United States, four times more men than women die from the act each year.
Men are also far more likely than women to die behind the wheel or to kill others as a result of their driving. From 1977 to 1995, three and a half times more male drivers than female drivers were involved in fatal car crashes. Death by homicide also favors men; among those under 30, the male-to-female ratio is 8 to 1.
Yes, men can be impressive in their tendency to self-destruct, explosively or gradually. They are at least twice as likely as women to be alcoholics and three times more likely to be drug addicts. They have an eightfold greater chance than women do of ending up in prison. Boys are much more likely than girls to be thrown out of school for a conduct or antisocial personality disorder, or to drop out on their own surly initiative. Men gamble themselves into a devastating economic and emotional pit two to three times more often than women do.
"Between boys' suicide rates, dropout rates and homicide rates, and men's self-destructive behaviors generally, we have a real crisis in America," said William S. Pollack, a psychologist at Harvard Medical School and co-director of the Center for Men at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass. "Until recently, the crisis has gone unheralded."
It is one thing to herald a presumed crisis, though, and to cite a ream of gloomy statistics. It is quite another to understand the crisis, or to figure out where it comes from or what to do about it. As those who study the various forms of men's self-destructive behaviors realize, there is not a single, glib, overarching explanation for the sex-specific patterns they see.
A crude evolutionary hypothesis would have it that men are natural risk-takers, given to showy displays of bravado, aggression and daring all for the sake of attracting a harem of mates. By this premise, most of men's self-destructive, violent tendencies are a manifestation of their need to take big chances for the sake of passing their genes into the river of tomorrow.
Some of the data on men's bad habits fit the risk-taker model. For example, those who study compulsive gambling have observed that men and women tend to display very different methods and preferences for throwing away big sums of money.
"Men get enamored of the action in gambling," said Linda Chamberlain, a psychologist at Regis University in Denver who specializes in treating gambling disorders. "They describe an overwhelming rush of feelings and excitement associated with the process of gambling. They like the feeling of being a player, and taking on a struggle with the house to show that they can overcome the odds and beat the system. They tend to prefer the table games, where they can feel powerful and omnipotent while everybody watches them."
Dr. Chamberlain noted that many male gamblers engage in other risk-taking behaviors, like auto racing or hang gliding. By contrast, she said, "Women tend to use gambling more as a sedative, to numb themselves and escape from daily responsibilities, or feelings of depression or alienation. Women tend to prefer the solitary forms of gambling, the slot machines or video poker, where there isn't as much social scrutiny."
YET the risk-taking theory does not account for why men outnumber women in the consumption of licit and illicit anodynes. Alcohol, heroin and marijuana can be at least as numbing and sedating as repetitively pulling the arm of a slot machine. And some studies have found that men use drugs and alcohol for the same reasons that women often overeat: as an attempt to self-medicate when they are feeling anxious or in despair.
"We can speculate all we want, but we really don't know why men drink more than women," said Enoch Gordis, the head of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Nor does men's comparatively higher rate of suicide appear linked to the risk-taking profile. To the contrary, Paul Duberstein, an assistant professor of psychiatry and oncology at the University of Rochester School of Medicine, has found that people who complete a suicidal act are often low in a personality trait referred to as "openness to experience," tending to be rigid and inflexible in their behaviors. By comparison, those who express suicidal thoughts tend to score relatively high on the openness-to-experience scale.
Given that men commit suicide more often than women, and women talk about it more, his research suggests that, in a sense, women are the greater risk-takers and novelty seekers, while the men are likelier to feel trapped and helpless in the face of changing circumstances.
Silvia Cara Canetto, an associate professor of psychology at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, has extensively studied the role of gender in suicidal behaviors. Dr. Canetto has found that cultural narratives may determine why women attempt suicide more often while men kill themselves more often. She proposes that in Western countries, to talk about suicide or to survive a suicidal act is often considered "feminine," hysterical, irrational and weak. To actually die by one's own hand may be viewed as "masculine," decisive, strong. Even the language conveys the polarized, weak-strong imagery: a "failed" suicide attempt as opposed to a "successful" one.
"There is indirect evidence that there is negative stigma toward men who survive suicide," Dr. Canetto said. "Men don't want to 'fail,' even though failing in this case means surviving." If the "suicidal script" that identifies completing the act as "rational, courageous and masculine" can be "undermined and torn to pieces," she said, we might have a new approach to prevention.
Dr. Pollack of the Center for Men also blames many of men's self-destructive ways on the persistent image of the dispassionate, resilient, action-oriented male -- the Marlboro Man who never even gasps for breath. For all the talk of the sensitive "new man," he argues, men have yet to catch up with women in expanding their range of acceptable emotions and behaviors. Men in our culture, Dr. Pollack says, are pretty much limited to a menu of three strong feelings: rage, triumph, lust. "Anything else and you risk being seen as a sissy," he said.
In a number of books, most recently "Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons From the Myths of Boyhood," he proposes that boys "lose their voice, a whole half of their emotional selves," beginning at age 4 or 5. "Their vulnerable, sad feelings and sense of need are suppressed or shamed out of them," he said -- by their peers, parents, the great wide televised fist in their face.
HE added: "If you keep hammering it into a kid that he has to look tough and stop being a crybaby and a mama's boy, the boy will start creating a mask of bravado."
That boys and young men continue to feel confused over the proper harmonics of modern masculinity was revealed in a study that Dr. Pollack conducted of 200 eighth-grade boys. Through questionnaires, he determined their scores on two scales, one measuring their "egalitarianism" -- the degree to which they think men and women are equal, that men should change a baby's diapers, that mothers should work and the like -- and the other gauging their "traditionalism" as determined by their responses to conventional notions, like the premise that men must "stand on their own two feet" and must "always be willing to have sex if someone asks."
On average, the boys scored high on both scales. "They are split on what it means to be a man," said Dr. Pollack.
The cult of masculinity can beckon like a siren song in baritone. Dr. Franklin L. Nelson, a clinical psychologist at the Fairbanks Community Mental Health Center in Alaska, sees many men who get into trouble by adhering to sentimental notions of manhood. "A lot of men come up here hoping to get away from a wimpy world and live like pioneers by old-fashioned masculine principles of individualism, strength and ruggedness," he said. They learn that nothing is simple; even Alaska is part of a wider, interdependent world and they really do need friends, warmth and electricity.
"Right now, it's 35 degrees below zero outside," he said during a January interview. "If you're not prepared, it doesn't take long at that temperature to freeze to death."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Kyrsten Brooker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEN; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; WOMEN EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER (90%); SUICIDE (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (89%); MEN (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); SKIN CANCER (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (72%); DEPRESSION (72%); ARTHRITIS (72%); CRIME RATES (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); OSTEOPOROSIS (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); DIABETES (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); PERSONALITY DISORDERS (65%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (62%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE LINDA CHAMBERLAIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



370 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Men's Health 

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Don't Take Your Medicine Like a Man;
As Patients, Men Are Impatient, or Uneasy, or Both. They Need to Get a Grip, Like Women.

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE; Robert Lipsyte, a Sports and City section columnist for The Times, is host of a weekly Cablevision program, "Metro Health."

 BODY:
DOCTORS once loved me, or would have if I had gone to them more often. Fix me quick, sawbones, I would say, there's a big land out there to tame and my horse is double-parked. I was heroic and stoic, the stereotypical male health care consumer. I paid on the way out.
It took 20 years of being a cancer patient and a care giver, but I think I am on my way to becoming the stereotypical female health consumer, assertive and needy. Dr. Glenn E. Good, a psychologist at the University of Missouri, thinks my psychic sex change could add years to my life. 
 "Of course, you'll be terrible for managed care," he said, "demanding information and taking time to learn about treatment options and side effects."
That there is a vast difference between the way men and women approach their health care is not exactly news. There are statistics: Male patients account for only 40 percent of physicians' visits, according to Dr. Good, and during the last 40 years there have been 4,393 entries in Medline (an Internet data base of health information) for "women's health" compared to 94 for "men's health." In addition, a recent nationwide telephone poll conducted by CNN and Men's Health magazine found that while 76 percent of American women have had a health exam in the last 12 months, only 60 percent of men have had the same.
There are also theories: that men, for example, are afraid of appearing dependent and vulnerable, while women, traditionally care givers for children and the elderly, are savvier medical consumers.
"A woman finds out she has breast cancer because she self-examined or had a mammogram," said Dr. Paul Russo, a urological surgeon at the Memorial Sloan- Kettering Cancer Center. "She was proactive from the start. Women have an early conditioning toward health; they went to gynecologists, women's doctors. There is no comparable men's doctor."
My own medical education began in the summer of 1978, when a suburban urologist told me that I probably had testicular cancer. Catatonic, I missed his excitement at dealing with the kind of case he usually only read about. Thankfully, my wife, Marjorie, had pushed her way into the examining room. She was used to asking questions for the kids.
"How many of these do you do a year?" she asked.
"Two or three," he said.
That was still fine with me. Passively, I signed up for an operation in his hospital. I told Marjorie that it was probably nothing, that I wanted to be close to home, that I didn't want to make a big deal of all this. Back home, I sat numbly until Marjorie nagged me into making an appointment at Sloan-Kettering. Still, I was ready to follow the next alpha male who told me what to do. When the jock surgeon cheerily pronounced my lump "suspicious," I felt a certain thrill at being included in this top doc's excellent adventure.
It was that. For three weeks, I lived in a company of men as bonded as my old Army basic training squad. We were as intimate and tender with each other as I think girl friends are, and we mocked the doctors and nurses behind their backs.
But even then, we did not ask the questions about prognosis, treatment, side effects and sexuality that we needed answered to make informed decisions. We might wear sports gear over our open-ended hospital gowns, but any flash of independence evaporated when the arrogant parade of white coats appeared to poke and pontificate over our heads.
Susan Alfano, a nurse who has worked both in the breast and urology services at Sloan-Kettering, said that men "often short-change themselves by being our version of the 'good patient,' quiet, more willing to give up control." This makes them easier to take care of, she said, but does not necessarily serve them well.
Through two years of chemotherapy, I feigned control by imagining that this was some kind of advanced-placement test. If I survived, I would be tougher than tumors. Week after week, I sat passively in the waiting rooms of Sloan-Kettering, surrounded by other men who had obviously concocted their own fantasies. Men glanced at their watches, annoyed that their trains had been late. Men riffled importantly through spread sheets, briefs, stock tables, racetrack results and auto ads in this extension of their offices. Others stared down highways that stretched for years. We rarely acknowledged one another because none of us were quite there.
By contrast, women patients and care givers buzzed around reception desks and nurses' stations to be sure appointments had not been forgotten. They buttonholed doctors scurrying from room to room. They never stopped talking among themselves, picking up strangers and making them confidants. Marjorie gathered and shared information about doctors, treatments, nearby restaurants and parking garages.
She was also asking questions that sometimes made the doctors uncomfortable, because they didn't know the answers. By chemo's end, I had grown enough not to respond man to man when the doctors rolled their eyes at me after one of Marjorie's sharp queries.
Then she developed cancer and it was a new ball game.
I became a care giver. While that may still be seen as a stereotypical female role (especially for "the Daughter"), I began to see it as a stereotypical role for a grown-up. Also, it was easier asking questions for my wife than for myself because I could imagine myself in the role of protector instead of scaredy-cat.
"Men and women have similar life processes and needs," said Dr. Martin Miner, a family practice physician in Swansea, Mass., who has conducted men's-health research for drug companies. "But, typically, as in your case, it took a dramatic event, an illness, a body change, to open up to the process of articulating fears and confronting them."
MEN, Dr. Miner pointed out, are often under pressure to be providers for their families, which includes hiding their anxieties so as not to alarm the wife and children. "Men feel they are not allowed to manifest illness unless it's overt," he said. "One reason men die 7.2 years earlier than women is because of the length of time before they go for treatment. And even if they survive, their quality of life tends to be less than a woman's."
By the 90's, when Marjorie and I each had second rounds with cancer, the patient had become the health care consumer, a citizen with rights, a person whose illness was not a punishment, a customer who should be allowed to make informed decisions.
This concept did not come from the powerful white men who managed the system, but from those traditionally marginalized by medicine -- male homosexuals, black and Hispanic intravenous drug users and women. The gallantry and political energy of AIDS and breast cancer groups certainly informed me when I was diagnosed with cancer again.
My old surgeon had retired and I didn't like his replacement. A few years earlier, I might have left the hospital in a huff or just passively grumbled and taken it like a man. Now, I demanded a choice, which was no simple matter, but eventually brought me to the open and accessible Dr. Russo.
"I think we're beginning to see some changes in male attitudes," Dr. Russo said. "When you've got a General Schwarzkopf ordering men to get prostate exams, a Michael Milken looking to conquer health problems the way he conquered junk bonds, you've got the beginning of a movement. But can they raise awareness the way women did for breast cancer?"
Nurse Alfano sees any change complicated by basic male-female relationships: men are used to being cared for by women who are often economically dependent on a man's good health. "When a male patient starts to have difficulty emotionally after discharge, the phone call I get is usually from his wife or daughter," she said. "She'll ask me to give him a pep talk without letting him know she called. It often works. This is what's interesting to me: I'm not sure the reason it works or the reason I go along with it is because I am a health care worker or because I am a woman."
This sort of conspiracy of women is seen by some pragmatists as the best way to get men healthier; appeal to wives and daughters to bring men in for checkups and follow-ups by expressing their concern or by downright nagging.
Conversely, the psychologist, Dr. Good, thinks that men can be brought into the medical tent by language changes. Because the "care" in health care sounds feminine, he writes, phrases like "tune-ups" and "executive coaching" and "a chance to enhance optimal functioning" might help.
Both scenarios seem to have the drawback of playing the gender card without really changing the system or sensibility.
Dr. Miner thinks sex is the hook, since most men seem to equate good health with sexual functioning. That view is supported by the covers of popular health magazines, which usually promote articles on sexual performance (and on tightening the abdominals to impress dates so that one gets a chance to perform). Even the Harvard Men's Health Watch, a serious newsletter, seems to publish a prostate story in every issue.
Dr. Miner wants to broaden men's definition of sexual health to include intimacy, feelings and the mind-body connection; women, he noted, have always used these as aids to wellness and healing. He also thinks that there will be a boom in men's health as soon as the pharmaceutical companies figure out how to exploit the market beyond drugs like Viagra.
NOW that gives me anxiety I can't hide. The merchandisers of men's drugs, which include cars and beer sold as sex aids, know our insecurities and our twisted self-images all too well. Will they help us deal with the underpublicized problems of male depression and suicide, or will they keep us running with the cash bulls of natural baldness and relaxed stomach muscles?
Or, with old generals barking orders and old financiers pulling strings, will men enter a vast new frontier where we will confront our physical and psychological fears, get healthier, live longer? Where we will learn to take our medicine like a woman?
"You keep saying that," Dr. Good complained. "Why do you call the result of your revelations becoming more 'female'? Why not that you're finally becoming a good patient?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos:
(Shown: John Burstein, the creator of the "Slim Goodbody" suit for teaching programs.)
 
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
(Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
(pg. G8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (67%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); MISSOURI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEN WOMEN'S HEALTH (92%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); MEN (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CANCER (89%); UROLOGY (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (79%); BREAST CANCER (77%); WOMEN (77%); CANCER HOSPITALS (76%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); TESTICULAR CANCER (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHILDREN (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



371 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN PLUMMETS. Japan's currency sank to a 10-week low against the dollar after Japanese finance officials said they favored a weaker currency. In New York, the dollar settled at 118.74 yen, up from 114.21 on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Aug., 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



372 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Advances by 22.14, to 9,297.03, in Mixed Trading

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as Dell Computer fell for a second session, but a bond rally lifted Fannie Mae and other financial companies.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 22.14 points, or two-tenths of a percent, to 9,297.03, after climbing as much as 112 points and falling as much as 40. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.74 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 1,241.87. The Nasdaq composite index fell 8.02 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 2,313.87, erasing a 46-point gain. Advancers and decliners were almost evenly matched on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 "The market is very volatile," said Eric Efron, a money manager for the USAA Investment Management Company in San Antonio. "Investors are nervous and moving quickly from one direction to another depending on the information they get. There is a general anxiety over earnings."
Dell was the most active stock, falling 1 1/8, to 88 3/4, after initially rising 4 1/2. After the market closed, Dell reported earnings of 31 cents a share for the quarter ended Jan. 29, matching estimates. Revenue rose 38 percent, the first time in two years sales growth has not topped 50 percent. The stock fell 3 3/4, to 85, in after-hours trading.
The No. 1 direct seller of personal computers tumbled 12 points on Friday after analysts warned competition was hurting revenue growth. Dell, the best-performing stock in the S.& P. 500 over the last three years, "is still a great story, but their growth forecasts are becoming more reasonable," said Michelle Clayman, chief investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners L.L.C., which oversees $652 billion.
Financial stocks gained as the dollar rose to a 10-week high against the yen, fueling a rally in bonds. A stronger dollar makes Treasuries more attractive.
Financial services companies benefit from lower bond yields because the demand for loans increases as borrowing costs decline. Fannie Mae, the largest provider of mortgage money in the United States, rose 2 3/4, to 72 3/16 . Citigroup gained 1 9/16 , to 53 7/16 , and American Express climbed 2 1/4, to 102 3/16 .
Hewlett-Packard, which fell 3 3/16 , to 73 1/4, could gain today. After the close, the No. 2 computer maker reported earnings of 92 cents a share, beating the average forecast by 10 cents.
Investors have been betting for the last three months that Hewlett-Packard shares would rally, according to money flow data from Bloomberg Analytics. They bought more shares in rallies than they sold in declines.
Yesterday's swings in the Nasdaq follow a wild week for the index. Last Thursday, the Nasdaq had its biggest point gain ever. The next day, it suffered its fourth-biggest point drop.
"We're seeing a continuation of the volatility in the Nasdaq," said Cummins Catherwood, a money manager at Rutherford, Brown & Catherwood Inc. in Philadelphia, which oversees $570 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Jan. 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); USAA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



373 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 6746 words

HEADLINE: Of World Markets, None an Island

SERIES: GLOBAL CONTAGION: A Narrative -- Third of four articles.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF with SHERYL WuDUNN 

 BODY:
In Red Square, just across from the mausoleum where Lenin lies in state like some old biological curiosity preserved in formaldehyde, there is a grand three-story stone building that these days is in about the same shape.
The rococo facade of the GUM department store resembles that of a cathedral, but its gaudy interior is an emporium with mink coats on hangers and on customers. GUM seemed a symbol of Russia's hope, for the spiffily dressed chairman of the board, Yuri B. Solomatin, 44, came across as a Russian capitalist with a difference. 
 Mr. Solomatin eschewed the mob, limousines and bodyguards; he did not wear fat diamonds on his fingers or endless-legged women on his elbow, and he boasted of running the most open, market-oriented, Western-style company in all Russia -- proving this by granting himself and other managers stock options that soared fifteenfold. He sold more than half GUM's stock to foreigners, mostly Americans and Europeans, an unheard-of feat in nationalistic Russia.
Then came the Russian devaluation and market meltdown in August, and suddenly GUM crumbled. Its stock has fallen to 25 cents a share, from a peak of $5.40, and its shops today are a sea of signs that scream skidka -- discount.
"Overnight," Mr. Solomatin said heavily, sitting in a third-floor conference room, "we were made paupers."
How did GUM get hit by what started as a run on the Thai currency in July 1997?
Why did the crisis ripple from country to country and end up leaving Russia facing hunger and economic chaos, with 30 percent of Russians living below the poverty line, up from 18 percent at the end of 1996?
And why has it now hit Brazil and shaken financial markets in Argentina, Colombia and Mexico?
The answers will be hotly debated for years, but some tentative explanations are emerging for what is known as the contagion effect: the tendency of a financial crisis to spread and "infect" other nations.
The growing interdependence through the fabric of the world economy connected GUM even to Mary Jo Paoni, a secretary in Cantrall, Ill. Mrs. Paoni patronizes a Bergners department store, and her husband frequents Kmart, but through her Illinois state pension fund she was in a sense a tiny part owner of GUM.
The pension fund owned $7.2 million worth of the Brinson Emerging Markets Fund, and records show that Brinson in turn bought $138,000 in GUM stock.
Mrs. Paoni was linked to GUM in another way, for her pension fund has $1 million worth of shares in Germany's Dresdner Bank. And Dresdner, excited by GUM's prospects, lent it $10 million.
In the Soviet days, GUM was the best department store in the country, with lines of people waiting each morning to enter, and it set aside a special area on the third floor, Section 100, where ordinary shoppers were banned and top Communist Party officials could pick up fine clothing unavailable anywhere else in Russia.
Partly because of its fame, GUM was among the first Russian companies to be privatized after the fall of the Soviet Union. It became an upscale shopping mall, and every day 200,000 shoppers trooped down its aisles.
More than 40 international retailers occupied space, paying what analysts said were higher rents than anywhere else in Europe. Samsonite reported that it sold more per square foot in its luggage store in GUM than in any of its other outlets around the world.
Over all in GUM, sales soared to an average of $926 per square foot, one of the highest such figures in the world. In contrast, Bloomingdale's in New York says that its sales are $267 per square foot.
Fund managers were impressed by all this and by GUM's declared commitment to international standards. It even put out annual reports in English as well as Russian.
"GUM has a strong balance sheet, no long-term debt and high liquidity," wrote Sector Capital, a Moscow investment bank, in 1996. "The company is very profitable, with a 40 percent return on assets. Together with the company's financial stability, this makes GUM a very attractive investment."
In retrospect, GUM and its American owners made the same kind of mistake as the Thai real estate developers who started the whole mess. They became so accustomed to the long summer days that they came to disbelieve in winter.
When Thailand floated its currency on July 2, 1997, the date that is now regarded as the beginning of the global financial crisis, the only shudder passing through GUM was one of delight -- at its rising stock price. Over the next three months the stock rose 37 percent, to a new peak.
 
Thai Problems Spread
 Nobody else was initially very worried that Thailand's problems would radiate around the world. While some of Thailand's underlying problems were well known, on the day of the devaluation the Thai stock market rose 7.9 percent, its biggest gain in more than five years.
In hindsight, absolutely everyone seems to have made a catastrophic misdiagnosis of the problem, one that resulted in Thailand's getting insufficient treatment and in exposing other countries to the contagion. The misdiagnosis was twofold: first, that Thailand probably faced a typical temporary downturn, rather than a staggering depression that would last for years; second, that the problem was largely confined to Thailand rather than the beginnings of a serious global crisis.
The Clinton Administration initially saw the crisis as a replay of what had happened in Mexico in 1995, and prescribed the same mix of austerity and aid. So in the late summer of 1997, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, signed on to a standard International Monetary Fund plan: spending cuts, high interest rates and a repair job on the Thai banking system. But over the protests of the fund, the United States declined to contribute to a bailout.
Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers were adamant that they could not contribute because of Congressionally imposed restrictions. The State and Defense Departments were unhappy with Treasury's tightfistedness, but Treasury officials suggested sarcastically if any other department had a spare billion or two in its budget and wanted to help the Thais, it should feel free to do so.
Mr. Rubin still insists that he made the right economic decision, but he seems less sure that he got the diplomacy right.
"I don't think it would have made a difference economically," he said of a contribution to Thailand. "Diplomatically, I don't know."
A senior State Department official said flatly, "In hindsight it was a mistake."
Thailand appealed to Japan for financial help that summer of 1997, and officials in Tokyo say they thought seriously about arranging a big package of loans. But in the end they did not, partly because Washington insisted that a rescue be made only through the monetary fund and only after imposing tough conditions on Thailand.
With the firm backing of Treasury, the fund initially forced Thailand to accept austerity, including budget cuts and high interest rates. The idea was that sky-high interest rates would attract capital back to Thailand and stabilize exchange rates, but they also ended up devastating otherwise viable businesses. Many economists, including those at the World Bank, have criticized the fund's approach as initially worsening Asia's problems, and even the fund has admitted that its budget cuts were too harsh.
By early 1998, recognizing that the slump was unexpectedly serious and that the initial conditions had been too tough, the fund and Treasury reversed course. They steadily allowed Thailand to reverse planned budget cuts and to ease the austerity, but the damage had been done.
Mr. Rubin stands his ground, saying that the higher rates were needed to stabilize currencies in Thailand and South Korea, laying the groundwork for eventual recovery.
The alternative is "likely very chaotic conditions, far greater inflation and a risk that confidence will not come back for a recovery," he said. Countries like Indonesia that resisted the fund's medicine ended up even worse off, he notes.
After initially bowing to Washington's desires and declining to rescue Thailand directly, Japan became more assertive as it saw the crisis worsen. In September 1997, Japanese officials proposed a $100 billion bailout plan called the Asian Monetary Fund, to be paid for half by Japan and half by other Asian countries.
This would not have cost the United States a penny, but Mr. Rubin was furious about it, partly because the Japanese had not consulted him. He fumed as he strolled about the Air Force jet carrying him to the annual meetings of the fund and World Bank in Hong Kong.
Mr. Rubin, who has often shown a deep distrust and distaste for Japanese officials, gathered with Mr. Summers and other aides in the forward compartment of the plane to plot strategy. As the group nibbled on nachos, Mr. Rubin complained that the proposal would undercut American interests and influence in Asia, and that Japan would lend the money without insisting on tough economic reforms.
Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers succeeded in killing the plan, with the help of Europe and China. Many in Asia now regard that as a crucial missed chance, and there is real bitterness that the United States should have muscled in to prevent Japan's attempted rescue of its neighbors.
Treasury officials stand by their opposition to the Asian Monetary Fund, saying that the plan would not have changed anything, for it would have taken time to implement and, as Japanese officials later acknowledged, Japan was itself hard up for cash.
"The Japanese plan was vapor," a Rubin associate said recently. "It wasn't going to happen. It was ill thought out."
Yet some other American officials now say, a bit sheepishly, that if they had realized the seriousness of the crisis, they might have been more accepting of the proposal. In November 1998, a year after Washington killed the plan, Japan came back with another one, on a smaller scale. Instead of trying to subvert it, Mr. Rubin now called the idea constructive. President Clinton hailed it as one of Japan's "important contributions to regional stabilization."
 
An Economy Self-Destructs
 Treasury opposed the first Japanese fund in part because it -- along with everybody else, including investors, scholars and journalists -- thought that the storm over Asia would probably pass. Yet something fundamental had changed. Perceptions of risk had altered, and people began to get nervous about holding any Asian currency.
The anxieties became self-fulfilling, particularly as Thailand's economy began to self-destruct. Speculators, stock investors and local business people alike wanted the safety of dollars, and during the fall of 1997 currencies fell in the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan and South Korea.
Since many Asian countries had problems with heavily indebted corporations, inflated stock and property prices, overvalued currencies, and bad loans, it was easy to find similarities to Thailand once people began to look. Just as Western capital had flooded into emerging markets as a group in the early and mid-1990's, now it began to ebb.
Take Barton M. Biggs, the strategist at Morgan Stanley who a few years earlier had helped ignite the Asian investment boom. As Thailand began to fall apart in the fall of 1997, he made another trip to Bangkok, and this time his advice was grim.
"I really went with the idea that Asia was sold out and bombed out and that there must be some attractive values," he said in a teleconference with investors on Oct. 27, 1997, recorded by Bloomberg. "And I've got to say that I was disappointed."
Mr. Biggs told investors to sell all their holdings in markets like Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia, and to cut by one-third their investments in emerging markets like Thailand and Indonesia.
 
U.S. Banks Casualty-Free
 The dominoes began to fall. In late October 1997, right after Mr. Biggs's announcement and partly because of it, the Hong Kong stock market plunged 23 percent over four days. The debacle in Hong Kong suddenly caught Wall Street's attention, and in New York on Oct. 27, the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 554 points, its biggest one-day point loss in history.
"That changed everyone's calculations," recalled Stanley Fischer, the fund's deputy chief. Suddenly contagion was the buzzword, and there were regular meetings on the crisis in the Situation Room at the White House. Yet while White House officials pondered what to do, investors were busy selling. Anything that seemed to hint of emerging markets was dumped, and stock markets in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico also suffered their worst one-day losses ever.
Mrs. Paoni's money in the Illinois pension fund joined the rush to the exits. Records show that the fund managers sold Indonesian stocks that had cost them $3.3 million, Malaysian stocks that had cost $1.9 million, Philippine stocks that had cost $1.5 million, South Korean stocks that had cost $1.1 million, and Thai stocks that had cost $2.2 million. Across the world, everybody was doing the same.
Soon Indonesia was forced to accept a $17 billion bailout, later raised to $23 billion, to which the United States agreed to contribute -- an implicit admission that it had made the wrong call with Thailand. Pressure grew on South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, Brazil, Russia and other countries. Everybody seemed alarmed except President Clinton, who in November 1997 tried to sound reassuring.
"We have a few little glitches in the road here," he said. "We're working through them."
Mr. Clinton was perhaps listening too closely to the State Department, for American diplomats in Bangkok were sending out rosy cables, and their counterparts in South Korea were similarly oblivious to the Korean economy's disintegration, which was then well under way. In Washington, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers had a far clearer sense of what was happening in South Korea, and were openly disparaging of the diplomatic reports from the field.
The State Department missed its cues because historically it had focused on the threats from Communists who carry grenades, not on the threats from business executives who wear neckties and trade currencies. The same was true of the Central Intelligence Agency, which proved itself, in the words of one of its top officials, "completely unprepared to deal with questions of an economic nature."
Yet by Thanksgiving Day 1997, it was clear to all top officials in Washington that South Korea was on the brink of an economic catastrophe. After five hours of conference calls among top American officials, President Clinton telephoned President Kim Young Sam of South Korea and told him he had no choice but to accept an international bailout.
Mr. Kim bowed to the inevitable and accepted a bailout that swelled to $57 billion, the biggest ever. But with that money now flowing into South Korea, Western banks saw a chance to take it and run. The banks called in their loans, hoping to flee while they could.
Mr. Rubin quietly called the heads of major banks and urged them to reschedule their loans, and in the end they did.
But the bailout still ended up bolstering Western banks. South Koreans lost their businesses and in some cases were even driven to suicide. But foreign banks -- among them Citibank, J. P. Morgan, Chase Manhattan, BankAmerica and Bankers Trust -- were rewarded with sharply higher interest rates (two to three percentage points higher than the London interbank rate) and a government guarantee that passed the risk of default from their shareholders to Korean taxpayers. The banks say that this was only fair, because they were extending their loans up to three years and thus assuming an extra burden.
Yet in contrast to previous financial crises, which were resolved by banks' effectively paying a good share of the bill, this was a huge bailout with public funds, and the banks did not chip in major new money.
Mr. Rubin defends the bailouts, saying that he "wouldn't spend a nickel" to bail out banks or investors, but that helping the country often means ensuring that it can pay off its creditors.
But critics note that the some of the biggest beneficiaries are the banks. "The effort is hurting the countries they are lending to, and benefiting the foreigners who lent to them," argued Milton Friedman, the Stanford University economist and Nobel Prize winner. Mr. Friedman argues that the monetary fund does more harm than good and is bitterly critical of these bailouts.
"The United States does give foreign aid," he said. "But this is a different kind of foreign aid. It only goes through countries like Thailand to Bankers Trust."
 
Investors Run From Risk
 With the collapse of South Korea, investors rushed from any sign of risk. At Morgan Stanley, Mr. Biggs had bought emerging markets early in 1997 for his own portfolio, but now he sold frantically. Records at the Securities and Exchange Commission show that in December 1997 he sold $56,000 worth of his own company's Malaysian Fund, $650,000 worth of Emerging Markets Fund, $80,000 worth of India Investment Fund, $137,000 in the Pakistan Investment Fund and almost $1.6 million worth of Asia Pacific Fund.
Tens of thousands of other investors were doing likewise, liquidating their holdings in emerging-markets funds. This created another kind of contagion. Sales of emerging-markets mutual funds forced fund managers to pare down their portfolios to pay back shareholders. This meant that fund managers had to trim holdings even in distant countries, even in stocks that they regarded as still valuable.
In this way the electronic herd rushing away from Korea ended up trampling stocks in Argentina and Mexico. The world seemed to be coming apart, and so was the United States Government's consensus on what to do. Indonesia was particularly nettlesome because of the question of how to treat President Suharto, the aging dictator, whom President Clinton had supported.
While on a trip to Texas on Jan. 8, 1998, President Clinton telephoned President Suharto from Air Force One to urge compliance with the monetary fund program. But Mr. Suharto stuck to some of his ideas about how to run the economy, like a "currency board" to back Indonesian money with dollars.
A White House aide recalls Mr. Suharto's growling, "Look, I understand that this doesn't cure anything, but the I.M.F. isn't curing anything either."
American officials were puzzled about what to do, and they had no intuitive feel for what might happen next.
"The nature of the crisis was not understood," recalls a senior official who weathered the thick of the crisis. "We didn't really grasp everything that was going on."
 
Nation's Drive-By Shooting
 Indonesia has been hit hardest, but what remains unclear is whether it had to suffer at all. Some economists argue that Indonesia was simply the victim of the international equivalent of a drive-by shooting.
Its trade balance was in relatively healthy shape. It had a respectable $20 billion in foreign exchange reserves and did not squander them trying to defend its currency. Credit had grown more slowly than in other countries, and there was less indication of a bubble. The Government initially reacted with foresight, going to the fund before any severe problems developed.
Yet in the end the Indonesian currency lost 85 percent of its value, riots cost more than 1,000 lives and hunger became widespread. Today there are doubts about whether Indonesia can survive as a nation; some fear that it will fragment like Yugoslavia.
"These horrendous things did not have to happen," argues Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economist, who blames the United States and the monetary fund for deepening a financial panic. "The crisis was pushed to an extreme that it never had to take."
Indonesia was particularly vulnerable to panic because most of its private wealth is in the hands of ethnic Chinese who are unusually likely to seek safe havens for themselves and their money. Public confidence was therefore Indonesia's most precious commodity, but it dissipated as officials from Washington tangled repeatedly with the Indonesian Government over how to deal with the crisis.
Mr. Suharto's handling of it was disastrous. He backtracked on closing banks, adding to confusion, and resisted many reforms that would have threatened his family empire. The fund forced Indonesia to close 16 banks, but then in an internal document acknowledged that it had gravely erred and that the closures had triggered bank runs around the country.
Both Treasury and the fund ridiculed Mr. Suharto's budget proposal, which because of exchange-rate movements showed a 32 percent spending increase in local currency terms. But three weeks later, having already irreparably harmed Indonesia's image, the fund quietly approved a budget with a 46 percent spending increase.
 
Anatomy of Derivatives
 As currencies and countries tumbled, another form of contagion began to take a toll on world economies: financial derivatives.
Originally called synthetic securities, derivatives are so named because they are derived from something else -- an underlying stock or bond. They can be as simple as an option to buy a stock, or they can be complex products involving multiple currencies, loans and bonds. In effect they are repackaged securities, stuck together like a complex work of financial Lego.
There is nothing inherently harmful about derivatives, and they can be very useful to protect against risks. But they can also be used to speculate. Their tremendous variety is reflected in the nicknames given to various kinds: the jellyroll; the iron butterfly; the condor; the knockout option; the total return swap; the Asian option.
These are jellyrolls that really sell. Western sales teams were active in Asia, and they often peddled complex financial products to customers who sometimes did not understand what they were getting into.
No one believes that derivatives actually caused the crisis. But although the point is bitterly contested by some investment bankers, a number of economists believe that once the crisis started, derivatives helped deepen it and infect other countries. They cite several mechanisms.
First, derivatives made it easier to make high-risk bets on Asia, but these were not publicly reported. As a result, no one had any idea how much betting was going on.
"Derivatives enabled a lot of hot money to flow into Asia below the radar," said Frank Partnoy, a former derivatives salesman and now an assistant professor of law and finance at the University of San Diego.
Second, the riskiness creates a rush to cover bets when the market goes the wrong way, and this scramble sometimes causes wild market swings.
As Mr. Partnoy explained the scramble: "It's as if you're in a theater, and say there are 100 people and you have the rush-to-the-exit problem. With derivatives, it's as if without your knowing it, there are another 500 people in the theater, and you can't see them at first. But then when the rush to the exit starts, suddenly they drop from the ceiling. This makes the panic greater."
Third, derivatives increased the linkages from one country to the next. South Korea, in particular, invested in derivatives and other high-risk securities that were tied to Thailand, Russia, Indonesia and Latin America. South Koreans bought 40 percent of one Russian bond issue and almost all of a Colombian bond issue.
So when those countries soured, South Korean financial institutions were badly hit as well. Derivatives had allowed them high yields but also meant that they stood to lose far more than their principal.
"I think it is quite clear that derivatives are vectors of contagion," said Martin Mayer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
Why did derivatives flourish in Asia? One reason was that until the crisis, they were enormously profitable for everyone. Some Asian financial institutions now grumble about them, but until a couple of years ago Korean mutual funds managed to earn exceptionally high returns in part because of their derivative investments.
Moreover, American banks often made huge sums selling these products in Asia. Jan A. Kregel, who has researched the issue as a senior fellow at the Jerome Levy Economics Institute in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., concludes that in the boom years of both Thailand and Indonesia, Western banks made incomparably more money selling derivatives than making loans, and that in any case much of the lending was linked to derivatives as well. Most of the major American banks -- Bankers Trust and Chase and J. P. Morgan and others -- were actively selling derivatives in Asia.
The problem was not that Westerners were fleecing Asians, for in Asia one of the biggest derivatives players was a Hong Kong investment bank, Peregrine Investments, run by a British former race-car driver named Philip Tose. Founded only in 1988, Peregrine came from nowhere to register an astonishing $25 billion in revenues in 1996.
Then, early last year, Peregrine returned to nowhere. It collapsed in a sea of debts in Indonesia and elsewhere, and the shock then rippled through Asia and around the world.
"It was a major local player," said Christopher Barlow, a finance expert at PricewaterhouseCoopers who is presiding over the liquidation of Peregrine. "A collapse like this causes shock waves in the system and damages confidence." Mr. Barlow said Peregrine had more than 2,000 creditors, with claims of more than $4 billion.
One of the losers was the Illinois state pension fund, which manages Mrs. Paoni's retirement money. The fund had bought $358,000 of Peregrine stock, all of it now worthless, although this had only an infinitesimal effect on Mrs. Paoni's holdings.
"Derivatives are like power tools," said Brian C. Lippey, managing director of Tokai Asia Ltd., an investment company in Hong Kong. "If you know how to use them, they're great. But if you don't know how to use them, you'll drill a hole in your head."
 
Salamet Loses Fares
 In the Indonesian town of Mojokerto, high finance began to close in on Salamet, a rickshaw driver.
Mr. Salamet (who like many Indonesians uses only one name) cannot read, so he had not learned from the newspaper that the Thai baht had plummeted and the Hong Kong market had plunged. But he was shocked when Agus Santoso came home.
Mr. Santoso, a slight 40-year-old neighbor, too frail a man to make a decent ditch-digger, had been the talk of the town. He had managed to learn how to drive a car and had got a job driving new cars to dealerships all over Indonesia.
The job paid $400 a month, a colossal sum that had tongues wagging all over the neighborhood. Mr. Salamet had dreamed that he, too, might learn to drive a car and follow in Mr. Santoso's lead.
But cars and car parts are imported, so they began to soar in price as the Indonesian rupiah lost value. Indonesians stopped buying new cars, and Mr. Santoso was dismissed and moved back home.
Meat and rice soared in price, and people in Mojokerto began to cut back to two meals a day. The poor began to walk instead of taking rickshaw rides, and Mr. Salamet's earnings fell by half, to less than $1 a day.
It is still unclear how severe the impact has been across the region, and the last few months have seen a statistical battle, as international organizations and aid agencies have issued a flood of reports offering widely divergent portraits of Asia in crisis. Invariably, the bleakest assessments have tended to get the most attention.
In Indonesia, for example, estimates by the Government and some aid agencies have suggested that the proportion of people living in poverty has risen to 40 percent or even 50 percent. But three carefully prepared World Bank reports released in January suggest that the increase has been much more modest, to 13.8 percent in 1998 from 11 percent in 1997.
As the World Bank sees it, "Rather than the universal devastation in poverty, employment, education and health so widely predicted and repeated in the media," the reality is increased poverty and a rising number of school dropouts, but not on the scale that aid agencies had suggested.
Still, although the scale is uncertain, everyone agrees that the crisis has left millions of people in great distress. And in Mr. Salamet's extended family, there is no doubt that life has taken a turn for the worse, even if it is difficult to measure.
Mr. Salamet took his wife, Yuti, and their baby daughter to visit his in-laws in a village near Mojokerto, and there they sat down beside a hut to chat. No food was served, for there was none.
The matriarch, Sambirah, who does not know her age but appears to be in her 80's, cradled her great-granddaughter in gnarled arms so frail that they seemed to rattle in the breeze, and for a moment her rheumy eyes glowed with pride. Mrs. Sambirah's pale mouth turned up at the corners, revealing two yellowed teeth, tusks emerging from an expanse of gum.
Then the tusks disappeared, and Mrs. Sambirah's eyes clouded. She sighed and described how she now pawns her sarongs so that the children do not starve.
"I can put up with it if I don't eat," she said. "But the children aren't used to it. They cry and cry."
 
A Pulp Tycoon's Woes
 Across the globe, on the 22d story of a skyscraper in Rio de Janeiro, Carlos Aguiar began to feel Indonesia's pain.
Mr. Aguiar, 53, president and chief executive of a pulp and paper company called Aracruz Cellulose S. A., is solid and plain-speaking. His hair is neatly parted on the side; his manner suggests a waltz rather than a samba. He worked his way up through the business, and his heart is not in Rio but 375 miles north in the company town of Aracruz, where most company timber plantations and pulp mills are.
Mrs. Paoni is among those with a stake in Aracruz. Her state pension fund bought into the Brinson Emerging Markets Fund, which in turn owned 102,000 shares of Aracruz preferred stock.
Many investors picked up Aracruz, for the paper industry was doing well in the mid-1990's and investment analysts were recommending the stock. But a problem was developing behind the scenes: Asian companies were building a quantity of enormous paper mills in Indonesia and other countries, dramatically increasing worldwide output. Global pulp capacity has soared to 35 million tons, from 25 million tons in 1990.
"Everybody saw Asia as being this great market," Mr. Aguiar said morosely. "China, India, they have enormous populations, and everybody was betting on them. That was why the Indonesians built these giant factories, because they were expecting that paper use in China would go from 17 kilos a person now, to 30, then to 100. It didn't happen."
On top of the glut, the devaluations in Asia meant that Indonesian companies lowered their prices. So the price of Aracruz pulp dropped to $420 a ton today from $850 a ton at its peak in 1995.
Pulp offered simply one example of a global slump in commodity prices. The world abruptly found itself bedeviled by excess capacity just as demand slumped, and so markets were awash with Russian steel, Chilean copper, American grain, Colombian coffee and Saudi oil.
Astonishingly, after one of the great booms in economic history, commodity prices on average are still 12 percent lower than the average in 1990. Metals on average now cost just two-thirds as much as eight years ago. After adjusting for inflation, oil costs less than it has for 25 years, since before the 1973 oil shock.
 
On Russia in Debt
 Falling commodity prices were making ripples around the world. They were especially brutal to Russia, whose main export is oil and gas, with the upshot that Russia's economy was falling apart.
Nobody much noticed at first. As with Asia a year earlier, it was too easy to be dazzled by the black Mercedes-Benzes, the diamond rings and the crowded discos. In 1997 Russia's stock market performed the best in the world, rising 149 percent in dollar terms, according to the calculations of the International Finance Corporation.
At GUM department store, Mr. Solomatin, the chairman, had been equally optimistic. He had sunk GUM's entire nest egg of liquid assets -- then worth $33 million -- into the stock and bond markets. It had seemed a good deal, for the bonds were paying interest rates of 100 percent or more.
But behind the scenes Russia's economy was showing severe strains, and many of them were unrelated to the Asian crisis. Tax collection was abysmal, Government budget deficits were growing, short-term debt was rising and President Boris N. Yeltsin's health seemed to be fading.
Asian countries had had problems with private debts, but Russia's problems were a bit different: the Government itself was addicted to debt. And with one-third of Government revenues coming from taxes on oil and gas that were steadily falling in price, it was difficult to foresee an improvement.
"I think the main reason for our crisis was not the Asian crisis," said Sergei V. Kiriyenko, who at 37 became Russian Prime Minister last spring. "It was that for years we had expenses higher than revenues."
More broadly, in contrast with Asia and Latin America, where markets were deeply rooted, Russia had only the flimsiest attachment to market principles and was being savaged by corruption and organized crime. Russia's top prosecutor, Yuri Skuratov, estimates that half of all Russia's commercial banks are mob-controlled and that criminals control about half of the gross national product.
Even as Russia's economy was quietly disintegrating, public support from the United States, Germany and other countries bolstered the impression that, as one economist put it, Russia was "too nuclear to go bust."
In July 1998, the Clinton Administration pushed the monetary fund for a major bailout, even though officials worried privately about whether it would work. In the end the fund worked out a $17.1 billion deal.
Perhaps Americans did not fully notice the crisis developing, but Russians did -- and their behavior undermines the notion that around the world it was only Western investment bankers who took poor locals to the cleaners. In Russia it was more the other way around. Russian capital flight steadily averaged $1 billion per month for the last three years, moving to places like Britain and Switzerland, which Russians felt they could trust. The first $4.8 billion installment of the fund bailout quickly disappeared as Russian oligarchs cashed out their rubles and took their money out of Russia.
As Charles H. Dallara of the Institute of International Finance in Washington described it, "So in a broad sense, you had the West, the I.M.F., Western banks and Western governments pouring money in the front door, and a select group of Russian citizens taking it out the back door."
Meanwhile the Russian legislature balked at many of the required reforms. Investors panicked, and on Aug. 17, computer screens flashed the bad news: the bailout had collapsed, and Russia stopped propping up the ruble and defaulted on domestic bonds. Overnight the bonds were virtually worthless, and stocks fell from dollars to pennies.
Still, Mr. Rubin says he has no regrets about the July bailout. "I'd do the same thing again," he said. "Given the stake we had in an economically viable Russia, it was a risk worth taking. It had a realistic chance."
GUM, which had been seeking listings on overseas stock exchanges, sent despondent faxes that day to its investment banker friends, postponing those plans indefinitely. The crisis sent the ruble tumbling to more than 18 to the dollar from 6, and so in effect all the imports in GUM (and most of the inventory is imported) tripled in price just as Russian consumers were losing their jobs.
The shock waves from the Russian default were felt around the world, partly because they shattered the assumption of an international safety net. The United States and the monetary fund had wanted to save Russia, and their failure sobered investors, sending them scurrying once more away from risk.
After the Russian crisis, the upheavals in international markets nearly destroyed Long-Term Capital Management, the most glamorous of America's hedge funds. More than a year earlier, the hedge funds had helped to trigger the financial crisis in Thailand, setting in motion a chain reaction that ultimately came back to take Long-Term Capital to the brink of collapse.
Long-Term Capital tumbled for the same reasons that Thailand did. American financiers may like to think of themselves as a world apart from Thai bankers, but there was a certain symmetry in what went wrong.
Thailand and Long-Term Capital were both victims of their own successes, which bred hubris and carelessness toward risks. They also both borrowed more money than they should have, and got into trouble when their bets went wrong. And, to be fair, both had a certain amount of bad luck.
 
On When to Bail Out
 The Russian default sideswiped Brazil, which for a time lost money from foreign reserves at the rate of $1 billion a day. So when Brazil wobbled, the United States braced itself. In November 1998 the Brazilian Government agreed to a $41.3 billion bailout package from the fund, which President Clinton arranged early, while Brazil was still solvent.
For the United States it was a remarkable turnaround. A bit more than a year earlier, the Clinton Administration had refused to contribute money to the Thai bailout and had prevented Japan from distributing aid. This time President Clinton himself led the intervention and the United States came up with $5 billion of the package.
Yet it was a bad bet. Despite widespread recognition that the Brazilian currency, the real, was overvalued, Washington made essentially the same mistake as it had in Russia: it trusted the legislators to quickly pass reforms that would reassure investors. Again the markets won, and in January Brazil was forced to float the real.
The collapse of the currency in turn forced Brazil to raise interest rates to try to attract foreign money -- the pattern that had occurred a year earlier in Indonesia or South Korea. And the high interest rates, in turn, are depressing Brazil's economy and casting a shadow over Argentina, Mexico and all of Latin America.
At Aracruz, Mr. Aguiar has solemnly watched the stock price fall, from $22 a share in the summer of 1997 to $11.81 yesterday. Over the years, he has taken desperate measures to compete globally, trimming Aracruz's work force by nearly two-thirds, cutting back on health and dental benefits, and turning to a cheaper contractor to run the company cafeteria. Just since the crisis hit in the fall, he has pared staffing another 10 percent, and he prays it will be enough.
On the other end of the globe, in the third floor boardroom of GUM, Mr. Solomatin has a grand view of Red Square -- and a terrible view of his company's future.
All the company's plans are on hold; the money in defaulted bonds is locked up; all the stock is now worth only $36 million, about the cost of the inventory.
That makes GUM a candidate for a takeover by a foreign company, and two European companies are said to have been eyeing it. But Mr. Solomatin sounds skeptical.
"Who would take us over?" he asked. "Investor fear of Russia is so great that nobody would consider buying us."

Global Contagion
 
MONDAY
The new economic landscape and the people it touched.
 
YESTERDAY
How the United States, seeking freer capital flow, knocked on poorer nations' doors and got a warm welcome.
 
TODAY
From Asia to Russia to Brazil, markets intertwined in sometimes dangerous ways.
 
TOMORROW
The autopsy of a world crisis, and what it tells some experts about avoiding future ills.
 
For past coverage of this issue, including the other articles in this series, visit The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/international
 
This series represents the work of 10 New York Times correspondents reporting from eight countries over five months. Major contributors to this article include Michael Wines in Russia and David E. Sanger in Washington. Also contributing were Diana Jean Schemo in Brazil; Jeff Gerth in Washington; David Barboza in Illinois; Edward Wyatt in New York, and Edmund L. Andrews in Germany.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Since the ruble was devalued last fall and opulent retail outlets went bankrupt, even fewer Moscow residents have had money to spare on sales in boutiques, despite offers of 70 percent off. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A1); YURI B. SOLOMATIN: GUM's chairman is still nattily dressed, but his store is bankrupt. "Overnight," he said, "we were made paupers." (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)(pg. A9); SAMBIRAH: Global financial problems have reached into remote corners of Indonesia, severely affecting the life of this peasant matriarch. With her son-in-law Salamet's rickshaw business under strain, she now pawns her sarongs so the children can eat. "I can put up with it if I don't eat," she said. "But the children aren't used to it. They cry and cry." (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)(pg. A9); CARLOS AGUIAR: Asia was seen as a great market, said this Brazilian paper tycoon, adding, "Everybody was betting on them." (pg. A9); CRISIS WITHIN: Just like its wooden doll souvenirs, seen her in GUM, Russia before the devaluation hid secrets behind a glossy facade. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Graphs: "The Path of a Crisis"
The emerging economies of Southeast Asia have seen the value of their stock markets decline dramatically since last summer in a crisis of confidence that spread to Russia and South America. In some countries, like Indonesia, overall values have fallen more than 75 percent. Here is a comparison of the estimated values of 12 nations' stock markets in June 1997 and December 1998, in billions of dollars, and the percent change in those values.
 
1. Thailand: JULY 1997
Thailand frees its currency, the baht, from the dollar and lets it float. The move sets off a crisis throughout the region.
 
2. Indonesia: OCT. 1997
The U.S. contributes $5 billion to an I.M.F.-led bailout, but rioting breaks out and President Suharto is forced to step down.
 
3. South Korea: NOV. 1997
Investor panic leads to a plunging currency, a new Government and the biggest I.M.F. bailout in history.
 
4. Russia: JUNE 1998
Investors begin dumping the ruble. On Aug. 17 it is devalued, and a market panic spreads around the world.
 
5. Brazil: JAN. 1999
Brazil devalues the real, which slides more than 35 percent as the Government raises interest rates to halt the flight of dollars.
 
Estimated value of the stock markets in billions of dollars, comparing June 1997 to Dec. 1998
 
Russia: 84-12: -86%
Indonesia: 111-22: -80%
Philippines: 74-34: -54%
Thailand: 60-35: -42%
Argentina: 56-44: -21%
Malaysia: 282-74: -74%
South Korea: 157-111: -29%
Brazil: 311-154: -50%
Hong Kong: 427-348: -19%
Germany: 766-1,181: +54%
Japan: 3,312-2,448: -26%
United States: 8,920-11,721: +31%
(Source: M.S.C.I.)(pg. A8)
 
"Tumbling Prices"
The Commodity Research Bureau Index of all commodity prices. The graph tracks the monthly prices of all commodites from 1995-1998, which indicates a big drop-off. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series 

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (87%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GUM OAO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA; RUSSIA; THAILAND; INDONESIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; BRAZIL (95%); INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (87%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ALDEHYDES (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); POVERTY RATES (63%); STOCK OPTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



374 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan BondPlan Fails to Impress Markets

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 16

 BODY:
The markets conceded only a small victory to the Government today after it announced that it would resume buying a small amount of the bonds it issues.
The bond markets here have been racked in recent weeks by the Government's financial woes, including bank bailouts, expensive stimulus packages, emergency loans, budget deficits and a ballooning debt burden. Investors have dumped bonds over the last four months, and Japanese politicians have been watching with trepidation as the yields on long-term Japanese bonds have tripled, threatening to snuff out any early recovery from the worst recession since the end of World War II. 
 The Government's move today failed to quell general concerns over the bond market and rising long-term interest rates.
"It's a token gesture in the face of political demand," said William D. Campbell, fixed-income analyst at J. P. Morgan here. "But we don't see much impact on the economy."
Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond settled slightly lower today, falling 15 basis points, or hundredths of a point, to 1.99 percent.
The yen noticeably weakened, partly on remarks by Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa that an agency that manages public pension funds would buy bonds. And the influential Vice Finance Minister Eisuke Sakakibara seemed to reverse position when he said late Monday that he would support a weaker yen. Mr. Miyazawa also endorsed a weaker yen, which touched 117.50 to the dollar at one point here today. The yen declined further in New York trading, settling at 118.74 to the dollar, a sharp fall in value from 114.21 on Friday.
Although Japanese interest rates are very low by world standards, their recent rise makes borrowing more expensive at home, further depressing an already feeble economy. Rates shot up last fall when Mr. Miyazawa said the Government would stop using the pension management agency to buy bonds. In December and in February, investors dumped bonds -- sending their prices down and their yields, which move in the opposite direction, soaring.
Worries over interest rates have also affected the bond market in New York, sending their prices on Friday down sharply, though Treasuries reversed course and rose today.
Higher rates in Japan could lure capital from United States Treasury debt, as Japanese investors see increasingly attractive returns at home and become skittish about taking risks that the yen will strengthen and reduce the value of their dollar-denominated investments.
Some of that began happening last month as investors here sold bonds and other holdings in the United States and elsewhere to bring profits back to cover losses in preparation for settling books at the end of the fiscal year on March 31. One of American officials' worst nightmares is a selloff of United States Treasury bonds by cash-needy Japanese corporations.
"Japan is a natural exporter of capital, and any hiccup in outflow can have a disruptive effect," said Jeffrey D. Young, economist at Salomon Smith Barney here. "We see the U.S. Treasury yields rising and the yen strong."
By some measures, Japan's bond market is set sometime this year to become the world's largest, surpassing that of the United States -- though much of that reflects the yen's strength. By most accounts, the United States bond market is still the largest, but the trend seems clear. Budget surpluses in Washington would reduce the amount of bonds the Treasury has to issue, while growing burdens in Japan mean several more years of money-raising and a swelling bond market.
Today's move caught the markets off guard. When word leaked out early this morning of the impending announcement, buyers lined up before the bond market opened. But the buying spree was short-lived as investors learned that the purchases would last only until March and amount to 200 billion yen, or $1.7 billion, a month -- less than one-sixth of the Government's monthly purchases last year.
Analysts said the move appeared aimed at appeasing financial institutions and companies sitting on huge bond losses that they will have to absorb at the end of the fiscal year.
Japan's policy makers have grown increasingly worried about the nation's public finances. The budget deficit this year is rising to 10 percent of output, and its accumulated debt is expected to exceed the total size of the economy. As early as 2000, the Government will have to pay back a portion of postal savings deposits worth 100 trillion yen, now about $850 billion. Officials say that about half of those deposits will be renewed, leaving roughly $425 billion to be repaid in the first two years of the new century.
To pay for all this, analysts say the Government has to turn to the bond markets to raise money, and the idea that Japan this year has to raise more than $500 billion has roiled the markets. Another way to raise money is to sell part of its current bond holdings, but that could roil the debt markets further.
On Friday, the nation's central bank said it would bring the overnight lending rate down to a thread above zero. The bond markets did not settle down, however, and the Finance Ministry began to worry, analysts say. Some are calling the purchases a "price-keeping operation," or P.K.O., an attempt to support the market with Government money.
"We've entered the silly season," Mr. Campbell of J. P. Morgan said. "It's a symbolic P.K.O. for February and March. What it really implies is a window-dressing operation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); RECESSION (76%); TRENDS (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (66%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL KIICHI MIYAZAWA (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



375 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Doubts About Tax Cuts

 BODY:
One of the hardiest perennials of modern American politics is back. We speak of the new predictions that Republican moderates will any moment now seize control of their party. As in the past, these moderates, mostly from the Northeast and Midwest, complain that the conservative stranglehold on the party threatens its chances in the next election. Many urge Republicans to forget about culture wars and return to the genial tax-cutting conservatism of Ronald Reagan. The advice is attractive, but its fiscal logic may be outdated. Grass-roots feedback suggests that the G.O.P. needs to re-examine its worship of sweeping tax cuts like that being promoted this week by the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott.
In some respects, Republicans are suffering from their own past success. President Clinton speaks the words of compassion, but his domestic program is the essence of conservatism. How else to describe spending three-quarters of the 15-year surplus of $4 trillion to pay down the national debt and conserve Social Security and Medicare? Republican theorists and their supporters in Congress may think they have a better way, perhaps even a more elegant intellectual way, of restructuring both of these solid old programs. But the public appears to be in no mood to transform them radically along the lines suggested by the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation. 
 At a meeting of Republican moderates last weekend in Miami, two Northeastern Governors had some scathing words for their colleagues, especially those who made the demonization of President Clinton a centerpiece of the party's message. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey said Americans perceived the party as "mean-spirited" and "vindictive," while John Rowland of Connecticut said: "I will report to you that the good news is that the rich people and the business people still like us. But that's about it." Yet at a citizens' meeting in a pro-Reagan suburb of Detroit, Senator Lott once again pushed for an across-the-board tax cut that would overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest 10 percent of taxpayers.
Public opinion has moved since President Reagan carried the area in 1980 and 1984. The polls show that Americans are not clamoring about high taxes right now, in part because those who are paying higher taxes are doing so as a result of their income having grown substantially in the current boom. Perhaps more important, priorities have shifted, and voters have redefined fiscal prudence. Even Alan Greenspan has urged Congress to pay down the national debt rather than pass the money out in tax cuts. Unlike the late 1970's, when Mr. Reagan and the Congressional Republicans embraced tax cuts as a cure-all, there is little need to stimulate the economy.
Some moderate Republicans have already rejected the across-the-board tax cuts advocated by Mr. Lott, pushing instead for targeted tax breaks for married couples and perhaps a cut in the estate tax. If more join them, there might be a chance of a bipartisan tax-cut deal with the White House, which wants its own limited tax breaks for school construction, long-term health care and care of the disabled.
With the Republican margin so slight in the House, and many independent-minded Senate Republicans joining in the desire for paying down debt, the across-the-board tax cut is in deep political trouble only a few weeks after it was proclaimed as the salvation in the post-impeachment era. Republicans are also saying they want to spend more money on defense and education in the next few years. These trends could mute the tax-cut battle cry in the next year and give moderates a chance to promote a more nuanced fiscal policy for the G.O.P. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); MEDICARE (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TRENT LOTT (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



376 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
U.S. Treasuries Rally Sharply On Policy Reversal by Japan

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
In a day of volatile trading, bond prices shot sharply higher yesterday, making up all of Friday's losses and then some.
The reversal of Friday's selloff had to be painful for many bond traders and some investors, who had decided the selloff was a signal that interest rates were moving higher. 
 The reversal also left some analysts confused about where rates were going. "I am still optimistic about interest rates," said Gerald A. Guild, senior vice president of the taxable fixed-income department at Advest Inc. "But I think going through 5.4 percent was quite significant," he added, referring to the top of the three-month trading range that the yield of the 30-year bond broke through on Friday.
The spark for yesterday's rally came from the same source as the impetus for Friday's selling -- Japan, which is infuriating many investors by making sudden switches in policy.
On Friday, Japanese officials disappointed investors by saying that the Government did not plan to buy any more Japanese Government bonds. American investors thought this would be a way to help reverse the rise in Japanese interest rates, which has been undermining the American bond market by attracting investors away.
Yesterday, Japan partly reversed that decision, announcing that the Government would buy more Government bonds.
Another apparent reversal of recent Japanese policy also helped send the Japanese yen down sharply against the dollar. Yesterday, Vice Finance Minister Eisuke Sakakibara said he would accept a weaker yen, backing away from his support of the current value of the yen against the dollar. The dollar rally also helped attract investors back to the American bond market, helping that rally, analysts said.
In late trading, the price of the 30-year bond rose 1 5/32 , to 98 21/32 . The yield, which moves in the oppositie direction, dropped to 5.34 percent, from 5.42 percent on Friday. Friday's yield was the highest since August. In the currency market, the yen dropped 3.9 percent, to 118.65 against the dollar, from 114.05 on Friday.
Michael Cloherty, market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said that while bond investors had to sort out what was going on in Japan they also had to await next week's testimony by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. In appearances before the House and Senate Banking Committees, he will make his official, semiannual report to Congress on the central bank's interest rate policy.
Investors will be waiting to see if the Fed thinks that the current, unexpectedly fast pace of economic growth is worrying enough to consider raising interest rates. If that is the signal, rates should move higher. The fact that strong growth has foreclosed a chance of another Fed rate cut has already helped send rates higher the last two months.
But N. Graham Allen, the managing director for global fixed income at Wells Capital Management in Los Angeles, said that Mr. Greenspan "is not going to surprise us" because the Fed is on hold right now. The central bank, he said, cannot decide to raise interest rates until it has more information on how much a drag the recession in Latin American will have on the United States economy.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.878	97.740	High Rate	4.44%	4.47%	Coupon Yield	4.55%	4.63%	Low Rate	4.33%	4.34%	Median Rate	4.43%	4.46%	Total applied for	$28,705,551	$26,861,730	Accepted	$11,650,048	$11,154,945	Noncompetitive	$1,339,308	$1,217,878	
Both issues are dated Feb. 18, 1999. The three-month bills mature on May 20, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 19, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Oct. 1998 through Feb 1999. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



377 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Mother: Young, Single And Heroic

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
WHO says a superhero needs rippling muscles to beat back the forces of evil? Does the crusader really need a cape to soar through the heavens and come to the rescue? For that matter, who says he has to be a he?
Katherine Arnoldi has spent years drawing the crash-bang adventures of a skinny heroine whose only costume is a black skirt and striped top. Her superheroine has a sidekick -- her infant daughter. She also has plenty of close calls with death -- working among toxic chemicals in a factory or being beaten by an abusive boyfriend. Her story is about the daily down-to-earth hassles and heroics of a teen-age single mom. But as in any good comic book, her heroine finally gets her chance to fly. So what if she doesn't duck into a phone booth for a quick change? All she needed was her college acceptance letter and she floated off the page. 
 "The Amazing 'True' Story of a Teen-age Single Mom" (Hyperion) is mostly her own tale of becoming a single mother when she was 17 in the early 1970's. The graphic novel recounts the shame others heaped on her, the dreary jobs she took to support her daughter, and her brushes with bad bosses and boyfriends. At its core is the story of her own unyielding -- though at times barely sustained -- hope and courage that allowed her to come into her own in college. It is a message she now spreads in occasional visits to programs for teen-age mothers around the city where she shares her story and book with young women who had to put aside their childhood dreams.
"I thought only rich people went to college," she said. "Sometimes I say my book is a support group you can hold in your hand. I'm just grateful it's in a lot of hands that are maybe isolated."
Ms. Arnoldi, 46, started her book in the mid-1980's, when she was living on the Lower East Side with her daughter, Stacie, after she graduated from the University of Arkansas and began working at different jobs. Her own faith in education had already prompted her to start visiting high-school equivalency programs with stacks of college application forms and college guides.
"A lot of times I would give them the forms and the women would tell me, 'Yeah, but I have to go now,' " she recalled. "They would get up and leave. So I felt maybe if I told them my story it would be different."
She started handing out copies of scenes and pages from her book, which was then a work in progress. In her drawings, as in her life, there were times when faith and hope looked like tiny compartments in her brain, almost squeezed into insignificance by more mundane or pressing concerns.
"There was more room in my brain for the names of the people in the 'Beverly Hillbillies,' " she joked. "Why did hope live? I didn't feel worthy. But I knew my daughter was worthy. I brought that up and held it in front of me."
She raised her hand to her face.
"I moved forward, like this," she said. "Here's my child. I know my child is worthy. I think I trusted that."
She persevered to see Stacie graduate from college and become a research assistant who is applying to medical school.
But she had less success at first with publishers, who passed on the book, thinking there was no market for it. "Oh, the country's 25 million single mothers are not a market," she said. "To me, that's just stupidity. If single mothers decided to boycott Pampers, people would take notice."
PEOPLE are noticing Ms. Arnoldi now. She figures somebody has to speak on behalf of mothers who have been vilified in the national debate over social policy. If policy makers want to talk about individual responsibility, she said, what about the responsibility of colleges and the government to offer adequate day care and housing for single mothers?
"Single mothers have been portrayed as welfare queens without any personal responsibility," she said. "Like, it wasn't the savings and loans that caused the recession. It was single moms."
A baby was making goo-goo sounds recently, as Ms. Arnoldi shared her story with a group of single mothers studying for their high-school equivalency diplomas at a Bronx community center. The young women told her they wanted to study computers, child care, business.
Ms. Arnoldi handed out copies of her book. Then she helped the young women fill out postcards that they would send to colleges asking for application forms. Behind her was a poster. It read, "Anyone Can Be a Leader."
"For 20 cents you can change your life," she said as she handed out the postcards. "It changed mine."
She sounded just super.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine Arnoldi, superhero. (Rob Schoenbaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: AMAZING 'TRUE' STORY OF A TEEN-AGE SINGLE MOM, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGLE PARENTS (91%); FAMILY (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); WOMEN (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); LITERATURE (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (50%); 

PERSON: ARNOLDI, KATHERINE; GONZALEZ, DAVID KATHERINE ARNOLDI (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



378 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Air Fares to Europe Are Cheap And May Stay Low for a While

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
With international business travel weakening because of the economic slowdown overseas, and with more flights scheduled across the North Atlantic, most major airlines have aggressively cut fares to Europe, exceeding in many cases their previous winter sales.
New Yorkers can get flights to London for as little as $228 plus tax round trip, for example, while San Franciscans can go to Paris and back for $348. The sharply discounted air fares are being offered in dozens of American cities for travel to a variety of European destinations. 
 The number of destinations is indeed more extensive than ever, airline officials say, and the period for which the fares are valid extends far beyond the few weeks typically available in winter sales.
"In 29 years with the company," said John W. Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways, "I've never seen fares so low so early as this year, or for travel so long into spring."
The driving force behind the discounting is overcapacity. Despite strong demand throughout most of last year, when many trans-Atlantic flights were added, the airlines now find themselves with too many seats to fill in the slow winter season.
"With all that capacity when business travel to Europe is declining, you can just about name your price," said Michael Boult, a vice president at Rosenbluth International, the travel management company.
And air fares for leisure travelers may remain low, at least in the short term, as a result of the labor dispute between American Airlines and its pilots. After a weeklong disruption of its flights because of the pilots' sickout, American, part of the AMR Corporation, is expected to introduce bargain fares on both international and domestic flights, to try to lure back passengers. American currently offers a range of discount fares, including a $248 round trip from Chicago to Paris.
British Airways set off the latest discounting late last week, with fares as low as $228 round trip to London from New York, Newark, Boston and Philadelphia, and similar deals from 18 other United States cities. Round trip to London from San Francisco or Denver is $328, while round trip to London from Los Angeles, San Diego or Phoenix is $358. Travelers have until next Wednesday to buy these tickets, and they must depart by March 31 and return by April 30.
Most United States airlines have matched or almost matched, British Airways. United Airlines, part of the UAL Corporation, is offering such round-trip fares as New York to London for $228, San Francisco to Paris for $348 and Los Angeles to Amsterdam for $398. Discount fares at Continental Airlines include New York or Newark to Paris for $248 and to Rome for $298. Among the fares from Delta Air Lines are Los Angeles to Paris flights for $358. All such tickets are not refundable, the prices do not include taxes and restrictions apply.
The trans-Atlantic discounts have their roots in part in the economic troubles in Asia and South America. Although Europe is not in recession, many American businesses have cut employee travel worldwide, and several airlines have reduced or eliminated flights to Asia and redeployed those planes to Europe.
United Airlines, for example, which has extensive routes to the Pacific, had an 8.8 percent increase in trans-Atlantic traffic last month over January 1998, but its capacity across the Atlantic grew 14.9 percent, partly because it had added planes to its European routes that had previously flown to Asia. Other airlines made similar moves last year and did not cut back on flights in the slower winter season.
Last month, Virgin Atlantic briefly offered $198 round-trip fares between New York and London. "Those fares obviously speak to a lot of capacity in the market," said Gareth Edminson-Jones, a Virgin spokesman. Virgin's current fares, available through next Wednesday, are $228 from New York or Newark to London and $328 from San Francisco or Los Angeles to London.
Trans World Airlines has $298 round-trip fares between Washington and Madrid and between Dallas/ Forth Worth and Paris; tickets must be purchased by this Friday. The regular 21-day advance-purchase fares on the routes are $820 and $640, respectively. T.W.A. appears to offer the most generous terms, allowing travel as late as April 30.
Last week U S Airways offered $298 round-trip fares from Philadelphia to London or Amsterdam, and $398 from Los Angeles to Madrid.
There may be discounts this summer, airline officials say, possibly in August, when business travel slows for the traditional European vacation season, but the discounts will be modest if the American economy remains strong. Joseph Buhler, chairman of the European Travel Commission, recently forecast that almost 11.6 million Americans will visit Europe this year, more than half of them this summer, topping last year's record of 11 million.
The Asian economic crisis is not the only reason for excess capacity. Because almost all airlines had high passenger loads to Europe last summer and fall, and because the struggle for market share over the heavily traveled Atlantic is particularly intense, most airlines either did not bother to reduce the number of flights, or cut just a token few.
One reason the airlines miscalculated, perhaps, was that no firm figures were available on the cuts in corporate travel. But harbingers existed. A survey in October of 450 of the Fortune 1,000 companies, done by the National Business Travel Association, found that 56 percent had cut the number of employees who travel, and that they planned to reduce overall travel 17 percent. "Some airlines didn't believe us," said Norman Sherlock, the association's executive director, "but they do now."
In an effort to show that its fares are a bargain, T.W.A. dusted off some fares from the past. "When we introduced our trans-Atlantic service in 1946," Mark Abels, a T.W.A. spokesman said, "the New York-to-Paris round trip cost $675 -- the equivalent of $5,273.34 now.
Mr. Boult of Rosenbluth has in his office a 1957 advertisement for Pan American's new Clipper service -- $453 for a round-trip economy flight from New York to London, $489 from New York to Paris. "That was a lot of money then," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: American Airlines said operations were almost normal yesterday with most pilots on the job, including this one who was making a preflight inspection of his plane at Logan International Airport in Boston. Article, page 6. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); AMR CORP (83%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



379 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Investment Group Buys The National Enquirerand Star Magazine

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
A Manhattan investment firm has purchased the company that owns The National Enquirer and Star magazine and hired the head of the nation's third-largest magazine publisher to run and expand it.
The investment group, Evercore Capital Partners L.L.C., headed by former Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman, announced yesterday that it had acquired the publications for $294 million from American Media Inc., and that David J. Pecker, the president and chief executive officer of Hachette Filipacchi Magazines, a unit of Lagardere Group, would head the company and receive an equity stake. American Media is a public company whose two biggest stockholders are the venture capital firm Boston Ventures and MacFadden Holdings Inc. 
 Mr. Pecker's goal, along with his new partners at Evercore, is to extend the National Enquirer brand to an array of new ventures that may include more television programming, new magazines -- such as Enquirer spinoffs for teen-agers and Hispanic readers -- and on-line services. The company owns Country Weekly and The Weekly World News.
The move comes after years of declining circulation for The Enquirer as Americans have begun to see reporting that might once have been considered salacious or sensational appear in mainstream publications.
The National Enquirer has a circulation of 2,300,000, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, down from its 1977 high of 5 million.
The news weekly regularly runs articles about celebrity diets and hardly an issue goes by without some sort of swipe at Monica Lewinsky ("Monica's Gay Secret -- Shocking Report From Inside the White House"), but in a quest to raise a sagging circulation, it has tried to run more legitimate articles. Steve Coz, the editor of The Enquirer, said yesterday that he had tried to make the weekly newspaper more appealing to readers, most recently asking Roseanne Barr to guest-edit the newest issue. Ms. Barr once guest-edited an issue of The New Yorker.
The transaction included the assumption of $473 million in debt.
The venture is not without financial risk. American Media's total revenue for the nine months ended in December was $222.2 million, of which advertising was $16.9 million, or a relatively small 7.6 percent. Operating income for those six months was $43.2 million, but the company had $35.6 million in interest expense and $8.3 million in taxes. The company had net income of $569,000, down from $6.8 million in the period a year earlier.
Bishop Cheen, an analyst who follows the company for First Union Capital Markets, said American Media had failed to move aggressively in the changed news environment. "They were going to buy Canadian tabloids, go down to Mexico," he said. "But they never did anything with the company. So they shouldered the costs of newsprint without any economy of scale. And the ad economy has been great, but they didn't participate because advertising is such a small part of its revenues."
Mr. Pecker called The Enquirer and Star "the two most undermarketed and underpromoted newspapers in this country."
In his decade as president of Hachette magazines, Mr. Pecker earned something of a reputation as an enfant terrible with an arduous eye on the bottom line. He cut editorial staffs, slashed budgets and offered deep discounts to choice advertisers. He posed for photographs astride motorcycles or with cigars dangling from his lips. And during his tenure, he built the magazine publisher into a competitor in the American marketplace, promoting Elle magazine in such a way that it has leaped over Harper's Bazaar and now trails only one women's magazine, Vogue, in both circulation and advertising revenue.
Mr. Pecker began several divisions within Hachette, including Hachette New Media and Hachette Productions, which produces films like the Isaac Mizrahi documentary "Unzipped" and television programming. And he attracted a burst of publicity by introducing George, which is edited by John F. Kennedy Jr.
The purchase is Evercore's second as a private equity investor -- its first was a company that sells insulation products -- so it is clear that it could use Mr. Pecker's assets as a magazine publisher. Mr. Altman is one of the firm's three founders and continues to be a partner. He did not return a phone call to his home seeking comment. Mr. Pecker would not disclose the percentage of his equity stake.
Mr. Pecker's colleagues at Hachette were surprised, but one executive said that Mr. Pecker has long been looking for a move that would give him private equity. "Hachette is a very closely held company and there's no chance of ownership," one Hachette executive said.
Mr. Pecker will leave Hachette on March 31. Following his departure, the day-to-day operations of Hachette Filipacchi will be overseen by Daniel Filipachhi, the chairman of Hachette Filipacchi Magazines. No successor has been announced.
 
http://www.nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: 
Photo
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMB (PAR) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC; NATIONAL ENQUIRER; STAR (MAGAZINE); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI MAGAZINES; LAGARDERE GROUP; BOSTON VENTURES; MACFADDEN HOLDINGS INC; AMERICAN MEDIA INC AMERICAN MEDIA INC (84%); LAGARDERE SCA (83%); EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (72%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC; NATIONAL ENQUIRER; STAR (MAGAZINE); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI MAGAZINES; LAGARDERE GROUP; BOSTON VENTURES; MACFADDEN HOLDINGS INC; AMERICAN MEDIA INC AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); AUDITS (66%); NEWSPRINT (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; ALTMAN, ROGER C; PECKER, DAVID J ROGER ALTMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



380 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Political Landscape Altered, Labor Sees Gains for Its Agenda

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, Feb. 16

 BODY:
With their supporters among Republican moderates likely to play a more forceful role in the new Congress, union leaders who are gathered here for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s winter meeting predicted today that labor would make substantial gains this year in advancing its legislative wish list.
The labor leaders say the narrowing of the Republican majority in the House to five votes will give their pet proposals, including a higher minimum wage and a patients' bill of rights, a better chance than in the two previous Congresses since the Republicans took control in the 1994 elections. 
 "I think we can get more done this year," said Peggy Taylor, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s chief lobbyist. "With the margin so close in the House and the Democrats feeling so strong and the Republicans so desperate to get something done in this Congress, I think there's a lot of opportunity."
The labor leaders, meeting here for four days at the Fontainebleau Hotel, have put forward a long list of legislative goals that range from the eminently attainable to the highly improbable. Among them: an increase in the minimum wage to $6.15 an hour, from the current $5.15; a requirement that part-time workers be paid the same hourly rate as full-time employees doing the same work; the hiring of 100,000 additional teachers to reduce class size, as proposed by President Clinton, and defeat of the Republican proposal that would create individual retirement investment accounts within the Social Security system.
With the Republicans' majority in the House now trimmed, and with Republican moderates reaching out to labor, union officials predict that Congress is unlikely to throw them on the defensive as in the last two years. In the last Congress, Republicans not only pushed, unsuccessfully, for legislation to limit labor's ability to use dues for political purposes but also held investigative hearings on a variety of unions, especially the teamsters.
"Our hope is there'll be less need for defensive work," John J. Sweeney, the federation's president, said in an interview. "Our hope is we'll be able to pursue a pro-active agenda.
"If the Republicans have some sense and want to turn things around a little bit," Mr. Sweeney said of the party's political fortunes, "they'll be looking for some pieces of legislation. The question is whether they want to deal with it seriously or just as face-savers. If they're willing to deal with it seriously, then, fine, we want to be at the table when it comes to a working-families agenda."
Randy Johnson, vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said in a telephone interview that unions still faced tough going in a Republican-led Congress. "A more realistic estimate of what will happen is gridlock," Mr. Johnson said, "although there'll be a few minor victories on their side, like the minimum wage."
Labor unions hope to win a minimum-wage increase this year or next, as they did in 1996, when many Congressional Republicans, feeling vulnerable in an election year, voted for it. "In a very successful economic period," Mr. Sweeney said, raising the minimum above the current $5.15 "is a way of showing that workers should share in the economic progress."
Corporate lobbyists maintain that a higher minimum wage will raise business costs and so cause employers to lay off low-paid workers, or at least hire fewer of them.
"The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is clearly going to run with it because it's a terrific political issue," Mr. Johnson said. "Unfortunately the vast majority of economists agree that raising the minimum wage destroys jobs. But the workers who will lose jobs get lost in the politics of the issue."
Mr. Johnson conceded that unions would probably also gain some limited version of a patients' bill of rights. That legislation would give members of health maintenance organizations greater rights to use emergency rooms and to appeal H.M.O. decisions, and would bar "gag rules" by which managed care companies limit what doctors can tell patients about treatment alternatives.
But labor officials say their chief legislative priority is to strengthen Social Security and to kill the Republican proposal for privatizing part of it with individual accounts. Tonight the federation sponsored a town meeting in Miami where dozens of retired union members attacked the proposal.
"Having those accounts is going to end up costing more," because of administrative expenses, "and it ends up taking money away from benefits," said Sandra Feldman, president of the American Federation of Teachers and chairwoman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s social policy committee. "And where there are people who are less sophisticated about making investment decisions, they might lose their money and be left without a safety net."
As for other issues, several unions are pushing trade legislation. The steelworkers, for instance, want tougher restrictions on unfairly priced imported steel. And labor officials say President Clinton might push again for fast-track trade legislation, whose renewal was blocked by unions last year on the ground that it risked a loss of American jobs to countries that did not bear the costs of the kinds of labor and environmental protections that prevail in the United States. But Mr. Sweeney said he thought Mr. Clinton might submit a reformulated proposal this year to include labor, human rights and environmental provisions favored by the union movement.
"I think the President has gotten the message," he said.
Another issue is part-time workers. Union officials have voiced frustration in recent years that despite an economic boom, the percentage of American workers with health insurance and pensions has dropped, especially among part-timers. Concerned that workers who do not hold permanent, full-time jobs are getting short shrift, the labor federation is pushing a bill to require that part-time workers receive the same hourly pay as full-time employees doing the same work. In addition, the federation wants a law requiring proportional benefits for part-time workers -- that is, an employee who works 20 hours a week, say, would be guaranteed half the pension of someone working 40 hours a week.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999



381 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Arts Agency Plans to Spread the Money Around

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 17

 BODY:
President Clinton's proposed budget, delivered to Congress on Feb. 1, included an increase of more than 50 percent in appropriations for the National Endowment for the Arts, and in two speeches here this week, the new chairman of the agency, William J. Ivey, discussed publicly for the first time his plans for spending the extra money. Mr. Ivey was appointed to succeed Jane Alexander, whose stormy tenure ended in October 1997.
Mr. Clinton's $150 million request for the endowment represents a $52 million increase over the current budget for the agency, which has been embattled throughout the 1990's and was until last year targeted for dissolution by Congressional conservatives. 
 Some $50 million of the added money is earmarked for Challenge America, a project addressing lawmakers' concerns that the endowment's support has been unevenly distributed around the nation and that its financing for individual artists whose work many conservatives found offensive came at the expense of improving access to the arts for all Americans.
On Tuesday at a luncheon for business leaders and arts administrators at the Chicago Economics Club, and that evening at a public address at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Mr. Ivey said that Challenge America would target money for programs in five areas: arts education, youth at risk, access to the arts, cultural and heritage preservation and community arts partnerships.
"It does coincide with the Congressional agenda," Mr. Ivey said in an interview, "but it is also a completely legitimate program of activities for the agency to take on."
The request for added funds comes when partisan antagonism in Washington is at a peak. Mr. Clinton's proposed budget has already been criticized by some Republican lawmakers as a return to what they have called big-government liberal spending. A substantial increase in arts funding, a sensitive issue in Congress since 1989 despite the endowment's relative insignificance as a budget item, could raise hackles again.
Asked if the President's budget request was realistic, Mr. Ivey said: "It's hard to tell. Now that we seem to be in general agreement about the survival of the agency with flat funding, the question is whether significant opposition will crop up as we try to move forward. There will always be criticism of and opposition to the endowment," he continued, "but my sense is that the bipartisan center will support an increase."
The new funds would be distributed in four ways:
* About 1,000 communities in underserved areas of the country would receive grants of between $5,000 and $10,000 for specific arts projects.
* About 150 arts institutions would receive grants of between $50,000 and $150,000 for programs to expand their community involvement.
* Between 10 and 20 unspecified partnership programs involving national arts organizations and Federal agencies would receive funding.
* $20 million would go to state agencies for arts education, regional touring programs that bring performing arts to underserved communities, after-school arts programs and organizations devoted to folk art and cultural heritage preservation.
In addition, Mr. Ivey said, next year the agency will ask Congress for additional funds to help stabilize arts organizations with support for their own endowments, technological and management consulting and new programs for developing individual and corporate philanthropy. The details of that request will depend on a study of arts organizations that the agency is conducting.
The National Endowment's current budget is $98 million, down from a high of $176 million in 1992. In 1995, when Republicans assumed control of the House of Representatives, they marshaled their outrage over endowment grants that in the late 1980's supported controversial works, like Andres Serrano's photograph of a crucifix immersed in urine, and slashed the agency's budget by 40 percent for the next year, planning to dissolve it entirely. The Senate kept it alive.
But last year the political attitude toward the agency changed for several reasons: Congress had curtailed the endowment's ability to give grants to individual artists, some conservatives had been satisfied by the budget cuts, and last June a Supreme Court ruling upheld a 1990 law requiring the endowment to consider "general standards of decency and respect for the diverse beliefs and values of the American public" in its grant making. In July the House approved this year's budget, ending the threat of dissolution.
In his sold-out address at the museum on Tuesday, Mr. Ivey received a warm welcome but also a reminder that his position as the nation's leading advocate for the arts is not without political pressure from both sides.
Four leading arts administrators in Chicago also spoke at the event -- Abena Joan P. Brown, president of the ETA Creative Arts Foundation; Carlos Tortolero, executive director of the Mexican Fine Arts Museum; Nick Rabkin, program officer at the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and Robert Fitzpatrick, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art.
The administrators said the endowment, under Ms. Alexander, had submitted too easily to Congressional pressure. "I can only hope that the last shall be first," Ms. Brown said. "And the arts have been last for too long."
Mr. Tortolero added: "The arts have been playing not to lose, and we have to play to win."
All four said the endowment needed to re-enter the business of making grants to individual artists, the sentiment that received the loudest applause of the night.
Mr. Ivey said the time was not quite at hand for that, but that he had "unwavering" support for the endowment's eventual return to grants for individuals.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William J. Ivey of the National Endowment for the Arts. (Guido Cassetta for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (93%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (93%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (93%); ENDOWMENTS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEBER, BRUCE; IVEY, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



382 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Looks for a Way to Stem Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Feb. 17

 BODY:
With the economy slowing and street crime rising, President Carlos Saul Menem has introduced a series of bills to Congress to stem the flow of illegal immigration from Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru.
Congressional debate on the legislation has not yet begun, but the bills have already created tensions between Argentina and its poorer neighbors. And they have prompted criticism from the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church and human rights groups that the Government is unleashing a xenophobic campaign to make scapegoats out of poor, defenseless people. 
 But by raising an issue with widespread appeal, the ruling Justicialist party may succeed in putting the opposition on the defensive in a presidential election year.
The debate over the bills also highlights the growing rate of migration of peasants and workers across borders throughout South America, raising a potentially potent and divisive issue in not only Argentina, but also Chile, Uruguay and Venezuela.
The new laws would impose fines up to $500,000 on individuals or companies who employ illegal aliens. They would give the Interior Minister the power to deport any alien sentenced to more than two years in prison. Anyone arrested for helping foreigners enter the country illegally would be subject to prison sentences of 5 to 20 years.
Statistics about illegal immigration here are imprecise, and the Government and private groups disagree on the dimensions of the problem. But experts seem to agree that the Argentina has recently seen an increase in the immigration of poor Bolivians, Paraguayans and Peruvians, a phenomenon that dates from at least 30 years ago. Some analysts have estimated up to a million Peruvians live outside Peru, mainly in the United States, Argentina and Chile.
According to the latest Argentine census figures, the number of Paraguayans here increased, from 154,000 in 1960 to 250,000 in 1991. In that period, the number of Peruvians increased, from 5,100 to 16,000. Experts say the trend is accelerating as the regional economy slows in response to the Asian and Brazilian financial crises.
In the northern provinces, migrants frequently do backbreaking work like picking cotton and strawberries. In the cities they shine shoes and do other odd jobs. The alien migrants are rarely unionized, and they are generally paid much less than Argentines.
An opposition Congressman, Juan Pablo Cafiero, has called the move to tighten immigration laws "a racist campaign." He added, "What they are trying to do is blame our social problems on the immigrants."
According to Mr. Cafiero, the 70,000 or so immigrants in the Buenos Aires metropolitan region make up less than 2 percent of the workforce, so they cannot be blamed for an unemployment rate has risen slightly over the last month, after decreasing under the previous year. He said 2.5 percent of those found guilty of crimes were foreigners.
In explaining the need for new measures, Hugo Franco, a senior official in charge of immigration control, said the Government was merely interested in "protecting legal immigration and fighting illegality."
Officials said at least 60 percent of those arrested for petty crimes in Buenos Aires in recent months were foreigners. Critics contest that estimate and note that foreigners make up a much smaller percentage of the prison population.
President Hugo Banzer of Bolivia has publicly expressed concerns that the new proposals will generate anti-Bolivian feelings and asked for guarantees that the rights of Bolivian immigrants will be respected.
"We want Argentine authorities," Mr. Banzer said, "to prevent abuses and deportations." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (97%); BOLIVIA (94%); PARAGUAY (94%); CHILE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; BOLIVIA; PARAGUAY; PERU; ARGENTINA (97%); BOLIVIA (94%); PARAGUAY (94%); CHILE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); SENTENCING (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); CENSUS (51%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES) CARLOS SAUL MENEM (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



383 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Homes Up; Factory Output Rises

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
New-home construction starts rose in January at the fastest pace in 12 years, bolstered by strong gains in the South and West, and factory production increased for the fourth month in a row.
Starts rose 3.8 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.804 million houses, the Commerce Department announced today. Analysts expected housing starts to decrease 2.4 percent last month. December starts rose a revised 5.1 percent, previously reported as a 3.5 percent gain. 
 "There are no signs of a slowdown" in housing, said Anthony Chan, chief economist at BancOne Investment Advisers in Columbus, Ohio. "Strong unemployment, low interest rates and high consumer confidence are coming through loud and clear."
That combination is also spurring output at the country's factories and utilities. Unexpected strength in manufacturing -- the weak spot in the economy -- last month helped offset a slump in mining production, Federal Reserve figures showed.
Factory production rose one-tenth of a percent last month after a similar gain in December. Overall industrial production was unchanged in January as gains at factories and utilities offset a slump in mining. Industrial production rose two-tenths of a percent in December.
With builders struggling to keep pace with record sales, the jobless rate hovering at its lowest level in a generation and inflation microscopic, the world's largest economy is poised to extend its almost nine-year-old expansion, already the longest in peacetime history.
January housing starts were the strongest since a 1.833 million pace in December 1986. Housing starts totaled a revised 1.616 million last year, up 9.6 percent from 1.474 million in 1997 and the highest since 1987, when they stood at 1.621 million.
Analysts had expected a decline in home starts because snow and ice storms gripped the Midwest and heavy rains fell in the Northeast during early January, according to a national weather summary provided by the Department of Agriculture.
Starts in those regions did decline. Still, starts in the South raced ahead at the fastest pace in 13 years.
"There's a consistency of demand that I wouldn't expect to be going away soon," said James P. Zeumer, vice president of corporate communications at the Pulte Corporation in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., before the report. Pulte is one of the nation's largest home builders.
Shares of Pulte and other home builders rose after the statistics were released. The Standard & Poor's index of home builders, which is a barometer of the industry, increased rose 3.5 points, to 181.25. The index comprises Pulte, the Centex Corporation and the Kaufman & Broad Home Corporation.
"The good times continue to roll on," said Robert I. Toll, chairman and chief executive of Toll Brothers Inc., the nation's leading builder of luxury homes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" shows an index of total industrial production, from Aug. 1997 through Jan. 1999. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)
 
"Housing Construction" shows new private housing started and permits authorized, from Aug. 1997 through Jan. 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (63%); KBH (NYSE) (60%); TOL (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (63%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (63%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (63%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (63%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (60%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (60%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (60%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (60%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM PULTEGROUP INC (63%); KB HOME CORP (60%); TOLL BROTHERS INC (60%); CENTEX CORP (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WEATHER (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); 

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



384 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: East Timor Seems Suddenly to Be on Verge of Independence

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
For almost a quarter-century, relations between Indonesia, the world's fourth most populous nation, and the United States -- as well as the rest of the outside world -- have often stumbled over the fate of half of an impoverished island so small and so remote that even many Indonesians would have trouble finding it on a map.
But with the utterance of a few words last week by Indonesia's new President, the territory, East Timor, suddenly appears to be on the brink of independence. That has left the Clinton Administration and other governments puzzling over how to respond to Indonesia's turnaround. 
 Indonesia, on the verge of economic and political collapse as a result of the Asian economic crisis, seems eager to be rid of East Timor, a former Portuguese colony that was invaded and annexed by Indonesia in the mid-1970's over international protest. Since then, the territory's name has become a rallying cry for human rights campaigners.
"We don't want to be bothered by East Timor's problems anymore," Indonesia's President, B. J. Habibie, said last week. "If someone asks me about East Timor, my suggestion is, give them freedom. It is just and fair."
While welcoming the move toward independence for the 750,000 people of East Timor, Administration officials and foreign diplomats say that if the break with Indonesia is too sudden, it could lead to chaos and even civil war as Timorese factions maneuver for power.
While the vast majority of the population is thought to favor independence, East Timorese who oppose independence have formed small armed bands to fight to keep the territory part of Indonesia, with weapons provided to them by the Indonesian military.
"The Indonesians can't just pull out and expect it to be normal there," said Stanley O. Roth, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs. "Any viable solution in East Timor must avoid the type of bloodshed that occurred in 1975, when Portugal withdrew."
Portugal abruptly pulled out of East Timor that year after nearly four centuries of colonization. Indonesia quickly invaded, and declared East Timor a province in 1976. The western half of the island, a former Dutch territory, was already part of Indonesia.
International human rights groups have long accused the Indonesian military of a campaign of killing and torture to enforce the annexation of East Timor. Human rights groups say up to 200,000 East Timorese have died since 1975 as a result of human rights abuses or fighting with Government forces.
President Suharto, who resigned under pressure in May after more than three decades in power, insisted that East Timor would forever remain part of Indonesia.
But his former Vice President and successor, Mr. Habibie, recognized that East Timor had helped turn Indonesia into a ripe target for human rights activists, and that rights abuses there by the military were damaging diplomatic and trade relationships at a time when Indonesia was desperate for international help.
"Indonesia is burdened with enough troubles now, without East Timor," said Daniel Lev, an Indonesian specialist at the University of Washington. "This is a very sensible decision that will work in Indonesia's favor. This would relieve Indonesia of an international burden and the international criticism it has faced since 1975."
Earlier this month Mr. Habibie agreed to remove the long-jailed leader of the East Timorese independence movement from prison and place him under house arrest.
He also ordered Indonesia's Foreign Minister to meet at the United Nations with his counterpart from Portugal, which is still recognized by the United Nations as the territory's administrator, to discuss greater autonomy or independence for East Timor.
The fear, Administration officials and foreign diplomats say, is that Mr. Habibie may move too quickly, and that East Timor may find itself granted full independence from Indonesia before it is ready to govern itself, and with the territory awash in guns. Mr. Habibie has said he wants the issue of East Timorese autonomy resolved by the end of this year.
In testimony last week in Congress, Mr. Roth said the State Department had received "numerous reports that the Indonesian Army has been arming" anti-independence militia groups in East Timor.
He said the United States welcomed a recent statement by the Indonesian Government that it would would support an effort to disarm the groups before a withdrawal of Indonesian troops.
But human rights groups wonder whether the military, concerned that independence for East Timor could inspire independence movements elsewhere in the vast, ethnically diverse Indonesian archipelago, is trying to encourage turmoil.
Rights groups have called on the Indonesian Government to allow the United Nations to station monitors in East Timor -- and possibly even peacekeeping troops -- to observe a transition to independence and to prevent outbreaks of violence among East Timorese factions and the Indonesian military.
"We feel it's urgent that there be an international presence on the ground to prevent further escalation of violence," said Mike Jendrzejczyk, Washington director of Human Rights Watch Asia. "For this process to have any kind of transparency, any kind of credibility, it would obviously help to have some kind of U.N. presence."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of East Timor: Indonesia invaded and annexed East Timor in the mid-1970's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (95%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; TIMOR-LESTE (95%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CIVIL WAR (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); TORTURE (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; HABIBIE, B J (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



385 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Presents Republican Plan for Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
The Republican chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees Social Security provided the first details today of his approach to shoring up the retirement system, saying that he planned to introduce legislation that would create private investment accounts but insulate retirees from the risks of the stock market.
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee's Social Security Subcommittee, said the plan would use a large portion of the Federal budget surplus to finance the investment accounts. 
 Although members of both parties have made specific proposals on Social Security, the Republican leadership has so far been reluctant to endorse a particular approach, calling on President Clinton instead to present a detailed package as the basis for negotiations.
Mr. Shaw said his plan, which will be the starting point for the bill most likely to reach the House floor later this year, would still have to be reviewed by his party's leaders. But he said his approach had the general support of most House Republicans, and his willingness to outline legislation could mark the beginning of a more intense debate over how the nation should deal with pressures facing the social welfare system as the population ages.
Republican leaders have agreed with Mr. Clinton that 62 percent of the projected Federal budget surpluses, or $2.7 trillion over the next 15 years, should be set aside to help put Social Security on firmer financial footing as the baby boom generation approaches retirement. While there is no assurance that the surpluses will actually materialize, both parties are counting on them to minimize or eliminate the need for benefit cuts or tax increases.
But the two parties are far apart over how to use the money for Social Security. Mr. Clinton, backed by nearly all Democrats in the House and most in the Senate, wants to use the money to pay down the national debt and earmark the savings for Social Security.
Members of both parties are skeptical that they can reach agreement on an issue that is so politically sensitive and brings out the deep ideological differences between them, especially in the aftermath of the impeachment trial and with the 2000 elections looming.
Mr. Shaw's approach, while still in tentative form and lacking many of the details that would determine its fate, would use the surplus to help individuals buy stocks and bonds for private accounts that would be part of the Social Security system.
Mr. Shaw said he believed most people would do better under his plan than under the current system. But he said his plan would set a guaranteed benefit level that all retirees could count on even if their investments performed poorly. Mr. Shaw did not provide details on how the guarantee would be financed, and it was not clear whether the plan would allow a benefit equal to what current retirees receive, or if the level would have to be reduced.
He said the plan would also make private investment voluntary, at least at first, permitting people intimidated by the stock market to opt for the guaranteed benefit.
Mr. Shaw described his approach even as Mr. Clinton was holding an event at the White House to develop support for his approach.
In addition to using the bulk of the surplus for debt reduction, the President's plan calls for the Federal Government to invest a portion of Social Security's reserves in the stock market in an effort to generate higher returns. These reserves are currently invested in a low-yielding but safe form of Treasury bond.
Mr. Clinton's plan rejects the creation of individual investment accounts within the Social Security system, but calls for the use of tax breaks to help finance new savings accounts for low- and middle-income people as a supplement to Social Security.
"The Republican leadership has said that generally it supports setting aside 62 percent of the surplus until we save Social Security," Mr. Clinton said today. "That's good and I appreciate that."
But, Mr. Clinton added, "That's where the agreement ends."
Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's economic adviser, said the Administration had "real skepticism" about individual investment accounts, but said Mr. Shaw's proposal could be constructive.
"To the degree that he's putting his own specific ideas into the debate rather than simply launching critiques, that's a positive step," Mr. Sperling said.
Both the White House and the Republican leadership have pledged to work together to see if a bipartisan deal on Social Security is possible this year. Speaker Dennis Hastert will meet with Mr. Clinton next week to discuss the issue. But so far there have been no efforts by either side to negotiate.
Without any changes, the system will run short of money to pay all promised benefits starting in 2032.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Social Security was the issue being discussed yesterday at the White House when President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton reacted to an allusion about her running for the Senate from New York. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS LEGISLATION (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; SHAW, E CLAY JR (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



386 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: A Deal on Lockerbie

 BODY:
More than a decade after 270 people died in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, reasonable arrangements for trying the two Libyan intelligence agents accused in the case at last seem to be falling into place.
Under a plan put together by the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, would send the two suspects to the Netherlands for a trial under Scottish law. If convicted, the Libyans would serve their sentences in Scotland. Whatever the outcome of the trial, U.N. economic sanctions against Libya would be suspended and, in all likelihood, permanently shelved. 
 That formula would leave many American grievances against Colonel Qaddafi unresolved. But it would allow justice to be belatedly done in the Lockerbie case. First proposed by Libya several years ago, the idea of a trial in a neutral country under Scottish law was accepted by the United States and Britain last summer. Colonel Qaddafi then raised new questions, but now appears ready to proceed, persuaded by the personal diplomacy of Mr. Annan, with crucial help from President Nelson Mandela of South Africa and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. They persuaded the Libyan leader to accept the idea that the two suspects, if convicted, would have to serve their sentences in Scotland, although they could receive regular visits there by Libyan diplomats.
Colonel Qaddafi has not yet severed his ties with terrorism, remains an outspoken opponent of peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors and is trying to develop biological and chemical weapons. But agreement to turn over the Lockerbie suspects could be a sign that he is tiring of his role as an international pariah. If so, he might be induced to take further steps toward diplomatic respectability. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); SCOTLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYA; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); SCOTLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



387 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Software and Computer Shares Lead Widespread Decline

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell sharply yesterday, pulled down by software and computer companies, which fell in the wake of weaker-than-expected sales from Dell Computer and Hewlett-Packard.
By most standards, Dell's fourth-quarter numbers, released after the market's close on Tuesday, were exemplary: a 49 percent jump in net income but sales growth of "only" 38 percent. 
 The revenue number was a disappointment because Dell had reported average quarterly sales growth of 56 percent over the previous eight quarters.
Some analysts had predicted Dell's sales would fall short of its performance over the last two years, and the stock fell sharply on Friday and again on Tuesday. It tumbled another 7 3/16 yesterday, to 81 9/16 .
Since the close on Feb. 11, Dell, the best-performing stock in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the last three years, has declined 20 percent.
Evidence that a market leader had stumbled spread through the technology sector and spilled into the overall market, clipping prices of everything from blue chips to small company stocks.
On the New York Stock Exchange, declining issues outnumbered those that advanced by nearly 2 to 1. Volume on the Big Board was moderate, at 735.1 million shares. On the Nasdaq, just more than 900 million shares changed hands.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 101.56 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,195.47. The S.& P. 500 fell 17.84 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,224.03. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was battered, dropping 6.86 points, or 1.7 percent, to 389.54. For the year, the index is down 7.7 percent.
But the biggest declines of the session were recorded by stocks that make up the Nasdaq composite index.
Nasdaq fell 64.96 points, or 2.8 percent, to 2,248.91. Since Feb. 11, the Nasdaq has declined 6.5 percent, its biggest three-session loss since October 1998.
"There are a lot of reasons for the market to get hit, and virtually no reasons for it to go up," one stock trader said. "At best, I think we will tread water between 9,100 and 9,400 on the Dow. But I would not be at all surprised to see it take a little hit and go through 9,100."
John Manley, an equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, said "strong pressures" are working on stock prices, some positively, others much less so.
"The Fed is trying to keep the financial system from imploding, but economic growth in significant portions of the world, including Europe and Latin America, is slowing," he said.
"More than ever," he added, "the United States is affected by what is happening overseas. The market action over the past five days has been markedly affected by what is happening in Japan."
In this country, the recent rise in Japanese interest rates has not only pushed up bond yields but also shown that stocks are vulnerable to an increase in interest rates. Bond prices rose slightly and yields fell for a second day yesterday, and the improvement helped many interest-sensitive bank and financial company shares.
But that development did nothing to stem the decline in high-flying technology shares.
Hewlett-Packard was the worst- performing component of the Dow, shedding 2 3/8, to 68 1/8. Like Dell, Hewlett, the world's second-biggest computer maker, reported a slowdown in its fiscal first-quarter sales growth and said sales were likely to be lackluster for the rest of the year. Traders chose to concentrate on the slower sales and ignored earnings that beat analysts' consensus estimates by 9 cents a share.
Other computer manufacturers also got punished.
I.B.M. lost 2, to 170 1/2. And Compaq Computer fell 1 13/16 , to 41.
Among other leading technology companies, Microsoft slumped 6 1/4, to 150. Cisco Systems lost 3 15/16 , to 95 1/8. And Sun Microsystems fell 6 3/8, to 94 1/16 .

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bond Prices Rise
 Bond prices rose yesterday for a second day as declining commodity prices and a Federal Reserve report showing no pickup in industrial production bolstered expectations for subdued inflation.
The drop in commodities, including gold, "points to low inflation," said Barry Evans, who helps oversee $10 billion of bonds at John Hancock Funds in Boston, including some Treasuries purchased yesterday. "That's better for bonds."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 15/32 , to 99 4/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.31 percent, from 5.34 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Jan. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



388 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Settles Lawsuit On Desegregation of Schools

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 17

 BODY:
The San Francisco school district has agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit by Chinese-American students seeking to end the city's school desegregation efforts based on race.
The settlement, which received preliminary approval from a Federal district judge on Tuesday, would eliminate racial and ethnic quotas that have been enforced at San Francisco schools for 15 years. 
 It would also prohibit assigning any of the district's 62,000 students to a school, class or program solely on the basis of race or ethnicity. The San Francisco Examiner reported today that the school district might adopt a system of preferences for children facing personal and economic hardship in a new assignment plan that would go into effect in the fall of 2000.
The schools superintendent, Bill Rojas, said the district could insure integration without using race by redrawing school boundaries to include children from a variety of neighborhoods or giving enrollment preferences to poor and otherwise disadvantaged children, The Examiner said. That might result in students who live in public housing, or qualify for free or reduced-price lunch or whose parents never graduated from high school, having a better chance at winning a place in a competitive school than a child from a well-educated, middle-class family.
Under the settlement, the ban on racial and ethnic admissions would have to be drafted by mid-March and would take effect this fall for students in kindergarten and the sixth and ninth grades, as well as for students new to the district. It would cover all students the following year.
The settlement leaves the district's overall desegregation efforts under court supervision through 2002. That means the district should continue receiving $37 million a year it is now given by the state for remedial and enrichment classes and other programs to eliminate the effects of segregation, said Anthony Anderson, an associate superintendent.
Judge William Orrick of Federal District Court here, praised the school district, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the plaintiffs for bringing the case to a "successful and peaceful solution" and avoiding a potentially divisive trial, which was to have started on Tuesday. He gave preliminary approval to the settlement, and scheduled a hearing on final approval for April 20.
The enrollment ceilings that will be phased out limited the enrollment of any single racial or ethnic group to 45 percent of the student body at a school, and a 40 percent limit at alternative or magnet schools. The limits were part of a desegregation program, approved by Judge Orrick in 1983, that settled a 1978 discrimination suit by the N.A.A.C.P.
The settlement does include a provision that would allow the N.A.A.C.P. to return to court to ask for a desegregation remedy if schools become segregated, said Daniel Girard, the lawyer who represented the plaintiffs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (57%); A BETTER CHANCE (55%); A BETTER CHANCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (55%); A BETTER CHANCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; CHINESE-AMERICANS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); QUOTAS SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (92%); LITIGATION (91%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); FAMILY (75%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); 

PERSON: ORRICK, WILLIAM (JUDGE) WILLIAM ORRICK (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



389 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Providing Legal Cloaks for a Topless Club

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER 

 BODY:
IT'S in the nature of a lawyer to object, so maybe it is not surprising that Mark J. Alonso, who has been defending the topless bar Ten's so creatively, has a problem.
"Dodge" is the word that's bothering him -- as in ducking or skirting the law. And as Mr. Alonso came up with the very clever idea of getting around the city's crackdown on adult establishments last summer by having Ten's admit minors, thus removing itself from classification as an adult establishment, it seems appropriate. That loophole, after seven heady months for Mr. Alonso, was declared invalid last week. 
 Prompting the question:
In all honesty, how long did Mr. Alonso think he would get away with that minors dodge? He doesn't mind if the reporter calls it a dodge?
"I mind," he says.
An example follows of Mr. Alonso's thinking, convoluted but impressive. Mr. Alonso does not, as they say in the theater -- which has been known to encompass law -- once break character and laugh.
"Do you jaywalk?," Mr. Alonso asks. "O.K., so when you cross at the corner is that a dodge? Every time I pay my taxes, I'm using a dodge to avoid evasion of taxes? All we did was do exactly what the law said, by placing ourselves outside of it by not excluding minors."
Dizziness requires one to take a moment. Certainly Mr. Alonso would agree that not excluding minors goes against the spirit of the law.
"If you accept that the intent of the law was to close topless nightclubs, then yes, it runs counter to the spirit of the law," he says. "But the intent of the law was to eliminate adverse secondary effects caused by adult establishments, and anyone who knows the neighborhood Ten's is in -- the 20's, Chelsea -- knows most secondary effects were caused by Limelight and the clubs that cater to a younger crowd." Ten's attracts older businessmen.
Another tack from Mr. Alonso: "This is a constitutional argument." He invokes the Constitution so often you think you're in the offices of the A.C.L.U.
It's been quite a merry run -- at least for Mr. Alonso, who gives every indication of enjoying this fight.
Last November, Justice Stephen G. Crane of State Supreme Court in Manhattan upheld Mr. Alonso's argument that the club could not be defined as an adult eating and drinking establishment "if it does not exclude minors."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called the ruling "one of the jerkier opinions that comes out of being overly legalistic."
The National Law Journal called Mr. Alonso "a sharp lawyer."
Two weeks ago, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court overturned that decision. The police padlocked the club, and Ten's was shut down for all of a week.
Then Judge Crane permitted Ten's to re-open, because the club had complied with city law by limiting adult entertainment (i.e., topless dancers) to less than 40 percent of its floor space. In the rest of the space, the patrons (male) could dance with women in evening gowns at $20 a dance.
IT'S the old dime-a-dance concept, adjusted for inflation," Mr. Alonso says. "If you're there, a couple of businessmen alone, and you want to sit with a couple of beautiful women, ask them to dance to Frank Sinatra, you can. I went with my wife and it was one of the more pleasant times I've had in a nightclub in seven or eight years. The men enjoy it immensely. It's a chance to interact with the woman as a real date. As opposed to an object."
Mr. Alonso, who is 43, was reared in Greenwich Village and educated at Grace Church School and Trinity High School, and later the State University at Stony Brook and Fordham University Law School. His father, who had grown up in Spain, ran a speakeasy in New York during Prohibition, then was the owner of Granado's Restaurant, on MacDougal Street. Mr. Alonso's first love was music; he performed in and wrote the score for an Off Broadway show when he was in high school. A photo from the production is in his midtown office; interestingly, most of the performers are nude. Mr. Alonso is not.
The legal career, according to Mr. Alonso, happened almost by default. "I found that I had a natural talent for argument," he says. "It was pretty close to the only thing I was good at."
Mr. Alonso specialized in business law, and became involved with topless clubs for the first time in the late 1980's. The clubs now represent perhaps 15 percent of his business. Being the man who represents Ten's has had no impact on his personal life, Mr. Alonso says, though he is disturbed at the way some may perceive him.
"The biggest misimpression of me is that we're just topless lawyers," Mr. Alonso says. "The other is that this is some sort of loophole, when in reality it is very, very sound constitutional law."
He talks about the New York City of his youth: of taking a date to see the Broadway show "Hair" when he was 14 and suffering no great psychic harm from the nude scene. He talks about New York now.
"I have a vision of the city which is very different from the Mayor's bottom line," Mr. Alonso says. "I think it thrives on diversity and opportunity for everybody. I believe the Mayor has done tremendous things in certain fields, but ultimately his vision of the city is a suburban mall with high-rises."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Alonso, the lawyer who represents the topless bar Ten's. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TEN'S WORLD CLASS CABARET (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: TEN'S WORLD CLASS CABARET (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ZONING LAWYERS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: ALONSO, MARK J; WADLER, JOYCE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



390 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Why Robbing Peter to Pay Paul Makes Sense in the Federal Budget

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
Republicans in Congress are finding all kinds of suspicious elements in President Clinton's budget plan.
Pointing to page 389 of the President's budget, Representative Wally Herger of California, a Republican member of the House Budget Committee, accuses Mr. Clinton of proposing to increase the Federal debt by more than $1 trillion by 2004. According to this argument, a budget that the Administration boasts would use trillions of dollars over the next 15 years to buy back Government bonds held by the public in reality digs a deeper financial hole. 
 Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, says the plan will put a "large burden on our children and grandchildren, who will have to repay this debt."
Administration officials and many outside analysts say the accusations are factually correct but substantively misleading.
Mr. Herger asks, "If, as the Administration claims, the budget is balanced and saves Social Security, why is Federal debt still rising?" The answer also lies on page 389 of the budget, two lines below the figures he focuses on. The table shows that under the Clinton plan, Federal debt held by the public -- or external debt -- falls to about $3.3 trillion in 2004 from about $3.7 trillion today. But, as Republican critics note, total Federal debt rises to about $6.8 trillion from about $5.6 trillion during the same period. Total debt equals debt held by the public (external debt) plus debt held by Government agencies or trust funds (let's call that internal debt).
The two debt figures move in opposite directions because the President proposes to use a large share of surpluses to buy back Government bonds held by the public. External debt would fall. The President would then, in effect, deposit the purchased bonds in the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. Internal debt would rise, because the bonds represent loans from the trust funds to the Treasury. Some day the trust funds would return those bonds for cash.
So which side has the better economic case: the Democrats, who point to falling external debt as a virtue, or the Republicans, who point to rising internal debt as a vice?
External debt -- borrowing money from the public -- has real economic consequences. It siphons dollars from savers and, therefore, private capital markets. Private investment drops. Depending on how the Government uses the borrowed money, the drop in investment could slow economic growth.
Internal debt siphons no money out of the economy. It draws down no private saving or investment. For one agency to lend money to another agency is akin to taking $20 out of one's right pocket, depositing it into the left pocket and reimbursing the right pocket with a $20 I.O.U. The internal loan does not change the person's financial status one iota. One can still spend $20.
By running down external debt and running up internal debt, the President leaves more money in private capital markets. Indeed, his plan nearly wipes out external debt, lowering it from almost 45 percent of gross domestic product today to about 7 percent in 15 years.
Internal debt climbs under the plan: The right pocket of the Government owes the left pocket a whole lot more money.
Yet Mr. Archer looks at these trends and cries foul on behalf of his grandchildren. The Administration's defense comes in two parts.
First, its budget would not raise Social Security spending by a nickel now or in the future. Retirement benefits are determined by statute, not by the size of the trust fund. If Mr. Clinton never added a bond to the trust fund, the Government would still owe retirees money that, if otherwise unavailable, would have to be raised by borrowing or taxing. The bonds add no burden on future taxpayers.
Second, the Administration's budget projections show large overall surpluses even during the years when the Social Security trust fund will be returning bonds to the Treasury for cash. The surpluses, if they materialize, guarantee that the Treasury would have enough cash to redeem the Social Security bonds and still pay for other Federal programs. Mr. Archer's grandchildren will not have to pay extra taxes. Nor will the Government have to invade private capital markets.
There are reasons to question the President's plan. Should Congress pledge money to Social Security based on guesses that Federal surpluses will materialize in the future? Should Congress, by piling up bonds in the Social Security and Medicare trust funds, give those programs first call on general tax revenue? After all, the political consensus behind Social Security rests in part on the fact that it has its own source of money, the payroll tax.
But Republican criticisms cast the issue in a different light. "Debt is debt, and no matter how classified, our children and grandchildren must repay," Mr. Herger says.
This, says the Administration, reflects fundamental confusion. All debt is far from the same. External debt can be cancerous. Internal debt is benign. There is no more need to drive down internal debt than there is for one's right pocket to repay one's left pocket. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (69%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE BUDGETS (96%); PUBLIC DEBT (95%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



391 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Curtains of Boston's Best Neighborhood, a New Elite

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
They call Louisburg Square (pronounced Lewisburg, please, not Loueeburg) the most prestigious property, the most exclusive enclave, the most treasured trophy address in Boston. They call it the heart of Beacon Hill, that slope of brick-paved, gas-lighted lanes once a bastion of Boston Brahminism.
But peep into the town houses here -- or rather, into their real estate records -- and Louisburg Square suddenly comes to represent the exact opposite of old Boston. 
 For on the little square where names like Cabot and Appleton still dominated a generation ago, a transformation is complete: from old Anglo-Saxon to new ethnic names; from shabby gentility to $3 million price tags on town houses without garages that allow passers-by on snowy days the unusual sight of a billionaire or two clearing off their cars.
Most important, descendants of old shipping and merchant banking fortunes that defined Boston for generations have ceded possession of thesquare to largely self-made captains of the high-tech, financial and other industries that are reinventing the city.
The changing of the guard on Louisburg Square mirrors other transitions from blue blood to new blood, from old money to new money, urban scholars say: Pacific Heights in San Francisco, or, to a lesser extent, Society Hill in Philadelphia or the lakeside Gold Coast in Chicago.
"You could call it turbo-gentrification," the sociologist Alan Wolfe said, borrowing from a new book on the super-charged economy, "Turbo-capitalism."
But other scholars and participants describe it as a sort of de-gentrification: A process in which meritocracy, or marketocracy, periodically triumphs over breeding in forming an elite. For a city's own good, if it wants to avoid economic atrophy, the new money had better triumph, historians say.
These days, "young people and people with ideas and people who like the tumble and tide are attracted to Boston and San Francisco and Chicago and New York" and a few other spots, said Kenneth T. Jackson, an urban historian at Columbia University.
"I think that St. Louis, New Orleans, maybe in some ways Memphis, are cities that had an older elite that wasn't as open to new people," Mr. Jackson said, "and I think all those cities suffered a little bit."
Here in Boston, the effect of the old money's accession to new is felt in subtle ways: the clutter of construction trash bins and trucks on Beacon Hill and in the tony Back Bay, as new owners spend millions on interior renovations; the increasingly diverse trustees of the Boston Symphony Orchestra or the Museum of Fine Arts; in talk of the city's economic and cultural vibrancy, and a sense that the old Brahmin monopoly on financial and social power, like the Irish monopoly on political power, has given way to something more open and complex.
On Louisburg Square the change comes into clear relief. These days, neighbors say, they cannot name a full-blown Brahmin left in residence. The current owners of the 27 town houses that line the square include Chris Gabrieli, a son of immigrants who made millions in software and is now a venture capitalist; Robin Cook, a self-described "poor boy from Queens" who bought his house after writing "Coma," the best-selling novel; Peter Lynch, the Fidelity investment guru; Alan Friedberg, retired chairman of Loews Theatres; Thomas Stemberg, who built the Staples office supply chain, and Amos Hostetter, who built Continental Cablevision.
Several of the new residents are ensconced not only in their own paneled libraries but in philanthropic activities once mainly the province of Brahmins.
Mr. Hostetter is widely said to be about to start the biggest private foundation in Boston. Mr. Gabrieli has a family foundation and oversees a public-policy center. Mr. Lynch announced this week that he and his wife were giving more than $10 million to Boston College's school of education.
"It's not like it used to be, when your name had to be something and your background had to be something," said Mr. Friedberg, the retired Loews chairman, who serves on several boards. "Now it's more a question of, are you a valuable asset? Not just in terms of money, but are you a straight shooter, are you willing to roll up your sleeves and work?
"I think the game rules have changed. It's not about whether you have the right ancestors, it's who you are."
Who you are also affects to some extent how you direct your money, Mr. Gabrieli said.
"By and large, it's somewhat less toward traditional culture and arts -- though that's not to say there's no giving there, there is -- and more heavily toward education and opportunity," he said. "It's very entrepreneurial."
Mr. Gabrieli added: "These people, myself included, are entrepreneurs. The pitch that XYZ museum has been around forever and deserves a new generation of stewards is less appealing -- not that it should be, because those are great institutions -- but it's less appealing than, 'Here's a new idea that could really transform something and really needs some drive behind it.' "
The social transformation of Louisburg Square began to take on steam in the late 1970's, said Thomas Townsend, a real estate broker and authority on the Hill. Old Brahmins' departures and deaths opened the way to owners with a new kind of money.
Now, at the end of the century, the strong economy and restored city chic are bringing Beacon Hill renewed glory. Its impeccable preservation, central location and community spirit have combined to make it a neighborhood so hot that a former carriage house is for sale here at nearly $2 million.
As recently as 1970 the Louisburg Square town houses sold for around $100,000. The first Beacon Hill sale to crack $1 million came in 1984 on Louisburg Square, real estate agents say. Though a handful of more modest rental units and condominiums remain, recent sales have exceeded $3 million and $4 million.
On "the Hill," where the sweep of historical memory spans the two centuries since it was built up by developers who also sliced off its top, the influx of mega-rich appears to evoke mixed feelings. No one seems to mourn the isolationist side of the Brahmin reign, or the crumbling Boston of two or three decades ago that dropped prices and sent families fleeing to the suburbs.
And the strong sense of history prompts obvious parallels: Karen Cord Taylor, editor and publisher of The Beacon Hill Times, pointed out that Charles Bulfinch, the famed architect and developer whose gems, like the State House, crown Beacon Hill, was something like the Donald J. Trump of his day. And who were the original Beacon Hill residents but entrepreneurs who happened to be in shipping and import-export and banking rather than technology and media?
"They were the nouveaux riches and arrivistes of their day," she said.
Still, the arrival of this new wave is bringing some consternation along with the welcome for billionaire blockbusters.
Henry Lee, scion of a Brahmin family and longtime resident of a house that looks out on Louisburg Square but is not technically a part of it, said that many of the new rich residents are laudably generous to community causes like the Friends of the Public Garden, which he heads. But he worries, he said, that "money is a terrible destroyer of architecture."
"Poverty is a great preserver," Mr. Lee added. "One thing I do deplore is that an awful lot of people have moved into houses on Louisburg Square and elsewhere and gutted them."
Some houses may have needed gutting, said Mr. Cook, the novelist, who discovered the dirty little secret of Louisburg Square when he moved in: The houses were largely built by developers rather than by owners, and their grandeur sometimes hides "pathetic" construction flaws that require major repairs like new foundations.
Still, Mr. Lee and others are concerned about architectural treasures being thrown out with the 19th-century heating systems. And there seems an element of psychological discomfort as well.
"I sometimes am a little appalled to look out and realize three or four billionaires are living on Louisburg Square, let alone millionaires," Mr. Lee said, sounding dryly amused. One recent Christmas, he said, he saw a Porsche with a fat red ribbon around it parked on the square -- "probably a stocking present."
Nonetheless, perhaps the most striking thing about the square's social transformation is that, aside from the fanciness of the cars parked on the dedicated spots that other Beacon Hill residents would kill for, its appearance is virtually unchanged, preserved under glass by powerful rules and even more powerful public sentiment that Beacon Hill's beauty lies in its historical integrity.
Its little park, often compared to those in London and locked to all but the residents, seems as unchanging as the houses' understatedly grand facades. The replacement of the octogenarian residents who dominated 20 years ago by younger mega-rich, Mr. Cook said, has meant a new collective willingness to fix the lawn and the fence and the road but not to make any major changes -- such as putting in the fountain he proposes.
For the octogenarians, he said, "spending more than $10 was anathema." Now, he said, "people are probably willing to spend money but everyone's a boss -- so they don't want the fountain unless it's the way they want it."
In a way, Mr. Lee said, the new mega-rich of Louisburg Square are not really a change, either, but only the continuation of a cycle.
"After all," he said, "class in America has always been wealth. In Boston, it got to be a little bit more than that because Bostonians invest their money very prudently and lived simply and therefore could pass it along from generation to generation".
But, he said, 'All these things are only a matter of time. It only takes two generations to get smug."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Once a "poor boy from Queens," the novelist Robin Cook, above, bought his Louisburg Square town house in Boston after writing the best-seller "Coma." Thirty years ago, the 27 town houses that line the square sold for about $100,000, but recent sales in the area have exceeded $4 million. (Photographs by Evan Richman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Boston showing location of Louisburg Square: Louisburg Square is Boston's most treasured trophy address.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); CITIES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); HISTORY (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (61%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY CHRIS GABRIELI (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



392 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 6750 words

HEADLINE: World Ills Are Obvious, the Cures Much Less So

SERIES: GLOBAL CONTAGION: A Narrative -- Last of four articles.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

 BODY:
Pigs to the left, pigs to the right, pigs all around him, Charles E. Burrus stood in the cacophonous center of his barn, gesturing at the indignant squealers. He felt like squealing, too.
"I don't know what we're going to do in the next three months," said Mr. Burrus, oblivious to the stench of the 7,000 animals around him. "We're losing $10,000 to $15,000 a semi load." 
 Mr. Burrus, a 65-year-old whose gray hair peeks through his farm cap, has seen some tough times in a life of hog farming, including a fire that ripped through his barns in 1978 and roasted 1,200 pigs alive. But nothing, he said, has ever been nearly so devastating as today's prices. These days he is bleeding money so badly that he worries about losing his 600-acre farm here among the cornfields near Cantrall, Ill., 130 miles southwest of Chicago.
"This is something we've never seen in the livestock business," Mr. Burrus said dolefully. "We've never seen this heavy a loss in the pork industry, not even in the Depression."
The problems on the Burrus farm, a sprawling collection of 14 hog buildings with temperature controls and automatic curtains on the windows, underscore how the economic crisis that began 19 months ago in Thailand is knocking on the gates of the American heartland.
The only real chance of a rescue for Mr. Burrus would come through an economic revival on the other side of the globe, in Asia, where his hogs usually end up between chopsticks.
So far, the United States as a whole has been remarkably impervious to the crisis, and much of American industry has benefited from the cheaper oil and imports resulting from the downturn elsewhere.
Still, it is not clear whether the United States can remain unaffected, and the crisis presents the country -- and the rest of the world -- with far-reaching political and economic challenges.
If the Cuban missile standoff was a quintessential cold-war crisis, then today's global economic upheaval may be a landmark crisis of the post-cold-war era.
The simplest challenge is for the United States to sustain its strong growth rates. But the broader task will be to prevent nationalistic cataclysms in the worst-off countries, like Russia and Indonesia, and to contain the political and security risks of explosive frustration if the crisis bites further into places like China and Latin America.
The American economy has demonstrated tremendous flexibility and resilience, but uncertainties arise because the American stock market is 64 percent higher than on Dec. 5, 1996, when Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned about "irrational exuberance."
Moreover the Brazilian crisis -- marking the failure of the November bailout -- underscores that the storm has not necessarily passed.
"To some extent Brazil's problem is a reflection of slowing economic activity," said Henry Kaufman, a Wall Street economist who now runs his own consulting company. "We have to consider whether there is more to come. Developing countries are still coming to grips with a slowdown in the global economy. If the economic revival in Europe is subdued and the American economy slows down, that is bound to put some pressure on other parts of the world."
The message from Washington during these upheavals strikes some foreigners as hypocritical. When Thailand and Brazil were hit, the Clinton Administration's message was firm: raise interest rates, cut government spending, put up with a recession if necessary, allow banks to fail, be stoical.
Yet in September when the crisis seemed as if it might strike the United States, the Administration had a change of heart. President Clinton went into overdrive in September, welcoming three interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, pressing Europe and others to cut rates as well, and finally getting money out of Congress for the International Monetary Fund. The Federal Reserve even coordinated the rescue of Long-Term Capital Management, a hedge fund backed by wealthy investors.
The rate cuts were precisely the opposite of the prescription that the United States had handed out to everyone else. And these days, there is a lurking fear in Washington that these countermeasures may have worked too well -- creating a false sense of security.
At Treasury and the Federal Reserve, officials were concerned to see that their actions seemed to have moved millions of investors from an excess of fear to a new spasm of exuberance, sending the market to a new high. Officials say they worry that the eventual fall, if there is one, may be that much farther.
For all the condemnation of cronyism and mismanagement abroad, there are signs in America and Europe of some of the vulnerabilities that brought down Asia.
The crisis abroad was partly a consequence of success: soaring growth rates led to excess confidence, excess borrowing, excess investment and excess capacity. Not everyone agrees, but some economists see similar patterns in corporate giants like U.S. Steel and even on farms like the one Mr. Burrus runs.
When pig prices were 80 cents a pound of live weight, Mr. Burrus borrowed from the banks to build new barns. In fact, he just completed his latest barn a few months ago. But the high prices were also driving every other hog farmer in the world to increase production as well, and in hindsight it was a pig bubble that popped.
So now Mr. Burrus is getting 17 cents a pound for his pigs, even though his costs are running 38 cents a pound. Bankers in Cantrall are nervously eyeing hog farms the way bankers in Rio de Janeiro are anxiously examining coffee plantations.
Just a couple of hours' drive from Mr. Burrus's farm is steel country, the huge chimneys and fiery vats of molten steel that represent the traditional sinews of American industry. These days steel companies are crying foul and laying off workers, saying they are facing a deluge of imports from Japan, Russia, Indonesia and other countries.
These nations worry about a new round of protectionism, and on Friday the United States announced penalties against Japan and Brazil for selling hot-rolled steel in the United States below cost.
In a broader sense, however, the steel companies' problem reflects the pattern of excess capacity that one sees in hogs, cars or Indonesian rickshaws. During the boom years, steel companies all over the world invested huge sums in production, in anticipation of the Asian market -- which then shriveled.
So far U.S. Steel and Mr. Burrus are both exceptions, and the American economy is still growing strongly. Yet apprehensions arise because the global economy is a three-engine jet, with one engine dead (Japan's) and another losing speed (Europe's). It all comes down to how much fuel is left for the final, American engine. The gauges are broken, the pilots are arguing and the journey has already set a distance record -- the United States' longest peacetime expansion, now almost eight years.
 
Slender Gains for Salamet
In the remote Indonesian town of Mojokerto, Salamet is in mourning. Mr. Salamet, a rickshaw driver, was outside trying to get rides one afternoon recently when his mother finally died in her sleep on the floor of his little house.
It was a relief, for she had groaned piteously from the pain of breast cancer, and he had been unable to afford painkillers. Yet Mr. Salamet now found himself faced with another bill he could not pay: the $28 for the coffin and burial.
In the end neighbors stepped in to lend him the money. But custom dictates that a bereaved son not leave the neighborhood for 40 days. This made it more difficult than ever to find the rickshaw rides that would buy food for his three hungry children and pay the fees to keep his eldest son, Dwi, in the second grade.
Yet to keep it all in perspective, Mr. Salamet is in the worst-off group -- the urban poor -- in the worst-off country of all, Indonesia, and even he is managing to get by.
In Mr. Salamet's neighborhood, no one thinks that the quality of life has retreated even to the level of 1990.
Asked about how much the depression had pushed his life backward, Mr. Salamet (who like many Indonesians uses only one name) described the positive changes over the last decade, and emphasized that these have been enduring.
"The biggest change was electricity, which came about six years ago," he reflected. "It cheers us all up, and at night there's light. And then there's also television now as well.
"The second-biggest change is that the roads here got paved. It used to be that in the rainy season, everything got so muddy you couldn't go anywhere. But now we can get around in all seasons, and I can drive the rickshaw and earn a living even after it's rained."
"The third change is the toilets," he concluded. "They were built four years ago. Until then everybody just used the river, but that was a problem at night. It was far away, and there were snakes that used to bite people."
These kinds of gains are still fragile, particularly in places like Indonesia, China and Russia, where there are serious risks of political instability. But for now at least, they have not come close to being undone.
More broadly, the striking thing about the economic news from Asia these days is that so much of it is good. A year and a half after the Asian crisis began, countries like Thailand and South Korea are showing signs of bottoming out. Asia's currencies have recovered sharply, with the Indonesian rupiah now standing at about 9,000 to the dollar, compared with 16,650 in June (or 2,500 before the crisis).
Interest rates have fallen as well, and this has bolstered the stock markets. They remain far, far below their precrisis levels, but Asian stock markets were some of the best performing in the world last year. South Korea's rose 121 percent in dollar terms in 1998, and Thailand's was up 34 percent -- both from abysmal lows.
If countries like South Korea and Thailand really restructure their economies in fundamental ways -- which so far has not happened, despite a lot of promising talk -- then it is possible that they will emerge that much stronger from the crisis, with better banking systems, more open economies, stronger legal systems and more democratic political structures. President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea argues that the crisis will be remembered as a blessing, because it is forcing essential economic changes.
"I believe that having to restructure our economy under the agreement of the I.M.F. is ultimately a big help for our economy," Mr. Kim said.
Whether the recovery is slow or rapid, the emerging markets eventually are expected to regain their pulse. Although they make up just 7 percent of the global value of stocks around the world, emerging markets account for 70 percent of the world's land, 85 percent of the world's population, and 99 percent of the anticipated growth in the world's labor force.
 
The Sandwich Man
Sirivat Voravetvuthikun offers a hopeful image of Asia's future, one in which Asians manage to rebuild their lives in new ways and thus achieve greater prosperity.
Mr. Sirivat, 50, a Chinese Thai businessman who went to high school and college in Texas, was a successful investment manager and property developer in Bangkok. With his brother, he built 28 lavish homes in the middle of a vast golf resort, with no luxury spared, from the swimming pools to the landscaping beneath mango trees and coconut palms.
The development cost $12 million, $10 million of it borrowed from banks and much of the rest from Mr. Sirivat's savings. It is in a lovely spot, nestled among the hills 115 miles northeast of Bangkok, but just as it was being completed the property market collapsed. Now the homes are empty and the main pool is green with algae.
The homes did not sell, and interest costs soared. Banks pressed him for payment, and Mr. Sirivat could not meet the payroll for his staff. He and his brother began quarreling.
That was when Mr. Sirivat, like thousands of other businessmen around Asia, decided to start again.
Drawing on his years in the United States, he decided to become a sandwich peddler. Sandwiches are not a customary food in Thailand, so Mr. Sirivat decided it would be a good market niche in a country whose young people are increasingly experimental about foreign foods.
"My wife started by making 20 sandwiches," Mr. Sirivat remembered. "I told my staff we had to sell them on the street. I remembered people in the States selling popcorn, carrying bags of it, and I thought, we'll try this. It's illegal to have pushcarts or to set up a table on the sidewalk, but I thought it would be O.K. if we just carried the sandwiches in a box."
Mr. Sirivat's business -- now known as Sirivat Sandwiches -- is thriving, and he is turning a nice profit on it. The first 20 sandwiches took six hours to sell, but now daily sales have reached 550 sandwiches.
Mr. Sirivat has rented another building in Bangkok to make sandwiches and to experiment with new varieties. He aims to emerge as the sandwich king of Thailand.
"This is going to be big," he boasted, adding that he was trying to build a strong brand name and ultimately hoped to list Sirivat Sandwiches on the Thai stock exchange.
 
Rocky Roads, Resentments
In assaying what comes next, some of the most fundamental concerns are not economic but social and political.
A growing backlash is evident against Western capitalism, and especially against the Americans who exemplify it. This is most apparent in countries like Russia, which has already defaulted on its debts, but it is found even in Japan, where politicians heap abuse on what they call Anglo-Saxon capitalism, deriding its ferocity and lack of civility.
In a rebellion against the American-led drive for free markets, the Finance Ministers of the second- and third-largest industrial countries, Japan and Germany, have both spoken about the need for tighter controls on currency movements. And late last year, a three-year-old international effort to achieve a Multilateral Agreement on Investments -- which would have promoted globalization and cross-border investments -- collapsed after France, applauded by Australia and Canada, backed out of the talks. They all worried about surrendering power to foreign companies and open markets.
Malaysia, once a darling of international investors, went the furthest in thumbing its nose at the markets. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has denounced Jews and the West for conspiring against him, and has warned that people in the developing world will stage "a kind of guerrilla war" against Western corporations that buy overseas companies at depressed prices.
Despite warnings from the West, Malaysia adopted capital controls on Sept. 1. The controls, which are now being relaxed to lure foreign investors back, seemed to help: the currency was stable, the stock market more than doubled and foreign exchange reserves rose sharply. Moreover, with interest rates of just 7 percent (compared with 38 percent in Indonesia), Malaysia is expected to eke out a bit of economic growth this year -- even as a continued dip is anticipated in Indonesia. Western officials worry that other countries may adopt Malaysia's methods.
Less dramatic capital controls, like Chile's system to encourage long-term inflows rather than short-term ones, now are also widely praised. Chile dismantled them late last year -- because at the moment there is no problem with excess capital inflows -- but those controls may become a model for other developing countries.
One of the greatest worries in the West is about the future of Russia. The stock market there plunged 84 percent last year in dollar terms. President Boris N. Yeltsin, once seen as President Clinton's ally and the man who would tug Russia toward the West, has now faded into the backdrop along with reforms.
Oleg N. Sysuyev, a top aide to Mr. Yeltsin, sat in his immense office in the old Central Committee Headquarters one day recently and said that reforms very likely were dead for the next five years in Russia. He added that unless the monetary fund gave in and offered Russia major support, there were only two scenarios for the country.
The first, Mr. Sysuyev said as he chain-smoked Marlboro Lights, is ruthless budget-cutting, which might lead voters to choose old-style, totalitarian candidates in the parliamentary elections in 1999 and the presidential elections in 2000. The second, he went on, is hyperinflation. "This scenario -- not as fast -- may lead to the same consequences," he said.
As for China, it has evaded the crisis, and what saved it from catastrophe may in part have been its unwillingness to listen to Western economists.
Urged to make its currency freely tradable with the dollar, it resisted. If the Chinese yuan had been convertible, then Chinese would have sent their money fleeing as Thais and Indonesians did, and China might also be mired in a major financial crisis.
China claims economic growth last year of almost 8 percent -- a tribute to the Government's $1.2 trillion stimulus plan and probably to the audacity of the statisticians.
Yet one troublesome parallel with the hardest-hit countries of Asia is found in a vast hole in the ground in the Pudong district of Shanghai.
The hole, swarming with construction workers, is scheduled to become the Shanghai World Financial Center, the tallest building in the world. At 1,509 feet tall, it will be 27 feet taller than the Petronas Towers of Malaysia, which in 1997 surpassed the Sears Tower to become the tallest.
Someday it may pay off. But for now it is scheduled to cost $625 million and provide 3.6 million square feet of floor space (twice as much as the Empire State Building) just as the Pudong business district finds itself with dozens of new buildings and an overall occupancy rate of only 30 percent.
This real estate bubble is linked to Japan, for the World Financial Center is backed in part by Japanese banks and is the brainchild of Minoru Mori, chief executive of the Mori Building Company.
Mr. Mori is a visionary in Japanese business circles, a man who reveres the French architect and planner Le Corbusier and who also aspires not just to put up roofs but to shape society.
Mr. Mori is unabashed. He argues that while Shanghai property may look like it is heading for a bust, in the long run there will be another boom as well.
"I think the abacus will show a profit for us," he said, but he acknowledged that completion of the World Financial Center might now be delayed a couple of years after the original target date of 2001.
On the wall of his boardroom, on the 37th floor of his Ark-Mori building in Tokyo, is a painting from Mr. Mori's outstanding collection of Le Corbusiers, bearing a large inscription by the artist: "Je revais," or "I was dreaming."
 
Precariousness Defined
The real estate glut in China is at the heart of a banking mess perhaps more serious than anywhere else in the world.
Chinese banks have lent heavily to construct buildings that are now largely vacant and worth little. Three of the four major banks are effectively insolvent by a huge margin, even though these are boom times.
So long as depositors keep their money in the accounts, the banks can keep functioning indefinitely. But the moment depositors start asking for their money back, the banking system in China will face the possibility of collapse.
China's bad bank debts are staggeringly large, totaling about 40 percent of gross national product, compared with 3 percent in the United States during the savings and loan crisis. Nonperforming loans (those that are not being paid back) are about 25 percent of the total at the big banks, significantly higher than in other countries when they were hit by the crisis.
Paradoxically, there seems little prospect that China will face an international currency crisis of the kind that hit Thailand and Indonesia. Beijing has $145 billion in foreign exchange reserves, exceeding the country's entire $131 billion foreign debt.
That leaves the risks of political upheaval in China coming from two directions, both economic.
One danger for the Government is a banking crisis, driving furious depositors to the streets to demand their money back.
The second risk comes from workers who lose their jobs at state-owned companies. The Communist Party has reiterated its plans to close down money-losing companies, but those workers may represent the sternest challenge to the Communist Party since the democracy movement in 1989.
Officially, 11.5 million people are unemployed in China, but that figure is not very meaningful because it excludes people who have been laid off as well as rural workers and peasant migrants to the cities. Estimates of total unemployment range up to 260 million, which is also not very meaningful, because many of these people manage to get odd jobs or make money on their land.
Still, no one doubts that there are tens of millions of Chinese workers and peasants who are unemployed or underemployed and who are a potentially dangerous element in the social mix. Outside the southern city of Changsha, near where Mao grew up, thousands of people clashed with the police early in January, and one man was killed when he was hit with an exploding tear-gas canister and bled to death.
Earlier, some 500 laid-off workers from a defunct wire-cable factory marched through Changsha and were joined by several thousand sympathetic onlookers who brought traffic in the downtown area to a standstill for most of the day.
Wang Weilin, 45, one of the onlookers, acknowledged that these protests might not lead anywhere, for workers are very careful not to push too far or to come across as protest leaders, for that might mean arrest.
Still, the frustrations were evident in the placards that workers carried, declaring, "We have no food," and "We don't want fish or meat, just a bowl of rice."
"These people," Mr. Wang said, "have nothing to eat."
 
Panic Spawns the Ninja
Indonesia offers frightening images of how economic distress can tear a society apart. Optimists sometimes used to say there was a possibility that China could turn out as well as Indonesia, but now Indonesia seems less a model than a nightmare.
Indonesian Muslims have been burning down churches, and Christians have been attacking mosques. In the capital, Muslim mobs have chased down and hacked Christian men to death as police officers and soldiers stood by. And when there is no other target around, rioters attack ethnic Chinese.
In the East Java region of Indonesia's main island, mysterious groups of men dressed in black have been killing Muslim religious leaders, chopping up the bodies and throwing the pieces into mosques. This has created a panic, leading to a witch hunt -- literally -- for the killers.
Called ninja by local people, these killers are believed to be sorcerers, and panicked mobs sometimes beat to death those whom they think might be ninja. More than 200 people have been killed so far, either by real ninja or by mobs looking for ninja, and crowds have sometimes paraded the heads of their victims on pikes.
Such brutality seems particularly incongruous because Java was civilized before England and has an ancient culture emphasizing harmony and restraint. The killings and mutilations have been a gruesome reminder of how rapidly economic crises can cause societies to mutate in horrific ways.
In Mojokerto, even Mr. Salamet, the rickshaw driver, has joined a posse to guard against ninja. He goes out each evening with a group of men, armed with clubs and sickles. Mr. Salamet is the most reasonable of the group, but some of the men spend their days sharpening their sickles and talking proudly of hacking to death any intruders they find.
Down the street from Mr. Salamet, a Muslim activist named Ahmed Banu claims to have beaten two ninja to death, and he shows off a pair of boots that he says belonged to one of the dead men. In fact, the entire episode seems to have been fictional, but Mr. Banu is a charismatic man with a growing following.
After prayers on a recent evening, he held an open meeting of local Muslims to deal with the supposed ninja menace. Mr. Salamet stayed away, but 24 men attended, listening intently as Mr. Banu warned passionately that the ninja were ready to destroy the neighborhood and vanquish all Muslims.
"If we Muslims are being treated like animals," he said, his voice rising, "will we stand for it?"
"No!" his followers yelled back.
"If we catch the ninja, what should we do? Give them to the police or kill them?"
"Kill them!"
 
White House Brainstorms
On Labor Day last year, as financial markets worldwide were tumbling in the aftermath of Russia's financial turmoil, an impatient and annoyed Bill Clinton summoned his top advisers to the Yellow Oval Room on the third floor of the White House. Mr. Clinton, in cowboy boots, settled in his favorite chair by the fireplace, and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin sat directly opposite, as he likes to do, so that he could look the President in the eye.
Mr. Clinton said he wanted to attack the crisis more directly and more openly. He also wanted his Administration to lead the way in remaking the global financial system, so as to reduce the risk of another crisis down the road. He had been speaking on the telephone with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, and they had agreed that world leaders should step out and convey a sense of urgency about altering the international economic order -- and so he was frustrated with Mr. Rubin's caution.
"Clinton was leaning on Treasury for some action," recalled one participant. "He was leaning hard. And of course the Treasury wanted to be cautious. It was telling the political types in the White House that this is sensitive stuff -- you say one wrong thing and you can mess things up."
The underlying problem is that today's Bretton Woods economic structure -- based on fixed exchange rates and the World Bank and International Monetary Fund -- is widely regarded as outdated and insufficient to steady today's markets.
"We need to establish a new system for the 21st century," said Eisuke Sakakibara, Japan's Vice Minister of Finance. "You could call it a new Bretton Woods. It's difficult, but it's got to be done."
But what precisely is to be done?
While almost everyone agrees that the present system is inadequate, there is no consensus on what would be better. Ideas range from radical proposals for a global central bank and semifixed exchange rates among major currencies to more modest suggestions for tougher bank standards and curbs on hedge funds.
At the annual World Economic Conference in Davos, Switzerland, recently, some European officials urged the creation of an "early warning system," roughly equivalent to a weather satellite alerting the world to approaching economic tornadoes. But the technology simply does not exist.
Others argue for an "exit tax," which would require investors to pay a fee for removing their money from a country quickly -- an experiment that Malaysia is now trying.But Mr. Rubin fears the tax could scare off investors.
Just as Mr. Clinton's enthusiasm for doing something seems to have ebbed as the sense of crisis faded, there seems little chance that the present debate will lead to any major changes soon in the international economic system.
One reason is that for all the tragedies now unfolding in places like Indonesia, supporters of the current economic system say that over all, it has done an excellent job of promoting economic growth. By some economic measures, Indonesians are better off materially today, in the bust stage of their boom-bust cycle, than if they had bought stability at the price of sacrificing growth in the boom years.
"All countries have benefited from the free market system," said Jurgen Stark, vice president of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank. "I am a little worried about all the talk about a 'new financial architecture.' What's new? What would it accomplish?"
The upshot is that although the metaphor is always "new financial architecture," the proposals for the financial system are usually fairly small-bore.
"I think architecture is a bad word," said John Heimann, who recently stepped down as chairman of Merrill Lynch Global Capital Markets to head a new bank supervisor training institute. "What you need is more attention to the plumbing and electricity. That's not as dramatic, but it's the plumbing and electricity that make the house work."
A number of these kinds of changes are under discussion. At the global level, the 22 leading industrialized countries proposed 44 initiatives, ranging from an international accounting code to better supervision of banks, insurance firms and brokerages.
Some countries are trying to take dull but important steps to reduce the risks of crises: improving their legal systems; creating a modern bankruptcy structure; fighting corruption, and hiring bank supervisors. But these steps often run into entrenched local interests, and the progress is slow.
"Have the lessons been tough enough so that people in individual countries are moving to actually fix their financial market infrastructure?" asked William McDonough, president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank and chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. "Probably not. Should the effort be made? Yes. Definitely.
"Is there a simple or common solution to these types of problems? I don't think so."
 
The Danger of Hubris
So what are the lessons of Asia and Russia as they apply to the American economy?
There is not much agreement on that. The lessons on which a consensus has emerged seem surprisingly obvious and modest for an economic catastrophe that has destroyed so much wealth and transformed the prospects of nations from Indonesia to Russia to Brazil. Historians may eventually elicit more subtle conclusions, but for now the lessons are almost embarrassingly straightforward.
One is the danger of hubris. The crisis arose in part because emerging-market countries built up too confidently, because Western investors and bankers were too optimistic in their assessments of risk and because Western Governments were too convinced that they had the right solutions. Throughout the crisis, expert predictions have invariably been wrong and even miracle economies have crashed.
A second lesson is the importance of prudence in the banking system, the pillar of any modern economy. Financial institutions have generally been better supervised in America than in many other countries, but the near-failure of Long-Term Capital Management underscored the risks even in the most sophisticated and best-supervised market in the West.
And a third lesson is the danger of stock and property manias. Many Asians say glumly that they have learned the hard way the importance of scrutinizing the foundations of any economy, however dazzling it seems. And as they say that, they look -- jealously, resentfully and nervously -- at the American economy and especially at the United States stock market.
Still, there is a dispute about whether that lesson applies to the United States. America has far less corruption and cronyism than Russia or Indonesia, and no one thinks that America has built a bubble on the scale of Japan's in 1990, so some analysts argue that any parallel with Asia is ridiculous.
"I do not accept the comparison between Asia and the United States," said Abby Joseph Cohen, co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman Sachs & Company and so far one of the most bullish and accurate of Wall Street strategists. Ms. Cohen emphasized that while Asia's boom was fueled by cheap credit -- artificially low interest rates -- this has not been true of the United States. In addition, she noted that American accounting and banking standards are more rigorous than those abroad.
"The Asian economy has been having difficulty recovering because banks have large portfolios of underperforming loans," she said. "But here the level of bank regulation has been much higher. Regulators are really paying attention, and shareholders are paying attention."
Economists and policy makers in Asia, with a biting skepticism that comes from seeing their own economies swell and pop, are often contemptuous of the American explanations. They point to the banking crisis in Texas in the late 1980's as an example of the foolishness that even highly regulated banks can engage in.
"If you look at it objectively," said Mr. Sakakibara, "the United States now has a bubble."
Skeptics like him say that the United States has followed the Asian pattern of an upward spiral whereby higher stock prices lead to rising investment and consumer spending, which leads to higher stock prices and pushes the spiral even higher. Moreover, the United States is financing its growth the Thai and Indonesian way -- by borrowing from abroad, although it has the advantage of being able to borrow in its own currency.
The American stock market has also soared to its highest ratio of market capitalization to gross national product (140 percent) ever recorded in history, a ratio that compares with a previous peak of 81 percent in 1929. The American ratio is more than twice as high as Indonesia's or Brazil's at the time their crises hit.
In the broadest sense, one of the central problems in Asia and Russia was that investors were so used to success that they did not contemplate catastrophe. In the same way, the long bull market in the West since 1982 means that most stock market investors cannot conceive of how devastating a bear market can be, even if the market turbulence in the fall did shake them up.
Charles P. Kindleberger, an economic historian and author of the book "Manias, Panics and Crashes," said he was "troubled by the volatility" of the American stock market today. "I've been thinking for two or three years that the market was too high," he added. "When it collapsed in August, I thought it might be becoming sensible again. But it turned out that the Fed reduced interest rates three times, and the market returned to its previous level."
Mr. Kindleberger also expressed concern over the parallel with Japan in the late 1980's. In the face of a global slowdown, Japan cut interest rates to stimulate its economy, and the result was even more frenzied speculation, which eventually collapsed and proved catastrophic to Japan and the world economy.
So, looking at the financial crisis, John Kenneth Galbraith, the nonagenarian Harvard economist, concludes that "the overwhelming lesson is to be aware of the history" of speculative mania, and to be "further aware that the United States is also part of the history."
"The speculative mood," he added, "can pervade Wall Street as much as Tokyo or Malaysia."
 
Explaining a Crisis
 Economists and government officials have offered an abundance of neat explanations for the crisis. Some attribute it to crony capitalism and fundamental weaknesses in overseas countries. Others point to the fickleness of international capital flows and the entire global economic system. Still others say that the culprit was the United States and the monetary fund, or alternatively the venality and incompetence of governments in Russia, or Indonesia, or other countries.
Economists will dispute for years which factors leading to the crisis were necessary, and which sufficient, and which tangential. But the causes seem so many and so intertwined that it is difficult to fit them together in any neat equation.
Moreover, for all the talk in recent months about grand solutions to crises, there is a growing sense that no good answer may be out there, and that one price of economic development has perhaps been a loss of control over the markets that nurtured the development.
Rising prosperity in general has led to what seems an unstoppable trend toward steadily greater oceans of capital sloshing around the globe, and all that cash in turn creates new instability. For all the post-cold war sense of triumphalism, for all of the high-speed computer networks that in an instant can graph the trend in the yen-dollar rate, fundamentally the world's economies come across as corks bobbing in the sea. And, unless the United States economy was badly hit, it would be difficult to imagine world leaders galvanized to devise a new approach to international finance.
Some of the key causes of this crisis may lie not in economic ratios but human nature. In explaining the way that international economic crises have rippled around the globe, historians have often concluded that the most important factor was psychology. The same may be true today.
Computers and "rocket scientists" and first-rate research have yet to overcome the instinctive tendency of markets to overshoot up and down. The herds went from mania to panic in an instant, and this process trampled Asia and Russia. It is also what some economists worry about when they look at the United States.
"The old human emotions of fear and euphoria still prevail," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the former head of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. Ms. Tyson said that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, had once made the same point to her, noting that if one looked at a graph of jumps and dips in stock prices, it would be impossible to tell whether one was looking at the 1890's or the 1990's.
The crisis suggests that the old high-tech tools are still in frail human hands.
Mr. Galbraith, musing on the crisis, said: "I wouldn't be as severe on the regulators as on those being regulated. When you are dealing with insanity, one looks first at the insane and then at those supervising them."
 
Back on the Home Front
In Cantrall, not far from Mr. Burrus's hog farm, Mary Jo Paoni is planning to retire in April from her job as a secretary. Whatever the uncertainties, and despite her pension fund's loss of $2.7 million on Indonesian stocks, it has still ridden the boom in American stocks and is in strong shape. Mrs. Paoni and her generation of Americans will be able to retire without difficulty.
Yet she is also embedded in her community, and these days it is showing signs of vulnerability. The corn that surrounds her home sold for $5 a bushel two years ago; now the global economic difficulties have sent corn plunging to $2.12.
"We're worried," she said, exclaiming: "Good God, look what's on TV now! How about the layoffs!"
The restructuring and downsizing strike a particular nerve in the Paoni household because the supermarket chain where Mrs. Paoni's husband, George, worked for 32 years was bought out by a distant company just nine months before his retirement. He did not lose his job as a meat cutter, but he lost his holiday pay and five weeks' vacation.
Mrs. Paoni is apprehensive about stock market levels and also about local signs of disquiet: With farmers in trouble, tractor sales have slumped, and the nearby John Deere plant has announced layoffs. Banks are nervously checking their exposure to the agricultural sector. And Mrs. Paoni, after some reflection and several hours of interviews, has decided that she is linked to the global crisis.
"I sit here in this kitchen and say I don't have anything do with Asia, but I do," she said. "There's always some tentacles out there. Asia will definitely have an effect on Iowa and Illinois."
 
Global Contagion
 
MONDAY
The new economic landscape and the people it touched.
 
TUESDAY
How the United States, seeking freer capital flow, knocked on poorer nations' doors and got a warm welcome.
 
YESTERDAY
From Asia to Russia to Brazil, markets intertwined in sometimes dangerous ways.
 
TODAY
The autopsy of a world crisis, and what it tells some experts about avoiding future ills.
 
For past coverage of this issue, including the other articles in this series, visit The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/international
 
This series represents the work of 10 New York Times correspondents reporting from eight countries over five months. Major contributors to this article include David E. Sanger in Washington and David Barboza in Illinois. Also contributing were Seth Faison in China; Edward Wyatt in New York; Sheryl WuDunn in Thailand and Japan; Jeff Gerth in Washington, and Michael Wines in Russia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowds at an illegal job market in Beijing hint at China's problem: not currency crisis but unemployment. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); SIRIVAT VORAVETVUTHIKUN -- This Thai businessman's lavish real estate development went bankrupt, so now he develops sandwiches. "It's illegal to have pushcarts," he said, explaining why he uses a shoulder-held box. (Peter Charlesworth/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. A10); CHARLES E. BURRUS -- The crunch in Thailand has squeezed this Midwesterner, who now has too many hogs and not enough welcoming Asian chopsticks. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A10); SALAMET -- Hard times in Indonesia have turned people against one another. Mr. Salamet, the rickshaw driver (carrying bat), went with a group of neighbors to hunt "ninja,"'outsiders viewed as sorcerers, who have been blamed for a series of anti-Muslim killings. (Stuart Isett/Sygma for The New York Times)(pg. A11); Mary Jo and George Paoni, Cantrall, Ill.(Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A11)
 
Chart: "Money, Money Everywhere"
Mary Jo Paoni and her husband, George, consider themselves plain folks from the heartland. They worked hard, put three boys through college and now enter their retirement years with savings in various types of investments. The tendrils of the global market reach into their portfolio as well as into Mrs. Paoni's pension fund, and minute amounts of their money can be traced into various investments all over the world. Here is a partial breakdown:
 
Investments controlled by Mr. and Mrs. Paoni.
 
A. G. EDWARDS
Savings invested through A. G. Edwards.
 
 
STOCKS
Coca-Cola (1.6%),
Disney (9.9%),
McDonald's (3.5%)
 
IRA's/MUTUAL FUNDS
(43.9%)
 
MONEY MARKET FUND (9%)
A. G. Edwards buys commercial paper from major American banks like J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan, and some portion of that money is invested abroad.
 
For example, J. P. MORGAN was well known as one of
the most active sellers of derivatives in Asia. It traded $1 billion worth of Thai baht in the fall of 1996, according to court documents.
 
In addition, BANGKOK LAND, a Thai real estate development company, borrowed $2.4 billion from banks. The company owns Muang Thong Thani, a modern ghost town near Bangkok airport that was supposed to be a city of 700,000.
 
 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
Savings plan from Mrs. Paoni's job with the State of Illinois. Invested in a variety of mutual funds and making up 31.6 percent of Mr. and Mrs. Paoni's savings.*
 
Investments not controlled by Mr. and Mrs. Paoni.
 
ILLINOIS STATE PENSION FUND
Mrs. Paoni will receive her pension from this fund when she retires later this year. The fund has some investments in emerging markets and Mrs. Paoni is thus involved in some colorful transactions. The selection below illustrates a minuscule portion of the fund's holdings.
 
THAI INTERNATIONAL FUND
THAI EURO FUND
BANGKOK LAND
BRINSON EMERGING MARKETS FUND
 
GUM
Russia's premier department store, whose stock tumbled when Russian devalued the ruble in 1998 and import prices tripled. GUM is currently a takeover candidate.
 
 
BRINSON EMERGING MARKETS FUND
 
ARACRUZ CELLULOSE S. A.
A Brazilian pulp and paper company hit by the drop in commodity prices. Overcapacity, caused in part by new Indonesian mills, have driven pulp prices to $420 a ton from $850 a ton in 1995.
 
PEREGRINE INVESTMENTS
A Hong Kong investment bank that came from nowhere to report $25 billion in revenues in 1996, only to collapse in 1998 with more than 2,000 creditors owed more than $4 billion. Illinois Pension Fund's investment in that company is currently worthless.
 
*Percentages do not add to 100 due to rounding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); THAILAND (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; RUSSIA; BRAZIL; CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); THAILAND (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLD WAR (86%); PORK (79%); ANIMALS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); TRENDS (68%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



393 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Israeli Guards Kill 3 Kurds at Berlin Consulate
Israeli guards opened fire on dozens of Kurds trying to occupy the Israeli Consulate in Berlin, killing 3 people and wounding 16 in the worst violence since protests erupted throughout Europe over the capture of a Kurdish rebel leader, Abdullah Ocalan. The Kurds apparently chose their target in response to rumors that the Mossad had played a role in the capture of Mr. Ocalan. Embassies and consulates of various nations elsewhere remained occupied by Kurds, and new demonstrations occurred in some cities. A1 

The State Department issued a worldwide travel warning. A8
 
U.S. Boosts Pressure on Serbs
The Pentagon will send 51 additional aircraft as part of an effort to pressure President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to accept a peace agreement. A14
 
Israeli Writer Leads Protest
Amos Oz, the best-known author in Israel, has signed up as a member of the Reform Jewish movement, after a huge rally by ultra-Orthodox Jews against Supreme Court rulings. A15
 
Slain Guard's Kin Issue Plea
Relatives of the slain Swiss Guard commander, Lieut. Col. Alois Estermann, left, and his wife, who was killed with him, issued a letter imploring journalists to stop printing rumors about the couple's marriage. A13
 
Mutilation Sentence in France
A Paris court sentenced an African woman to eight years in prison for cutting the genitals of 48 girls. The jury also convicted 27 parents, who received suspended sentences. A3
 
Romanian Militant Arrested
The leader of Romania's coal miners was arrested after clashes between riot police and miners left one miner dead, dozens injured and more than 500 arrested. A12
 
Venezuelan Tax Changes
President Hugo Chavez said he would seek special authority from Congress to impose tax and spending changes by emergency decree, in an effort to bolster the deficit-ridden economy. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-19
 
Oregon Reports 15 Deaths In First Year of Suicide Law
Oregon reported that in the first year of the only legally sanctioned assisted-suicide program in the world, 15 terminally ill people ended their lives with lethal medication. A1
 
Putting the Brakes on Light
Scientists said they had found a way to slow down light, which travels through empty space at 186,171 miles per second, to about 38 m.p.h. A1
 
The Prosecution Rests
The Los Angeles County District Attorney's office said it would no longer try to send Elmer (Geronimo) Pratt, a former leader of the Black Panther Party, back to prison. Mr. Pratt, who has maintained his innocence, spent 27 years behind bars for a 1968 murder and robbery. A16
 
Harassment Charged in Boston
Federal housing officials said they were filing their first charges ever of "systemic discrimination," accusing the Boston Housing Authority of failing to stop the harassment of nine minority families in two mostly white housing projects. A16
 
Desegregation Suit Settled
The San Francisco school district settled a class-action lawsuit by Chinese-American students seeking to end the city's school desegregation efforts based on race. A17
 
G.O.P. Plan for Social Security
The chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees Social Security offered details of his approach to shoring up the system. A18
 
Labor's Campaign Plan
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. approved a $40 million-plus, two-year program of political grass-roots lobbying and campaigning. A19
 
New Emissions Standards
The E.P.A. plans to propose tough new standards for gasoline cleanliness and for tailpipe emissions from cars and light trucks. A18
 
Ruling in Favor of Cholestin
A Federal judge has ordered the F.D.A. to lift its ban on the imported cholesterol-reducing substance, a ruling that may hamper efforts to regulate herbal remedies. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Demands of Fund-Raising Lead a Senator to Retire
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, 75, Democrat of New Jersey, said he would not run in 2000 because he did not want to spend the next two years raising $12 million. A1
 
Eight Democrats and seven Republicans quickly expressed interest in running. B10
 
Troopers Under U.S. Scrutiny
Federal civil rights officials said they were investigating whether the New Jersey State Police illegally target black motorists. B1
 
Reviewing Inmate Complaints
Officials who say abuse was not commonplace in the Nassau County jail and lawyers for inmates who said they were brutalized during the last eight years all found something to support their positions in documents obtained from county lawyers. The beating death of an inmate last month is under investigation. B1
 
Delays in 911 Backup System
Police Commissioner Howard Safir said a full-service 911 backup center was two years from completion. B3
 
Longtime Union Leader Departs
Stanley Hill retired as executive director of District Council 37, the umbrella union for 120,000 New York City municipal employees. The parent union forced him to take an unpaid leave 11 weeks ago. B4
 
NEEDIEST CASES B6
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Plan for New Arts Money
The new chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts said most of the additional $52 million in his agency's proposed budget would go to Challenge America, a project to address Congressional concerns over the distribution of arts funds. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Strawberry's Perspective
Darryl Strawberry, in Tampa, Fla., to prepare for the opening of the Yankees' spring training, discussed a future made more uncertain by his fight against colon cancer. D3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Accusations Are Withdrawn
The economist and columnist Paul Krugman withdrew assertions he made last week that the financier and speculator George Soros had engaged in insider trading of Brazil's currency, the real. C1
 
Heinz Announces Overhaul
H. J. Heinz will revamp global operations, lay off nearly 10 percent of its work force and sell its Weight Watchers International division. C1
 
I.B.M. to Offer Linux System
I.B.M. is to announce today that it will soon ship its Netfinity line of network server computers with the Linux operating system installed alongside Microsoft's Windows NT. Several other computer manufacturers have also decided to sell machines that run Linux. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
OBITUARIES C23
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Pursuing peace in Kosovo; Mr. Lautenberg bows out; a deal on Lockerbie; Verlyn Klinkenborg on city fog.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
TV Listings E10
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather A19
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); SENTENCING (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); ARRESTS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); MURDER (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); SUICIDE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); JOURNALISM (73%); VERDICTS (72%); JURY TRIALS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (69%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); RELIGION (67%); COAL MINING (64%); DEATH & DYING (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



394 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Senator Lautenberg Says He Won't Run For a Fourth Term

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 17

 BODY:
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, the New Jersey Democrat who vowed last fall that he would seek a fourth term in 2000, announced today that he would not run for re-election after all.
In a news conference here, Mr. Lautenberg, 75, said he was stepping down only because he did not want to spend the next two years raising money for a campaign. 
 Mr. Lautenberg's surprise announcement prompted immediate speculation in both parties about who might run for the seat, which he has held since 1982. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican who lost a close Senate race to Bill Bradley in 1990, has been frequently mentioned as a potential Senate candidate.
Other Republicans who are said to be interested include Representative Marge Roukema; James F. Treffinger, the Essex County Executive, and Richard A. Zimmer, the former Congressman who lost a Senate race to Robert G. Torricelli in 1996. Among Democrats, Representative Robert Menendez and Susan Bass Levin, the Mayor of Cherry Hill, are strong possibilities, party leaders said.
For her part, the Governor sounded more interested in the possibility of another run for the Senate today than she had in the past. "I rule nothing out," Mrs. Whitman said during a news conference in Hamilton Township, where she was helping to open a new train station. "It is going to be a personal determination, and what I think will be best for the state."
Mrs. Whitman's current term, her second, expires in 2001 and state law limits her to two consecutive terms.
Depending on who runs for his seat, Mr. Lautenberg's decision to retire could add New Jersey to the list of states where highly competitive Senate races are expected next year. One of those is New York, where Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is considered the top Republican candidate and Hillary Rodham Clinton has been urged to run as a Democrat.
Mr. Lautenberg said in November that he would seek re-election because he believed that the Democrats would regain control of the Senate. If that happened, Mr. Lautenberg said, he would have a good chance of becoming chairman of the powerful Budget Committee, where he is now the ranking minority member.
In explaining his new decision today, he said fund-raising would consume too much time. "I did not want to sit there all those hours of each day asking for money when in fact there is good solid work to be done," he said, adding, "It would distract me from the job I was sent to Washington to do."
Mr. Lautenberg is a multimillionaire who has spent heavily in past campaigns, but he said he did not want to spend more of his own assets on a race that he estimated would cost at least $12 million.
Other Democrats, speaking privately about whether Mr. Lautenberg would run again, had also mentioned fund-raising problems, noting that he had raised hardly any money for a campaign that is fast approaching. Mr. Lautenberg raised only about $70,000 in 1998 and had just over $500,000 in his campaign war chest, according to Federal records released this month.
He said today that he has not worked hard to raise money out of deference to other New Jersey Democrats whose races would be held before his.
Democratic leaders also said that after 16 years in Washington, Mr. Lautenberg was out of touch with the state party and would have had a hard time building organizational support. His prickly personality and his highly public battle last year with New Jersey's junior senator, Mr. Torricelli, might also have impeded his fund-raising efforts, they said.
Mr. Lautenberg, who is considered an intelligent and hard-working legislator, is best known for his work on issues like tobacco control, drunken driving, the environment and the budget. He pushed through a bill that banned smoking on domestic airplane flights, and another that prohibited ocean dumping of sewage and plastics.
He has pressed for the cleanup of Superfund sites, secured millions of dollars in Federal transportation funds for New Jersey and fought for tougher laws against drunken driving.
But to Mr. Lautenberg's constant frustration, he has been overshadowed by more prominent -- and more telegenic -- Senators from New Jersey: first Mr. Bradley, who worked beside Mr. Lautenberg for 14 years, and now Mr. Torricelli.
For the first half of 1998, Mr. Lautenberg and Mr. Torricelli barely exchanged a word and publicly complained about each other. They finally declared a detente in May, at Mr. Lautenberg's urging.
But while Mr. Lautenberg devoted much of his news conference today to praising other Democrats, he did not mention Mr. Torricelli. Asked to characterize their relationship, Mr. Lautenberg said in a flat tone, "It's O.K."
But Mr. Lautenberg only briefly mentioned his failure to capture the spotlight, saying: "I would like to get more attention for the things I've done, sure. But people know."
Mr. Torricelli said in a telephone interview from California that Mr. Lautenberg had been especially effective in pushing through legislation and securing funds that had a direct effect on New Jersey residents. "I don't think there is a county in New Jersey without a road, a railroad, a bridge or a mass transit project where Frank Lautenberg did not deliver the Federal funds," Mr. Torricelli said. "He should be very proud of his public career."
Mr. Bradley was also complimentary, saying Mr. Lautenberg "was an effective advocate for those things that directly touched people's lives."
Mr. Lautenberg was raised in the industrial city of Paterson, where his father, a Polish immigrant, worked in the silk mills. He enlisted in the Army after high school and served in the Signal Corps in Europe during World War II. After the war, he used the G.I. Bill to attend Columbia University, graduating in 1949 with a degree in economics.
In the early 1950's, Mr. Lautenberg helped found a storefront company in Paterson that provided payroll services to businesses. The company, Automatic Data Processing, evolved into one of the largest computing services companies in the world. It built a fortune for Mr. Lautenberg, who used some of his assets and his fierce competitive streak to fight his way into elected office in 1982, when he defeated Representative Millicent Fenwick.
During that race, Mr. Lautenberg questioned the 72-year-old Congresswoman's "fitness" and "her ability to do the job." But in recent years, Mr. Lautenberg has dismissed questions about his own age, bragging that he could ski faster than his four children. Today, he stressed that age had nothing to do with his decision to step down.
"They know I don't tire easily," he said. "If I were any younger, I'd be dangerous."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg announced yesterday in Newark he was relinquishing the seat he has held since 1982. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BUDGETS (71%); 

PERSON: LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN); GOODNOUGH, ABBY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); ROUKEMA, MARGE (REPR); TREFFINGER, JAMES (COUNTY EXEC); ZIMMER, RICHARD A; MENENDEZ, ROBERT (REPR); LEVIN, SUSAN BASS (MAYOR) FRANK LAUTENBERG (93%); BOB MENENDEZ (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



395 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: UKRAINE TREATY RATIFIED -- The Upper House of Parliament voted to ratify a treaty that effectively abandons the Kremlin's claims on Crimea on condition that Ukraine's legislature guarantee that the Russian fleet can maintain its existing fleet there. Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov had sought the treaty in part to brake Ukraine's plans to join NATO. Michael Wines (NYT) 

RUSSIA: BUDGET CLEARS KEY HURDLE -- The upper house approved a 1999 budget that calls for sharp spending cuts and sets ambitious revenue targets. Although many economists regard the budget as unrealistic, approval reflects a measure of support for Prime Minister Primakov and now requires only President Boris N. Yeltsin's signature. (Reuters)
 
POLAND: NATO ENTRY APPROVED -- Parliament ratified the NATO treaty, one of the last steps for the former Soviet bloc nation to enter the Western military alliance. Poland, with the Czech Republic and Hungary, will formally join the defense pact during its 50th anniversary ceremony on March 12 at the Harry S. Truman Library in Independence, Mo., where Truman announced the formation of NATO in 1949. (AP)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: ANTAGONISTS MEET -- Officials of the Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein met privately in Belfast for the first time and discussed problems in the peace effort. Leaders of the Unionists, the largest Protestant party, and Sinn Fein, the political wing of the I.R.A., said that the meeting was useful, but that they had failed to make progress on the bitter dispute over I.R.A. disarmament. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
EUROPEAN UNION: END TO DUTY-FREE SALES -- The European Commission repeated its determination to outlaw tax-free sales of liquor, tobacco and other goods by July. Duty-free shop operators said they would continue to campaign against the decision, which they argue will cost jobs. The Commission said the move would generate $2.2 billion in taxes. Alan Cowell (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CUBA: DOUBLE-BARRELED CRACKDOWN -- The National Assembly has approved harsher penalties to control political opposition and attack rising crime. One measure introduces the death penalty for drug-trafficking and life imprisonment for offenses like violent assault. Another calls for sentences of up to 30 years for those found guilty of "collaborating" with the United States. (Reuters)
 
MEXICO: HALTING FOREST FIRES -- Chiapas state has proposed a law to fine and jail farmers who start forest fires by setting fields on fire to prepare for the next planting. Last spring fires in Chiapas swept across 500,000 acres, consuming precious rain forests. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: INVESTIGATORS FREED -- Right-wing paramilitary forces have released nine Government investigators who were abducted and held for a day while they were searching for a mass grave in Antioquia province, BBC News reported. The investigators were had been searching for a pit that was said to contain victims of political violence.
 
ASIA
 
PHILIPPINES: CHINESE FISHERMEN FREED -- Twenty Chinese fishermen arrested in the disputed Spratly Islands late last year have been freed by a local court, the Philippines Foreign Office said. The Chinese had been charged with poaching. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
SYRIA: APOLOGY TO THE U.S. -- Syria and Washington have ended a dispute over the storming of the American Embassy in Damascus on Dec. 19 by demonstrators angered over the bombing of Iraq, diplomats said. Under an accord this week, Syria apologized to the United States and will pay $500,000 for damages. (AP)
 
KUWAIT, IRAQ: REPARATIONS FROM BAGHDAD -- A U.N. committee is to hand over $84 million in reparations for victims of the 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, itsofficial news agency said. The fund is drawn from Iraqi oil exports. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ISRAEL: U.S. WARNING ON COMPUTER PIRACY -- Israel has failed to crack down on counterfeit music CD's and computer software and could face trade sanctions later this year, Ambassador Edward S. Walker said. After Israel was placed on an annual watch list of intellectual-property violators in April, the Government promised to pass a new copyright law and pursue vendors of pirated CD's. William A. Orme Jr. (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: TORTURER GETS AMNESTY -- A Cape Town police officer who specialized in torturing anti-apartheid activists by wrapping wet bags over their heads and repeatedly bringing them to the point of suffocation has been granted amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The officer, Jeffrey Benzien, had told the panel that the method was so effective that his victims usually "talked" within half an hour. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: CONSERVATIVE BUDGET -- The Government presented a plan to increase taxes on cigarettes and liquor but offer tax cuts for corporations and consumers. With the nation's second post-apartheid elections expected in May, the Government appeared to have resisted the temptation to buy votes for the ruling African National Congress. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
SIERRA LEONE: PEACEKEEPERS ARRESTED -- About 100 soldiers of the Nigerian-led West African peacekeeping force have been arrested after allegations of summary executions during a rebel offensive in Freetown last month, a U.N. official said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CONGO: TWO-MONTH LULL ENDS -- Rebels and Rwandan troops pressed toward Mbuji-Mayi, 580 miles east of the capital, Kinshasa. Capturing the town -- the world's biggest source of industrial diamonds -- would strip the Government of a major source of revenue. (AP)
 Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (75%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); SINN FEIN (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); SINN FEIN (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREST FIRES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (76%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CRIMINAL FINES (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (64%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (63%); FIRES (63%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); RAIN FORESTS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



396 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Split as Many Cling To the Impeachment Issue

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
As many Republicans struggle to move beyond impeachment, they find their party fractured by a hard reality: many other Republicans, particularly conservatives, do not want to move beyond impeachment.
Those frustrated by months of polling that showed impeachment was causing the public to see the party as partisan and mean-spirited hoped that President Clinton's acquittal would give them an opportunity to change the subject. But a vocal minority are pressing forward, in as public a manner as possible, with the argument that Mr. Clinton should be held accountable for his conduct. They want the issue to remain very much alive. 
 These Republicans do not think they are committing political suicide. Sooner or later, they contend, the voters will punish the Democrats for the Lewinsky scandal. They say the President's poll ratings have been kept artificially high, largely because of the unrelenting economic boom, and will fall once the economy turns or if scandal again shakes the White House.
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, foreseeing a dramatic change in public sentiment, says voters hungry for elected officials of moral character will reward Republicans at the ballot box next year for having taken on Mr. Clinton.
And, in an assessment shared by any number of Congressional conservatives, particularly in the House, Craig Shirley, a veteran conservative public relations operative, said, "It would be horrible to run away from the Clinton scandals, because you are giving up something that is important to the base of the Republican Party and you're suggesting that we were somehow wrong in going after Clinton."
Paul Weyrich, head of the conservative Free Congress Foundation, added: "Everyone says, 'Oh, this is poison, and people shouldn't talk about it.' I think they have to. It's one of the most important events of the second half of the 20th century." Declining to address the Clinton scandal, Mr. Weyrich said, would be like "sweeping something under the rug which is going to come back to bite us."
Whatever the conservatives' arguments, the White House sees impeachment as an albatross for Republicans, and the issue has delighted Presidential advisers. They vow to cast the Republican Party as an extremist-controlled organization bent on prolonging the impeachment ordeal.
"There's an opportunity," said Mark Penn, the President's pollster, "for a national message against the Republican Party: that it is too extreme and its leadership is too far to the right. And that national message could have a lot of impact come 2000."
Mr. Penn scoffed at the notion advanced by Mr. Lott and others that Mr. Clinton's ratings might sag.
"If you were a Martian and you came down and just read the polls," he said, "you would not know that the Monica Lewinsky scandal existed. He was in good shape before, during and after, because the public fundamentally separated this issue from his performance as President."
Many Republicans do fear that the party will be defined by impeachment. Party leaders, including several governors, worry that the Democrats will seize on the Republicans' handling of the Clinton prosecution to win back Congress in 2000. They have warned their colleagues to drop the issue, arguing that the party's No. 1 priority should be an ambitious issues agenda.
"What we should be talking about is for us to move on," Gov. George E. Pataki of New York said in an interview today, "and in moving on to focus on the core beliefs of our party." Instead, Mr. Pataki said, the Republicans now look like Yugoslavia, where "they're still fighting the battles of the 11th century."
Dave Carney, a longtime Republican strategist in New Hampshire, was almost testy in advising the party to let go of impeachment.
"The Republicans who are fixated on this," Mr. Carney said, "these people need to get a life. I don't know what drug treatment they need. I don't know what psychotherapy they need. But the country's moved beyond this. What about free trade? Crime in the streets? Kosovo? There are other issues out there."
Mr. Carney predicted that impeachment would be so far from voters' minds next year that neither party would benefit, or suffer, from the issue. " 'Vote for me in 2000 because I voted to keep Bill Clinton in office' -- that's not going to work on a bumper sticker or in a commercial," he said. "Or, 'Vote for me in 2000 because I tried to get rid of the bum.' That's ridiculous."
One Republican Governor, Edward T. Schafer of North Dakota, put the argument this way: "I don't think you use it as a weapon. You don't say, 'Oh, there's a Democratic candidate, and they're a member of the party that lied and cheated and then acquitted the perpetrator.' There's going to be an underlying issue of what the President did wrong, but we should point to the positive aspects of our candidates."
One troublesome effect of the issue for Republicans as they try to keep control of Congress and regain the White House is that it will make it that much easier for Democrats to raise money and recruit candidates, for both state and national office.
Gov. Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts, a Republican, said his party had to be especially aggressive in countering the Democrats' recruitment drives. "For the Republican Party at the state level to succeed," he said, "I think we need a national message." In 1998, he added, Republicans were "consumed with this impeachment thing; they weren't even out there advocating tax cuts."
Compounding the perils for Republicans nationally is that even with the party's biggest lightning rod, Newt Gingrich, now gone, some of the most vociferous proponents of impeachment are among the House Republican leadership, including Representatives Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, and Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. In fact, Mr. DeLay's constituents are encouraging his continued attacks on Mr. Clinton. Next month he will be honored with the 1999 Political Courage Award at the Harris County Republican Party's Lincoln Day Dinner.
Ed Brookover, who stepped down after the November elections as political director of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said Republican candidates would face the classic dilemma: whether to appeal to the conservatives whose support can be crucial in primaries, or to the broader electorate whose votes are needed in November.
"There's always the constant argument inside the party -- whether you play to the base or play to the middle," Mr. Brookover said. "A winning campaign figures out how to do both. But I don't know if we've yet landed on a winning way."
Around the country, Democrats have begun plotting how to capitalize on the Republicans' quandary. Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, is not even facing re-election until 2002, but Democrats are already making him a target for his votes to convict the President.
"Here's a guy who has always portrayed himself as a moderate," said Jim Edmundson, chairman of the Oregon Democratic Party. "But he is not. This will leave a residual feeling among moderate voters that he is out of touch with them."
Mr. Smith, the only statewide elected Republican in Oregon, acknowledges the high cost of his votes in a state that tends toward moderation. "I'll account for it the rest of my public life," he told reporters.
Perry Atkinson, the Oregon Republican chairman, said Mr. Smith had cemented his support with conservatives by voting guilty on both counts. Had he voted not guilty on one, as he had talked of doing, "it would have sent mixed messages," Mr. Atkinson said.
Maybe so. But looking ahead, Richard N. Bond, former Republican national chairman, finds his own message more pertinent: "The Republican Party had a President who the entire country believed was a lying adulterer. And they couldn't convince their own Republicans to do something about it. What does that say about the efficacy of the issue?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ;HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS CONSERVATISM (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ETHICS (75%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; BERKE, RICHARD L; LOTT, TRENT (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999



397 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 18; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Daughters Of Darkness Who Dream Of the Light

 BODY:
"The Apple" was shown as part of last year's New York Film Festival. Following are excerpts from Lawrence Van Gelder's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Sept. 30. The film opens today in Manhattan.
Potent symbolism linked to a bizarre story rooted in fact, set in Iran and laden with political, social and generational overtones makes "The Apple" one of the more intriguingly resonant features of the 36th New York Film Festival. 
 This Iranian-French co-production about a repressive father and his daughters is the work of Samira Makhmalbaf, the 17-year-old daughter of the Iranian filmmaker Mohsen Makhmalbaf, whose artful "Gabbeh" made a striking impression at the festival in 1996.
Released as Iran is torn between the isolationism of religious fundamentalists and efforts to open the nation to the world, "The Apple" re- enacts the story of an uneducated, unemployed, impoverished 65-year-old man with a blind wife; he has kept his twin daughters locked behind walls and bars for all of their 12 years. Understood on one level as an argument against the old ways and the repression of women or on another as a plea for greater national freedom, "The Apple" possesses a significance beyond the simple outlines of its story.
These children can barely communicate, possess no skills and know nothing of the world outside.
"They must have a future, a role in society," says the female social worker who responds to a petition by neighbors for urgent action.
In answer to the complaints, the father insists that he has been slandered and dishonored, especially when the story makes headlines. "It's all lies," he says, making an assortment of excuses: his wife's blindness and his need to earn a living; the possibility that neighboring boys could defile the girls and dishonor him.
The social worker extracts a promise that the father will free them. When he reneges, she returns, sets the girls loose and locks the father in his house. But she arms him with a hacksaw and tells him that unless he cuts through the bars or breaks the lock, the girls will be taken away.
As for the girls, their greatest dream is to possess an apple, and in their journey outside home, they -- and eventually their mother -- meet a small boy who tantalizes them with an apple laden with symbolism that he dangles on a string from the end of a stick just beyond their reach.
Working from a screenplay by her father and using the actual family involved in this case, Ms. Makhmalbaf elicits remarkably unaffected performances. If there is a certain repetitiousness in the early part of this account, there is also much natural humor and keen observation of the behavior of children once the girls begin to venture into the world.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zahra Naderi in "The Apple," a film about contemporary Iran. (New Yorker Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: APPLE, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK FILM WORKS INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (70%); FUNDAMENTALISM (68%); BLINDNESS (67%); LIBEL & SLANDER (63%); 

PERSON: MAKHMALBAF, MOHSEN; MAKHMALBAF, SAMIRA; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



398 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 5; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Autos More Affordable, Bank Says

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
NEW vehicles were more affordable, on average, last year than in any year since 1980, a Comerica Bank index indicates.
It took 24.6 weeks of median pretax family income to buy an average-priced new vehicle in 1998, compared with 25.5 weeks a year earlier, according to the Detroit bank's auto affordability index, which was released this week. The average vehicle price was slightly more than $20,000. 
 The index, compiled annually from Commerce Department and Federal Reserve Bank data, is based on the total cost of a vehicle divided by median family income.
"Last year, vehicles were at the most affordable level since 1980, when new vehicle purchases absorbed an average 23.5 weeks of income," said David Littmann, the bank's chief economist.
Mr. Littman said one reason for the change was income growth of 5 percent. Another is that prices for some cars were lower than in 1997.
Last year, the Ford Motor Company, the General Motors Corporation and the Chrysler Corporation, now DaimlerChrysler, each said they would virtually freeze sticker prices on 1999 models. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMERICA BANK COMERICA INC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMERICA BANK US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



399 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 38; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
A Romantic Pushes Minimalism to the Maximum

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Ronald Bladen may have been one of the founding fathers of Minimalism, as some have called him, but that depends on what you mean by Minimalism.
Bladen (1918-88) started making simplified, industrial-looking sculptures in the 1960's. But Minimalism in the most thoroughgoing sense meant more than just extreme formal economy. At its most radical, Minimalism tried to eliminate any dimension other than that of the immediate, material present, forcing concentration on the physical facts of the object and the space it occupied. 
 But Bladen, who was born in Vancouver and spent his formative years in San Francisco, where the Abstract Expressionist Clyfford Still was the presiding spiritual force, was too much the romantic poet to be a pure Minimalist. An interesting if not wholly satisfying retrospective at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center makes that clear.
Covering five decades, the exhibition presents a curiously diverse oeuvre. It moves from a set of Symbolist graphite drawings from the 1940's, to some Abstract Expressionistic paintings from the 1950's, to four of the giant-scale Minimalist works for which Bladen is best known, to a selection of pedestal-size geometric models from the 1970's and 80's. In all of this, the retrospective conveys no sense of continuous formal evolution. But it does affirm a spiritual continuity. However Minimalistic his mature sculpture may appear, it is animated by the soul of an Abstract Expressionist.
In the 1940's drawings, Bladen appears to have been inspired by idiosyncratic visionaries like William Blake or Albert Pinkham Ryder. Murky and densely worked with erasers as well as graphite, they depict barely decipherable symbolic images of things like an angel, bursts of light and mystical signs.
Of particular interest at this point is a small painting from 1939-40 depicting a single telephone pole starkly silhouetted against a red sky to monumental and unmistakably religious effect. It is a remarkable anticipation of the stark, black monuments of the 1960's.
Bladen continued to paint into the early 1960's, producing thick, brushy, monochromatic or two-tone fields punctuated by a few irregular shapes. The debt to Still is evident, but there is a material generosity and compositional compactness that corrects for the arid grandiosity of the older painter.
Bladen's Abstract Expressionistic impulses come to fruition not in painting but, paradoxically, in his huge geometrical sculptures of the 1960's. The culmination of this show occurs in one large room containing only the enormous "Cathedral Evening" (1969), in which a great V shape thrusts outward and upward almost 30 feet into space, from two massive, trapezoidal feet. Positioned in the center of the room, it points with phallic urgency toward an open, arched doorway. The effect is not unlike that of a painting by Franz Kline.
What's impressive about this piece is not its material being. Up close, it is a letdown. Roughly sheathed in thin plywood painted dull black, it has none of the material sensuousness of the sculptures of Donald Judd or Richard Serra. But it does have a great theatrical command of space. Hovering mysteriously a couple of inches off the ground, its cantilevered, cannonlike element defying gravity, it seems otherworldly, an inexplicable thing from another planet looming with enigmatic purpose over the viewer.
That theatrical effect is felt in two other large works displayed indoors, each in its own separate room. "Three Elements" (1965) consists of three identical 10-foot-tall black boxes jutting up from the floor at a slant. "Curve" (1969) is a great U-shaped, two-foot-thick wall, white on the inside and black on the outside. Crammed into smallish, rather dim rooms, these works seem at once futuristic and primordial.
The psychological impact is not simply a matter of size. Rather, it is in the way the works fill the empty room, pushing against its limits. It is instructive to compare the one large-scale work placed outdoors: "Rockers" (1965), a construction of low rocker forms from which a pair of vertical square pillars rise 20 feet, is a big sculpture, but in P.S. 1's vast courtyard it has a toylike quality, which is enhanced by its cheery, taxicab-yellow paint job.
Turning to the 14 pedestal-scale models for sculptures from the 70's and 80's is disappointing. Made mostly of wood and painted semigloss black, they monotonously recycle a generic vocabulary of rectangular boxes, pyramids, trapezoids, V-shapes and parallelograms; they lack the drama of the earlier big works. They have an angular, rather busy dynamism that harks back to the airy utopianism of early Russian modernists like Kasimir Malevich or El Lissitzky.
Titles affirm that Bladen continued to have spiritual aims in mind: "Cosmic Seed," "Blake's Shadow," "Host of the Ellipse." But the main impression is of a bland, corporate Modernism. Unlike his early paintings and drawings, Bladen's mature sculpture doesn't look very relevant today.
But there's a funny echo of Bladen's theatrical play with scale in an installation by Thom Merrick on view at P.S. 1, in a gallery not far from Bladen's show. It consists simply of a giant, inflated cartoon dinosaur lying on its side and filling the room with its pneumatic green bulges. (It is actually one of those balloon signs used by car dealers and other roadside businesses to attract customers.) Outdoors, this object would be of little interest. Inside, its gigantism is impressive. Pop-style irony aside, considered mainly as an overwhelming of the container by the contained, "Composition in Green and White," as it is called, carries on where Bladen left off.
"Ronald Bladen: Selected Works" remains on view at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, through May 30.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Cathedral Evening" (1969) is among Ronald Bladen works at P.S. 1. (P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); RELIGION (74%); PAINTING (73%); 

PERSON: BLADEN, RONALD; JOHNSON, KEN RONALD BLADEN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999



400 of 655 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 45; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Step Right Up for a Ride at the Carnival of Chaos

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:

THE PYROTECHNIC INSANITARIUM
American Culture on the Brink
By Mark Dery
Illustrated. 295 pages. Grove Press. $25.
The title of Mark Dery's disappointing new book about millennial America, "The Pyrotechnic Insanitarium," comes from a phrase once used to describe the turn-of-the century amusement parks of Coney Island, a blaze of lights and frenetic rides, a "carnival of chaos" that celebrated and parodied the country's new modernity, a "madcap celebration of emotional abandon and exposed flesh, speed and sensory overload, natural disasters and machines gone haywire." 
 A hundred years later, on the brink of the millennium, all of America, Mr. Dery suggests, has become a "pyrotechnic insanitarium," a madhouse reeling from technological change and moral disequilibrium, a hall of mirrors in which it is increasingly difficult to separate reality from virtual reality, a world in which even nature seems out of joint.
In this volume, Mr. Dery addresses many of the same issues he examined in "Escape Velocity," his fascinating 1996 study of cyberculture. Whereas that earlier book was grounded in Mr. Dery's reporting on fringe subcultures -- on cyberhippies, technopagans, avant-garde roboticists, virtual reality designers and body-art performance artists -- "Insanitarium" is a far more speculative work, filled with the observations of other writers and Mr. Dery's own editorial opinions.
Some of those opinions are little more than vague platitudes: "On the cusp of the millennium, the only certainty seems to be that the Uncertainty Principle will be an ever-present fact of everyday life." Others are ridiculously broad (and often ill-informed) generalizations. Shrugging off the problematic legacy of Russia's Communist past, Mr. Dery grandly declares that the country's current woes are a result of "the laissez-faire 'shock therapy' of radical free-market economists like Jeffrey Sachs." And in another chapter, he cavalierly asserts that "the by now universal realization that the government does, in fact, flagrantly flout the will of the people, trample the law and attempt to cover up its skulduggery" casts "a somewhat charitable light on conspiracy theory."
As Mr. Dery sees it, we are living in an "Age of Extremes": "extreme sports, extreme fighting, extreme weather, extreme science (pigs that produce human hemoglobin), extreme TV ('World's Scariest Police Chases'), extreme diseases (flesh-eating bacteria), extreme sex (the mainstreaming of S-and-M via 'Basic Instinct' and bondage couture), extreme art (performance artist Bob Flanagan nailing his penis to a board), extreme toys (Postal, a thrill-kill video game that enables kids to waste innocent bystanders as they beg for mercy), extreme beliefs (the white supremacist Larry Wayne Harris's dream of unleashing bubonic plague in the New York subway), extreme behavior (Mike Tyson biting off Evander Holyfield's ear) and, most profoundly, economic extremes: the yawning income gap between the economic elite and the overworked, overdrawn millions."
It is a time when hyperbole is the order of the day, and books routinely announce "The End of Nature" (Bill McKibben), "The End of Work" (Jeremy Rifkin), "The End of Science" (John Horgan), "The End of Education" (Neil Postman), "The End of the Nation State" (Kenichi Ohmae and Jean-Marie Guehenno), "The End of Affluence" (Jeffrey Madrick), "The End of Equality" (Mickey Kaus) and "The End of History and the Last Man" (Francis Fukuyama).
Though often cleverly put, much of what Mr. Dery says in this book sounds terribly familiar. That we live in an age fraught with anxieties about random violence (terrorism, lone psychos, radical militiamen), nuclear proliferation and terrible new diseases (AIDS, Ebola, 'mad cow disease'). That the digital revolution and advances in genetic engineering have contributed to our sense of cultural vertigo. That today's media landscape is dominated by "solitary obsessions and subcultural crazes" from "alien abductions to encounters with angels, recovered memories to multiple personalities, satanic ritual abuse to serial-killer fandom." We've heard all of this before, in many cases from the many cultural critics Mr. Dery quotes so copiously in these pages.
When Mr. Dery turns from the big picture to specific social phenomenon, the results are considerably more interesting. He argues that the image of the "evil clown" has recently become a popular trope -- from the Joker in "Batman" to Jack Torrance, the gleeful ax-wielding killer played by Jack Nicholson in "The Shining," to the smiling psychopaths in Quentin Tarantino's movies -- and that such psycho clowns have become the "crazy-funny" mascots of "our chaos culture, with its random acts of senseless violence, its tabloid feeding frenzies, its mad bombers and millenarian cults."
In another chapter, he contends that a growing fascination with freaks -- evinced by daytime television talk shows, the Broadway musical "Side Show" and the vogue for bodybuilding and body-piercing -- signals "a crisis in the dominant culture's authority to decide who stands in the center and who sits on the fringes" while flouting "the puritanical commandments" of William Bennett and his New Victorians. A similar defiance of the status quo, he suggests, can be found in the adolescent bathroom humor of "There's Something About Mary," "South Park" and assorted Jim Carrey movies.
Another recurrent theme in "Insanitarium" concerns the body-loathing manifested by digerati, who believe that technology can liberate the mind from the flesh and replace the real world with a more perfect virtual realm. This is a view, Mr. Dery points out, not so different from that shared by members of the Heaven's Gate cult, who committed mass suicide in hopes of shedding their fleshy vehicles and ascending to a higher level.
Such thoughts on body-loathing were laid out with greater depth and perspicuity by Mr. Dery in "Escape Velocity." Indeed, "Insanitarium" often reads like a series of embroidery jobs perfunctorily worked on that earlier volume. For that matter, the chapters of "Insanitarium" do not even form a coherent or cohesive book, but instead read like a series of individual essays (many originally appeared in assorted magazines and on-line publications in slightly different form), linked only by repeated observations and motifs.
All in all, an uninspiring performance by a writer capable of considerably more incisive work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Dery (Allan Ludwig/Grove Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PYROTECHNIC INSANITARIUM, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; CULTURE BOOK REVIEWS (94%); MILLENNIUM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); BACTERIA (73%); WEATHER (70%); VIRTUAL REALITY (68%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); NATURAL DISASTERS (55%); 

PERSON: DERY, MARK; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO MARK DERY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999

 
