

201 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 3; NEWS AND ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: As a Center for Outsourcing, India Could Be Losing Its Edge

BYLINE: By NOAM SCHEIBER

 BODY:
IN early April, Infosys Technologies, an Indian outsourcing firm, had a party to celebrate reaching $1 billion in annual revenue. It gathered nearly 10,000 employees under a tent on its Bangalore campus and plied them with food and entertainment. 
 The company also distributed some $23 million in bonuses. ''And we're doing a lot of other things to retain employees,'' said Stephen R. Pratt, chief executive of the Infosys consulting arm in the United States. 
 Infosys is hardly the only Indian company making a serious effort to attract and keep employees. Over all, according to a recent survey by Hewitt Associates, the consulting group, wages in the country's major outsourcing sectors have been rising by close to 15 percent a year. 
 The reason is increased competition for labor, thanks in large part to American companies' rush to outsource work offshore. In fact, the competition has become so fierce that typical Indian operations in business processing -- including call centers and offices handling payroll, accounting and human-resources functions -- can expect to lose 15 to 20 percent of their work forces each year, versus single-digit percentage losses in the late 1990's. 
 The surge in offshore outsourcing has attracted the attention of American politicians worried about the loss of jobs at home. In late April, the presidential campaign of Senator John Kerry announced its ''Jobs First'' tour and said, ''While the president and his economic advisers have insisted that outsourcing benefits America, a record number of U.S. workers have lost their jobs to countries overseas.''
 But the data from India show that, to some extent, the offshore outsourcing phenomenon may be self-correcting. Though outsourcing shows no sign of fading, rising wages and rapid turnover in Indian hubs may reduce the savings American companies reap when they send work abroad. 
 The stiffest competition for offshore labor tends to occur in India's so-called first-tier cities: Bangalore, Mumbai, New Delhi and Hyderabad. In some sectors of the outsourcing market, attrition rates are 50 to 75 percent a year, according to Sunil Mehta, vice president of the National Association of Software and Service Companies, or Nasscom, an industry trade group in India. 
 Managers in the business-processing sector, in particular, have difficulties keeping workers. A typical outsourcing contract sends workers from an Indian company ''onshore'' -- to the American company's headquarters -- while the outsourcing project is starting. The problem is that the onshore experience becomes a valuable credential in the American or Indian labor markets. 
 ''Many don't want to go back offshore,'' said William S. McCarter, chief operating officer and executive vice president of ePolicy Solutions, a company based in Torrance, Calif., that focuses on Web-based technology services. ''Or if they do go back offshore, they have a marketable skill to churn in the Indian market.'' 
 The situation became so dire last spring that, according to a report in India in The Business Standard, the top outsourcing firms in business processing reached an informal agreement not to poach employees from one another. Other retention measures included clauses in employment contracts to require each new worker to observe a three-month cooling-off period after the hiring date before accepting another job offer.
 Not surprisingly, wage increases have been the most common method of attracting and retaining employees. For example, Wipro, the big outsourcing company, gave its 24,000 employees in India an average raise of 10 percent last October; the increases were as high as 15 percent for managers. These costs have largely come out of its bottom line -- denting its operating margin by 1 percentage point to 1.5 percentage points a quarter -- rather than showing up as higher prices. (The leading Indian outsourcing companies have operating margins of 20 percent to 25 percent.) 
 But part of Wipro's higher costs have been passed along. ''Certain customers got a price increase'' last quarter, said Sridhar Ramasubbu, a company spokesman. 
 Indian executives like Jaithirth Rao, the chief executive of the MphasiS, an outsourcing company, and the current chairman of Nasscom, argue that the labor shortage, especially for middle managers, will be temporary. Local universities have already begun expanding the enrollment in two- and four-year business programs, according to outsourcing company executives.
 There are, to be sure, pockets of the country where less-skilled technical workers have difficulty finding jobs. But there are reasons to believe that India's shortage of highly skilled labor could be stubborn. A recent Nasscom report projected that if India continued to produce college graduates at the current rate, demand would exceed supply by 20 percent in the main outsourcing markets by 2008. 
 ''Candidly, we see a labor problem in India right now,'' said Dan Zadorozny, the vice president for applications delivery at Electronic Data Systems, the big seller of computer services that is based in the United States but has operations in India. 
 Even with wages rising 15 percent a year, the cost for a computer programmer or a middle manager in India remains a small fraction of that for a similar employee in the United States. A programmer with three to five years' experience makes about $25,000 in India but about $65,000 in the United States. But the wage savings from offshore outsourcing have never translated directly into overall savings; typically, an outsourcing contract between an American company and an Indian vendor saves less than half as much as the wage differences would imply.
 Praba Manivasager, the chief executive of Renodis Global Outsourcing Solutions, a company based in Minneapolis that advises clients on outsourcing projects, sees two reasons for that. The first involves the costs of the transition from doing work in-house to offshore -- usually a one- to two-year process. During the transition, employees of vendors based in India must work in the United States. The second involves the cost of maintaining the relationship. Employees of the American company must make frequent trips to India, and the vendor needs some continued American presence. 
 ''The vendor says, 'We'll save 40 to 60 percent; we'll give you such a great rate -- $22 or whatever,''' Mr. Manivasager said, referring to hourly wages. ''But if the onshore rate is $50 to $55, and you have half the people onshore, the savings aren't going to be what are advertised.'' 
 IT is not as if offshore outsourcing is going away. Indian outsourcing companies may simply shift operations to cities like Nasik and Ponticherry, where wage inflation is relatively mild. Others may outsource work offshore themselves, to China, Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe. Still, most experts say India is years ahead of countries like China in its workers' facility with English, its telecommunications and the sophistication of its legal system
 Another possibility is that American companies may turn increasingly to global companies based in the United States -- like I.B.M. Business Consulting Services, E.D.S. and Hewlett-Packard. These companies have the advantage of locations in dozens of countries around the world -- E.D.S. is in 57 -- so they can constantly shift work to the most efficient destination. 
 That trend may bring a measure of relief to American workers. Of E.D.S.'s 135,000 global employees, nearly half are based in the United States. Wipro, by contrast, bases more than 80 percent of its 28,000 employees in India. (The difference is that E.D.S. uses American workers for the onshore component of its American contracts; Wipro uses Indian workers, dispatching them to the United States when necessary.) 
 If the increasing competitiveness of the Indian labor market begins to benefit companies like E.D.S. and I.B.M., outsourcing may one day no longer be a dirty word in a presidential election.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Indian outsourcing businesses, like this call center in Bangalore, have a new challenge: keeping the high-tech cubicles filled. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (93%); OFFSHORING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (53%); CALL CENTERS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (96%); AON HEWITT (84%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (96%); INFY (NYSE) (96%); INFY (NSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



202 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2448 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Google. It's That Other Big I.P.O.

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
PITY Marc Benioff. Sure, his net worth may well exceed $250 million when Salesforce.com, the company he helped to start in 1999, goes public, most likely in the next couple of months. 
 But until then, Mr. Benioff, a boyishly brash chief executive whose large personality matches his bulky 6-foot-5-inch frame, has to walk around with a government-mandated mute in his mouth -- otherwise known as the quiet period that precedes the sale of stock to the public. That means no boasting to the world about how his company, which might just prove to be the hottest public technology offering this side of Google, will become the Microsoft of the 21st century.
 The joke a few years back, when Salesforce was just another dot-com burning through cash like L. Dennis Kozlowski on a spending binge, was that the company would always remain private because Mr. Benioff could not survive the quiet period, which is required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Salesforce filed to go public in mid-December, imposing on its employees, and especially on its gregarious chatterbox of a chief executive, strict rules governing what they could and could not say about their company. 
 ''This must be the toughest six to nine months of Marc's life,'' said Zach Nelson, a onetime colleague at the Oracle Corporation whom Mr. Benioff describes as a friend. Mr. Nelson runs NetSuite, a small company based in Silicon Valley that nominally competes with Salesforce. 
 During the quiet period, companies tend to carefully limit news media access to their executives. For instance, Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, is about as visible now as Vice President Dick Cheney was in the months after Sept. 11, 2001.
 ''Most companies are extra cautious during the quiet period,'' said David Menlow, the president of the IPO Financial Network.
 Mr. Benioff, by contrast, recently permitted a reporter to spend a day following him around, a visit that included hours of one-on-one time, much to the chagrin of the high-priced lawyers the company has hired to help him negotiate the tricky byways of going public.
 ''There's quiet, and then there's Marc's version of quiet,'' said John Dillon, Salesforce's chief executive from mid-1999 through late 2001. ''He loves the media attention and courts it like no one else in Silicon Valley.'' 
 In part, Mr. Benioff said, he has no choice. He sells the kind of product that only a sales executive could love: a simple, efficient way of tracking a company's customers and prospective clients.
 Certainly Mr. Benioff would have a lot to crow about. ''The S.E.C. prohibits me from making any statements that would hype my I.P.O.,'' he said, a statement he repeated whenever the conversation drifted even close to the pending stock offerings.
 Documents that Salesforce has already filed with the agency do much of the talking. His company's revenue has at least doubled every year since 2001, and was $96 million in the fiscal year that ended on Jan. 31. The business has had a profit for three quarters in a row, but showed a $1 million loss in the most recent quarter. Given how unusual the Google I.P.O. promises to be -- ''Google is in a category all its own,'' Mr. Menlow said -- Salesforce may offer a better measure of Wall Street's appetite for technology public offerings.
 Salesforce also provides the perfect lens for watching one of the more interesting -- and potentially significant -- trends in computers.
 Mr. Benioff is inclined to use the word ''revolutionary'' to describe his service, and not without reason. Unlike most software makers, Salesforce does not sell a product that is installed in the buyer's computer. Instead, the company leases software to subscribers who pay a monthly fee. The company maintains its customer-related software on its own computers; subscribers can visit Salesforce.com whenever they choose, courtesy of an Internet browser much like one that would connect to, say, Amazon.com.
 Mr. Benioff did not invent this notion of software as a service. It dates back to mainframe computers in the 1960's. But he has become its most forceful advocate, taking any opportunity to declare the era of installed software dead and to taunt larger foes who use that method. He has focused mostly on the $7 billion customer-relations market, now dominated by Siebel Systems. But he has said in the past that the simplicity of his software-as-service strategy will allow him to cash in on other rich markets, including human resources software and invoice management.
 AT times, Mr. Benioff, who is 39, seems to be a mess of insecurities. In late April, for example, he gave a seemingly routine sales presentation, then asked a reporter how he had performed. But in the next moment he can be as over the top as Lawrence J. Ellison, the Oracle chairman and co-founder, whom Mr. Benioff describes as a mentor, role model and friend.
 Over lunch at Spago Beverly Hills, he took several jabs at his favorite punching bag, Tom Siebel, the founder of Siebel Systems. Mr. Benioff listed the many ways he had bedeviled Mr. Siebel, once a friend who almost became the majority investor in Salesforce. For instance, he has staged stunts to distract attention from Siebel Systems' user conferences.
 At the end of each tale, he emitted a high-pitched girlish giggle. Later, Mr. Benioff pounded a meaty fist on the table while theatrically pretending to be his raspy-voiced foe on the verge of blowing a gasket because Salesforce is supposedly grabbing so great a share of his business.
 The Salesforce Web site describes Mr. Benioff as ''a 25-year software industry veteran,'' meaning that he began his career in his midteens. That is a stretch, but when he was still in high school, he and a couple of friends wrote games for the Apple II and other early iterations of the home computer.
 His formal career began in 1986, when he was 22: he was offered a phone sales job at Oracle shortly after it went public. Mr. Benioff quickly climbed the Oracle ladder, working a variety of sales and marketing jobs with increasing responsibility. At 26, he was named marketing director of the company's fledgling efforts to secure its core database product a place on personal computers -- in no small part, he said, because he had quickly become a favorite of Mr. Ellison.
 Mr. Benioff is a curious mix of capitalist and squishy idealist, a not-uncommon blend among Silicon Valley's young entrepreneurs. He has a pronounced New Age side -- shown when he spoke of Mr. Ellison's ''negativity'' or described his own extended trek through India in search of spiritual enlightenment while on leave from Oracle in the mid-1990's. 
 Back then he was a vegan who said he felt blessed to have attended a speech by the Dalai Lama. Mr. Benioff said he still considered himself a devotee, although he felt compelled to apologize last year after using without permission the Dalai Lama's image in a Salesforce marketing campaign that included the slogan, ''There is no software on the path to enlightenment.''
 One percent of Salesforce's profits are diverted to a foundation that Mr. Benioff created when founding his company, and employees get six extra days off a year to volunteer in any community program. The foundation also owns 1 percent of Salesforce's stock. That, too, has become a cause. Just as he has spent much of the last five years declaring the end of software, he now calls for an overhaul of corporate philanthropy. 
 ''Philanthropic giving needs to be a part of a corporation's culture from the very start, before there's a board of directors to say no to these ideas,'' he said.
 BUT there is nothing New Age about Mr. Benioff's rivalry with Mr. Siebel, which is nasty even by Silicon Valley standards.
 Six years ago, Mr. Benioff met Mr. Siebel for lunch. The two had worked together at Oracle in the second half of the 1980's; when Mr. Siebel left Oracle to start his company in the early 1990's, Mr. Benioff invested $50,000. By the time of that lunch, Mr. Benioff was feverish with the idea of a product that allowed employees at large organizations to have access to crucial software over the Internet, using a browser. He hoped to team up with his erstwhile colleague, who already dominated the very market he had chosen as the obvious first target. He said Mr. Siebel seemed amenable. 
 ''We even came up with a basic financial architecture to our deal,'' said Mr. Benioff, who was still working at Oracle at the time. Siebel Systems, he said, ''was going to own two-thirds of the company, and I was going to have a third.'' In Mr. Benioff's telling, however, Mr. Siebel had a change of heart. Instead of envisioning a separate company in which Mr. Benioff would own a significant stake, Mr. Siebel imagined Mr. Benioff as a top company executive, compensated through a generous stock option package; Mr. Benioff said no, thanks. 
 But last week, Mr. Siebel disagreed with that version of events. ''There is no truth to this,'' he said. ''I am very surprised that in this era of public scrutiny a C.E.O. of a potentially public company would make such a misstatement.'' 
 Nevertheless, in Silicon Valley, there is no shortage of billionaires eager to invest in interesting ideas. Next, Mr. Benioff turned to his friend and boss, Mr. Ellison, who in early 1999 gave him $1 million in exchange for a sliver of the company.
 Mr. Benioff also invested some of his own money. The $50,000 he had invested in Siebel Systems was worth ''in the eight figures'' -- $10 million or more -- when he cashed out his shares in 1999, and he figured that his options from Oracle were worth $20 million to $30 million.
 ''I set up three developers in an apartment next to my house,'' in San Francisco, Mr. Benioff said of Salesforce's co-founders. ''I'd check in with them in the morning, before work, and then again in the evening.'' Mr. Ellison chipped in another $1 million that summer, after Mr. Benioff showed him a rough cut of his product while he was visiting him on his yacht, anchored in the Mediterranean off Cannes. In December 1999, at 34, he quit Oracle for good, to venture off on his own. 
 Three months later, Salesforce started its service in grand dot-com fashion, at a party that included the B-52's band and cost $250,000. Mr. Benioff said he timed the introduction with a large Siebel Systems users' conference in San Francisco, staging a faux protest to ensure that he would gain considerable media attention. ''We applied for a permit from the city to march against software,'' he said. ''We claimed it was hurting the American economy. It was creating landfills full of CD-ROM's,'' he said. ''And the city granted it to us.''
 Back then, Salesforce was just a blip on Siebel's radar screen. ''The truth is, we didn't really compete with Siebel at all,'' said Mr. Dillon, who became chief several months after the company's service started. ''We were competing with these other smaller entities, but Marc understood that by setting ourselves up as challenging Siebel, that would make sure we got our name in the newspaper.''
 IN 2001, Salesforce had $5.4 million in revenue and spent $25 million on marketing; last year was not as extreme, but it still spent 65 percent of revenue on marketing. 
 Was it money well spent? Mr. Benioff started his company at the beginning of the dot-com bust, just as corporations were growing wary of investing in unproven new technologies that promised to save them money in the long run. Yet Salesforce has signed up 10,000 customers and nearly 140,000 users, each of whom pays $65 to $125 a month for access to smartly organized storehouses of information about their customers and potential clients that Salesforce maintains on its computers.
 Mr. Benioff says he is convinced that more and more companies will lease their software via the Internet. ''Does this restaurant build and maintain their own nuclear power plant?'' he asked at Spago.
 Rather than pay a monthly fee, a company that buys a Siebel system pays an upfront cost of $1,700 to $2,500 a user; that doesn't include the endless hours of in-house technical support and expensive equipment needed to make the system work.
 Timothy Chou, who is overseeing an effort inside Oracle that allows customers online access to a range of its products, including procurement software, purchasing and supply-chain tracking, said, ''We believe that software on demand, software as service, is the future of software.'' ''It's not a question of if but when this model for delivering software replaces the delivery of software as an application installed on a corporation's system,'' said Halsey Minor, a Salesforce investor and a founder of CNET. 
 Not everyone is so sure.
 ''I have no doubt in my mind that Salesforce.com will hit a wall, and sooner rather than later,'' said Liz Roche, an analyst at META Group who has been covering the customer-relations management field since its inception in the early 1990's. ''For small- and medium-sized companies with limited I.T. departments, Salesforce is an amazing fit. But for larger companies, I just don't see it.''
 Ms. Roche also wonders whether Mr. Benioff has stuck with his anti-Siebel campaign too long. ''Some of their stunts are funny, but the general consensus from users I spoke to is they have the feel of becoming little ankle biters,'' she said.
 NOT surprisingly, Mr. Benioff dismissed Siebel's online offering, Siebel CRM OnDemand, which made its debut at the beginning of this year, just as he has shrugged off offerings of Oracle and other much larger competitors. ''By getting behind this, they've validated the market for us,'' he said.
 Yet where Mr. Benioff will only lease his product, his competitors allow customers a choice: a corporation can install software on its systems or gain access to the product via the Internet, said Keith Raffel, who oversees a product similar to Salesforce.com developed by Siebel. Several years ago, Mr. Benioff was quoted as saying that Salesforce must start signing deals for 10,000 users to reach the heights he imagined. Yet his two biggest customers have roughly 2,000 users each.
 Mr. Benioff was like a dog straining on his leash when the topic turned to his company's lack of large corporate customers -- an off-limits topic given S.E.C. regulations, but he fought the impulse.
 Still, Mr. Benioff keeps talking. On the day he allowed a reporter to tag along, he made a sales call on a modest-sized business considering a half-million-dollar annual deal. He asked for five minutes to talk to the client about Salesforce, then spoke for 40.
 ''That was a little longer than five minutes,'' he said.
 Then, after apologizing sheepishly, he proceeded to talk for 15 more.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc Benioff, the brash and talkative chief executive and co-founder of Salesforce.com, a software leasing company, has had difficulty muzzling himself in the quiet period required by the Securities and Exchange Commission before the company's initial public offering. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Salesforce's co-founder and chief executive, Marc Benioff, apologized after using the Dalai Lama's image without permission in a marketing campaign. (pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); ORACLE CORP (83%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); NETSUITE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); PUBLIC TECHNOLOGY INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (83%); CRM (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); N (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: MARC BENIOFF (91%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); DALAI LAMA (59%); DICK CHENEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



203 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; Political Points

LENGTH: 1105 words

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Brian Wingfield contributed reporting for this column.

 BODY:

Sorry's Such A Hard Word
 SHOULD the president of the United States have apologized for the Iraq prison scandal? The answer may seem obvious to many people horrified by the pictures, but presidential apologies are never simple, especially in a campaign. Just ask Senator John Kerry or President Bush. 
 Mr. Kerry declared at a news conference on Wednesday that ''the world needs to hear from the president that the United States of America regrets any kind of abuse of this kind,'' but he promptly ducked when asked whether as president he would apologize on behalf of the military. ''I'd want to get the facts,'' he replied. ''And when I'd get the facts, I'd hold the people accountable and I'd make appropriate statements.'' When reporters persisted in asking if an apology was in order, he said he preferred to discuss the economy.
 Mr. Bush was just as reticent in his interviews on Arab television. After he spoke of being ''appalled'' but did not make a direct apology, one was issued on his behalf. ''The president is sorry for what occurred and the pain that it has caused,'' said Scott McClellan, his spokesman. But did a secondhand apology count? Or the indirect regrets Mr. Bush tried the next day, when he reported on a private conversation with King Abdullah II of Jordan?
 ''I told him I was sorry for the humiliation suffered by Iraqi prisoners and the humiliation suffered by their families,'' Mr. Bush said. That was described in many newspapers as an apology for the soldiers' behavior. But some refrained from using the A-word on the grounds that Mr. Bush was sorry not for his mistakes or his subordinates' behavior but for the humiliation of Iraqis: a version of the ''I'm sorry if I offended anyone'' line that politicians use when they want to express regret without admitting they did anything wrong.
 By contrast, consider the act of contrition by Donald H. Rumsfeld in front of senators and a worldwide television audience Friday. He started out by taking responsibility for the soldiers' mistakes and then said, ''So to those Iraqis who were mistreated by members of the U.S. armed forces, I offer my deepest apology.'' How very unpresidential.

The Politics Of Firehouses
 ON Thursday morning, Republicans opened an assault on one of Mr. Kerry's strongholds. They took a camera into a firehouse.
 The International Association of Firefighters became a kingmaker of this campaign by being the only union to back Mr. Kerry in his dark days last year. With their yellow ''Firefighters for Kerry'' T-shirts and banners, firefighters were a fixture at his speeches, and the campaign's signature photo opportunities in Iowa ad New Hampshire were Mr. Kerry ladling out chili dinners at firehouses.
 Now a conservative group, Citizens United, is striking back with a television commercial scheduled to start running this week in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Shot Thursday in front of a ladder truck at the firehouse in Burtonsville, Md., it features praise for President Bush from James Boyle, a former president of the New York City firefighters' union and the father of Michael Boyle, a firefighter killed in the collapse of the World Trade Center. 
 ''I'm a liberal Democrat and have never voted for a Republican president my whole life, but we're in a different world after Sept. 11,'' Mr. Boyle said during an off-camera moment at the firehouse. ''Bush declared war on terrorism, and I'm going to stay with him. He's a leader.'' He said he decided to go public with his support after seeing Mr. Bush's use of images from Sept. 11 criticized by other people who lost relatives in the attacks.
 The Bush campaign has also received support from Thomas Von Essen, the former New York City fire commissioner, and Republicans say there are plenty of other potential supporters in firehouses. The national firefighters' union's polling shows that 44 percent of the members call themselves Republicans, slightly more than the 40 percent who call themselves Democrats.
 The union's general president, Harold Schaitberger, said his group had supported many Republicans at the local level, including the president's brother, Jeb Bush, the governor of Florida. But the leadership settled on Mr. Kerry early on, he said, both because of his policies supporting firefighters and because of his military record in Vietnam.
 ''Firefighters relate to John Kerry as someone who served with honor and led with courage,'' Mr. Schaitberger said. ''Some of our members will vote for Bush, but I think a majority will vote for Kerry.'' Mr. Boyle, not surprisingly, had a different prediction.

The Politics Of Firehouses (II)
 IT'S easy to see the benefits a presidential candidate gets from firefighters, since they are heroic figures in the fight on terror without any of the controversy linked to soldiers overseas. But what does their new status as campaign icons mean for the firefighters themselves -- and for the public? 
 As you might guess, the answer involves money. Firefighting was traditionally considered primarily a local concern, but both presidential candidates sound eager to make it their business in Washington. The Bush campaign, promoting the $500 million in grants it has budgeted for firefighters and another $3.5 billion that goes to firefighters and other first responders, says that it has vastly increased spending above the levels of the Clinton administration.
 But that is not enough to please many firefighters, who accuse Mr. Bush of cutting back on what Congress wants to appropriate. The national union praises Mr. Kerry for supporting higher spending and a new federal program to pay for hiring local firefighters. In campaigning, he called for hiring 100,000 firefighters and frequently got cheers by saying, ''We should not be opening firehouses in Baghdad and closing them down in New York City.''
 Some experts, though, say that Baghdad may need the firehouses more. Thanks to safety improvements, over the past quarter century the annual number of fires across America has been halved, and the drop has been even steeper in New York City. Firefighters say they are more vital than ever now because they are dealing with emergencies beyond fires, but some fiscal watchdogs question Washington's current enthusiasm for men in bunker gear.
 ''We don't need more firefighters in New York,'' said Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group that supported Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal last year to close eight firehouses. The mayor eventually closed six, but it took a political fight of the sort you will not be seeing in the presidential campaign.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (83%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



204 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3296 words

HEADLINE: The Life of the Party?

BYLINE: By Jennifer Senior. 
Jennifer Senior is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Because his state has a rather small population and because he has served in public office since 1982, Bill Richardson is fairly visible in New Mexico, but the crowd at Palacio Bar was still surprised when he popped in during a late-night pub crawl last month. The governor was at the tail end of a supersaturated day in Las Cruces -- morning press conference, power lunch, three speeches, two dinners, a fund-raiser, 39 constituent meetings at five minutes a pop -- but 16 hours later, at 10:30 p.m., he was still rippling with the energy of a fire hose. ''I'll have your best tequila,'' Richardson shouted as he walked in the door. At 56, he was older than most of the startled patrons by a coefficient of two. A biker walked by. ''Que pasa, muchacho?'' the governor asked.
 Palacio Bar was the second of two bars Richardson visited that evening. The first, El Patio, was packed with white kids in backward baseball caps; the second, this biker joint, was almost all Latino. Richardson's ability to move between worlds is one reason his name is on Senator John Kerry's short list of vice-presidential candidates. It also helps to explain why he was selected as chairman of the Democratic National Convention this July and why his name is mentioned as a Democratic candidate in 2008, should Kerry lose to George W. Bush this fall. 
 The biker Richardson addressed was clearly delighted. ''Hey,'' he answered, then turned to the bar. ''Whatever the governor's drinking is on my tab!'' He turned back to Richardson. ''But give me one of your cigars.'' 
 Richardson's role in the Democratic convention will be a visible one. As a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, he is fluent in the language of international relations and diplomacy; as the child of a Mexican mother and an American father, he is also fluent in Spanish, providing Democrats with a much-needed counterweight to Bush's considerable popularity with the Hispanic electorate. From his 14 years in Congress, he is a relaxed and agile communicator, at times shamelessly solicitous of the press. And as a pro-gun, tax-cutting governor, he evokes the era when Democrats spoke, with a straight face, about a third way of governance.
 The biker's girlfriend, a resplendent study in leather, wandered over and informed the governor that she never saw the point in voting. Richardson lurched into high gear. ''If you don't vote,'' he said, ''you don't have the right to complain. If you don't vote. . . . '' He completed his thought in Spanish.
 The woman betrayed no evidence that she was persuaded by Richardson's argument. But when the jukebox went quiet, she began warbling to the governor in a plaintive, mostly tuneful Spanish, and the whole bar hushed to listen. After her serenade, she asked him to dance. He demurred. She insisted. He waved her off, taking pungent drags on his Cuban cigar.
 As we were leaving, I asked Richardson if he planned to lure voters to the polls this season one person at a time. He said the method didn't seem especially efficient. I asked whether he had at least succeeded in luring this woman. He shook his head. ''I doubt it.'' He looked wistfully into the middle distance, then directly at me. ''I'll bet all she'll remember,'' he said, ''is that I didn't dance with her.'' 
Bill Richardson says he believes in the radical theory, currently enjoying currency in some political circles, that the Democratic key to the presidency lies in making a crisp, clean break from the South, which for more than 70 years served as a bedrock constituency of the post-Reconstruction Democratic Party. ''I don't think it's realistic for us to have a Southern strategy,'' he said the first morning we spent together in Las Cruces, near the Mexican border. ''We should concentrate on either a Western strategy -- a Western/Hispanic strategy -- which is basically Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada and Florida, or we should try to pick off one or two states in the Midwest. Those have to be the two options to win the presidency.''
 Coming from a Southwestern governor, particularly one who was recently interviewed by Kerry's vice-presidential search squad, Richardson's enthusiasm for this theory may seem unsurprising, if not frankly self-serving. But that doesn't mean it can't work. When I asked Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, if he agreed with Richardson's assessment, he briefly hesitated. ''Well, even if I did, I'd never say it,'' he said. ''But he has a valid point.''
 From the perspective of the Electoral College, there are certainly more efficient ways for Democrats to recapture the White House than to conquer the American desert -- like winning Ohio, for instance, which has as many electoral votes as Nevada, New Mexico and Arizona combined. But as a long-term goal, a Southwest strategy is remarkably tantalizing, primarily because it looks forward instead of backward. Rather than trying to recapture the South, which has been slipping out of Democratic control since the rise of the civil rights movement, and rather than making an aggressive play for the Rust Belt, which inevitably requires baroque curlicues of doublespeak about free trade, the party can turn its gaze to a region where cities are expanding, retirees are settling and the Hispanic population, now the largest minority in the United States, is both swelling and voting in significant numbers. Arizona, home of Barry Goldwater, voted for Bill Clinton in 1996 and came within 6.3 percentage points of voting for Al Gore. Nevada came even closer, with a margin of just 3.5 percent. And New Mexico actually went to Gore, though by a mere 366 votes.
 ''Horace Greeley told us to go West,'' one of Kerry's advisers told me. ''And that's where we're going.''
 Well in advance of this season's presidential primary, Richardson seemed to sense this -- and that the Democrats needed a response to Bush's success with Hispanic voters, 38 percent of whom support his re-election, according to the most recent Pew Hispanic Center poll. The governor successfully agitated for a Hispanic Super Tuesday, in which the Arizona and New Mexico primaries were held on the same day; he arranged for the first official primary debate to be held at the University of New Mexico, which was billed as the ''Hispanic'' debate; he gave the first Spanish-language response to the State of the Union, on the television network Univision; and he established Moving America Forward, a political action committee dedicated to registering Hispanics and Native Americans.
 Of course, in doing so, Richardson not only raised the profile of Latino and Southwestern issues within the Democratic Party. He also raised his own. For all of his rakishness and buoyancy, the governor is, at his core, an ambitious man. In 2000, he made no secret of his interest in joining the Gore ticket, and had he not made such a public-relations disaster of his stint as energy secretary, he might even have been invited to do so. But shortly into Richardson's tenure, two computer hard drives containing nuclear secrets vanished from Los Alamos National Laboratory, and he avoided, at least initially, testifying at a Senate hearing about it. The evening news ran footage of his empty chair. Senators called for his resignation. 
Today, chastened and newly employed, Richardson insists that he is no longer interested in the vice presidency. Whenever he is asked, and he is asked with metronomic regularity, he says he would turn it down: in 2002, he made a commitment to the citizens of New Mexico to be their governor for a full term. He and his wife of 32 years, Barbara, have no desire to leave. ''I ride my horse; I try to exercise, to play tennis, to hike,'' he told me. ''I don't need to leave here. No one understands that, and no one believes me anyway.''
 He's right. No one does, including the Democratic Party chairman. (''To my mind, he'd accept the job,'' McAuliffe said. ''Who are we kidding?'') But whether the governor is interested or not may be beside the point. As a member of the country's most rapidly expanding ethnic minority and as a governor from one of the country's most rapidly changing regions, Richardson will doubtless play a key role both in the coming election and the Democratic future -- if not literally, as one of the party leaders, then metaphorically, as the embodiment of its shifting demographics. ''It may not be in the most politically correct taste to say this,'' said Henry Cisneros, who also served in the Clinton cabinet, ''but during Bill's Congressional campaigns in New Mexico, we used to joke that the Anglo residents would think he was one of them because his name is Richardson and the Latinos would say he's one of them because he speaks perfect Spanish and the Native Americans would think he's one of them because of his costuming and dress. Everyone had a claim on him.''
''Who's next?''
 The afternoon before our pub crawl, Richardson sat in the conference room of his Las Cruces office, doing what he does once a month: holding open office hours, during which he meets for five minutes with anyone who walks in off the street. 
 A pleasant-looking, smartly dressed blonde entered the room with her husband, a British fellow. The man started to speak, but Richardson cut him off almost the moment he began his preamble of praise. ''Thanks,'' Richardson said. ''What can I do for you? What do you want?''
 ''Well,'' the fellow said, slightly rattled, 
 ''I'm sure you know my wife's father, Ike Smalley. He served nearly 40 years in the State Legislature. . . . ''
 ''Sure,'' Richardson said, again cutting him off. ''O.K., so what do you want named after him?''
 The husband looked stunned, apparently unnerved that their request had been so quickly divined. But the woman answered: ''Well, would it be possible to name the road to Santa Teresa after him? He devoted himself to building strong relations with Mexico.''
 ''Yeah,'' Richardson said. He turned to an aide. ''Get Johnny Cope from the highway department, and let's have an appropriate ceremony. Let's get it done right.'' Then, back to Smalley's daughter. ''I took a road trip with your dad. Did he tell you?'' Another assistant walked in, carrying a burrito for him, minus the beans.
 Pretty much anywhere he goes, Richardson is known not for his ideas but for his energy and political instincts. He enjoys wheeling and dealing, enjoys steering toward consensus and getting to yes. When he served in Congress, his cheery temperament, occasional bullying and literal penchant for backslapping propelled him straight into the Democratic leadership, where he served as chief deputy whip. Around the time the Democrats lost control of the House, he cultivated a sideline that again exploited his interpersonal skills -- as a globe-trotting troubleshooter for the Clinton administration. In 1996, Clinton named him ambassador to the United Nations, formalizing his diplomatic role. Even after he became governor of New Mexico, Richardson continued to moonlight as a diplomat: in 2003, with the blessing of Colin Powell, he met with a delegation of North Koreans in Santa Fe before it stopped at the United Nations. 
 ''I could not get Bill to focus on what I thought was a very interesting painting,'' said Andy Athy, a Washington lawyer who is close to Richardson. ''And he's not going to be staying up all night reading a complex book, though he definitely reads. What he finds interesting is people.''
 Shashi Tharoor, an undersecretary general at the United Nations, agreed. ''He wasn't an Andy Young, he wasn't a Richard Holbrooke and he wasn't a Tom Pickering,'' he said, referring to Richardson's more erudite U.N. predecessors. ''But he was a great Bill Richardson. He was so astonishingly friendly. Very often, countries heed the positions of the U.S. ambassadors because they feel they have no choice. So it's that much more palatable if those policies are put forward in an agreeable way by a bonhomous U.S. ambassador.''
 Because he is more of a doer than a thinker and because he has an almost insatiable fondness for media attention, Richardson sometimes leaves the impression that he's not a terribly serious person. When people find fault with him, the word ''lightweight'' comes up; though he is conversant in both foreign and domestic policy, the governor's connection to politics is essentially sensual. He loves meeting people, loves schmoozing, loves smoking cigars and nibbling on buffets and riding the endless fund-raising cocktail surf. During his 2002 gubernatorial campaign, he earned a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for shaking the most hands in an eight-hour period (13,392). He wears alligator boots and happily uses words you can't say on TV. At times, he can be reckless, hot-tempered and a vainglorious showboat. A Democratic ticket with him and John Kerry -- hollow-eyed, estranged from his appetites, subsisting on a diet of rectitude and moral fiber alone -- would be a striking comedy of contrasts and perhaps not the one Kerry is striving for. 
 Yet anyone as tireless and hellbent on pleasing people is also bound to be effective. In Congress, Richardson was an early Democratic proponent of trade with Mexico, working hard to pass the North American Free Trade Agreement. As a freelance diplomat, he successfully negotiated the release of three Red Cross workers who were taken hostage in Sudan, and he paved the way for the liberation of a downed pilot in North Korea. (Richardson referred to himself during those years as ''under secretary for thugs.'') In New Mexico, the governor has drummed up trade along the Mexican border, lured Hollywood films to the desert and cut taxes to make the state competitive with its neighbors. Even 43 percent of New Mexico Republicans give him a positive approval rating.
 Charm isn't a bad asset during an election year, either. If Richardson dedicated himself to shaking as many hands in 2004 as he did in 2002, you wonder what kind of results he could produce -- especially among Hispanics, who made up 5 percent of the voters in the 2000 presidential race and who have recently shown less fealty to the Democratic Party in elections like the California recall, the Texas Senate race and the gubernatorial races in New York and Florida. A new, more centrist message may be in order, and a bilingual, business-friendly governor of a state that is 42 percent Hispanic is as decent a messenger as any. ''The Democratic Party needs to revitalize its outreach with Hispanic voters,'' he told me. ''We can't just appeal to them on immigration issues and civil rights and affirmative action. We've got to talk to Hispanics about broader, mainstream issues like entrepreneurship, home ownership, education. Set it around the American dream and not around 'Keep your distinct Hispanicness.' There's too much of a younger, up-and-coming, business-oriented Latino population that, you know, wants a piece of the economic pie.''
 He thought for a moment. ''You know, my worst nightmare is that we, the Democrats, won't have a strategy that involves counteradvertising. I've seen the Republicans' Spanish ads. They're good.''
As the day was winding down, Richardson sat in the front of his S.U.V., munching on chicharrones and harrassing one of his media people for proposing a photo op on a lake he, rather unpopularly, ordered partially drained. ''Forget it,'' the governor barked. ''They hate me out there.'' Then he looked at me and rolled his eyes. ''This is my communications staff. This is positive image-building. I can't wait for the next big idea.''
 When it comes to the media, no one is shrewder in the Democratic Party than Richardson. In the end, that may be his biggest contribution to the 2004 election. The role of convention chairman is largely as talking head, master of ceremonies and (if need be) one-man rapid-response team, and this role is ideal for both Richardson and the party. Compared with the Republicans, who run a well-oiled media machine, the Democrats are disastrously bad at P.R. They're dull. Defensive. Chaotic.
 Richardson, on the other hand, is the Democratic answer to John McCain. He says pretty much what he's thinking. Candor for him is both schtick and real. Several times a day, he beckons his assistant to come over and touch up his makeup in order to make him camera-ready; his press people carry extra foundation in their bags. They estimate that he gets three requests from the national news media per day, as well as one from the Spanish-language media. 
 Which says nothing of the requests he gets from the local media, whose coverage occasionally borders on the swooning. You read it and think, A man can't buy publicity like that. Then you talk to Republicans, and you realize that that's sort of what Richardson did: after moving into the governor's mansion, he raided local news outlets for star political reporters, including the editorial director of The Albuquerque Journal. Pete Domenici, who has served as New Mexico's Republican senator for 32 years, still can't get over it. Recently, at a lunch before the Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce, he joked about how many reporters were in attendance. ''Because Richardson has hired 17 of them!'' he later explained to me. ''Or, O.K., not 17, but a number.'' (That number, as a matter of fact, is nine, which is pretty remarkable for a state with so few media markets.) 
 But Richardson also gets very fine national coverage. This can't be explained by a local hiring spree, and any reporter who is honest with him or herself should be able to guess the reason: Richardson provides some much-needed relief from canned speech. I remember experiencing this myself back in 1994, shortly after Republicans regained control of the House of Representatives. I told Richardson, who was a congressman at the time, that I was planning to write an article about House Democrats. He cut me off in midsentence: ''Aaaaagh, are you going to write that we don't have our [expletive] together? Is that what you're going to write? Because maybe we don't, O.K.? But don't write that.'' I came away stunned. It occurred to me that I had forgotten what real speech, not to mention genuine sentiment, sounded like. I had forgotten that it didn't always come out of a test tube.
 Richardson hasn't lost that bluntness. Over dinner, I asked whether he still kept up with Clinton. He said yes, but added that he had also hurt the president's feelings by not inviting him to New Mexico during his gubernatorial race. ''Polling showed he was too controversial,'' he said. How many other politicians would admit they were listening so closely to polls? Later, the governor also mentioned that Kerry had asked him to consider hiring his sister, Peggy Kerry, at the United Nations back when he was ambassador. ''It was totally proper,'' he told me. I didn't doubt it, but still, would Kerry really want Richardson volunteering this information? Did Richardson really want people to know he went ahead and hired her? Especially after he had to testify about interviewing Monica Lewinsky for a job?
 In many politicians, strengths and weaknesses are one and the same. In Richardson, they are just a bit louder. At some point, I asked Richardson how it was that he came to have so little regard for the conventions of political rhetoric. He thought. ''Well, being bilingual, you're able to appreciate cultures differently, to almost have two different personalities,'' he said after a moment. ''And my father and my mother were both very strict with me, but very generous, and they told me to be honest and tell the truth.'' He trailed off, seemingly unconvinced by his own assessment. ''But you know, this sounds like [expletive]. I don't know. Let me think about this some more.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Michael Edwards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



205 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review; Pg. 1; The Nation: Exit Options

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: They've Apologized. Now What?

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A MILITARY defeat is a damaging thing, and Iraq remains a tense battleground. But a moral one may be more devastating and more enduring for a power like the United States that has long held that its actions are driven, at least in part, by the desire to be a force for good with a liberating mission for all humanity.
 It is precisely such a rout of the American idea that now confronts the United States in Iraq. The world is asking what sort of liberation is represented by an American woman holding a prone, naked Iraqi man on a leash in Saddam Hussein's Abu Ghraib prison, of all places. No matter that the offenders represent a tiny minority of the American military or that torture may be common in Arab jails. Such images will be held aloft for many years whenever America declares itself determined to right a wrong.
 ''This is the most serious setback for the American military since Vietnam,'' said Richard Holbrooke, a former United States ambassador to the United Nations in the Clinton administration. ''We now have to admit that the American position is untenable.'' In Europe, some people are saying that if America were a country of 10 million people, its leaders would be hauled before an international criminal court. 
 So, a little more than a year after American tanks swept into Baghdad, the central question has become how to salvage the American credibility on which peace in places from Kosovo to the Korean peninsula depends. 
 Suggested short-term fixes include apologies like that more or less offered by President Bush, convictions of those responsible or even the departure of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who in testimony before Congress on Friday accepted full responsibility for the scandal. But the longer-term issue is how to snatch victory, or at least honor, from the jaws of the current debacle in Iraq and so deliver the remote objective outlined by President Bush last month: an Iraq that ''will stand as an example to the Middle East, encouraging reform and hope by demonstrating what life in a free society can be like.'' 
 Three distinct approaches appear possible.
 Announce that America is reversing course, rather than staying the course, and that its troops will be gone from Iraq by a date in 2005, so focusing the minds of Iraqis on how best to benefit responsibly and peacefully from their liberation from Mr. Hussein.
 Empower the United Nations, giving it the central international role in Iraq's fate after June 30, while keeping American troops as part of a United Nations-mandated force in the country, but confining them increasingly to a few bases.
 Or, finally, pay lip service to the United Nations while fighting a ferocious campaign with 135,000 American troops or more, until resistance is crushed.
 Several factors complicate the pursuit of any of these strategies. Even before the abuse at Abu Ghraib became apparent, the failure to secure United Nations backing for the war and, above all, the failure to find weapons of mass destruction had eroded American moral legitimacy. As Peter W. Galbraith, a former American diplomat and an expert on Iraq, remarked: ''How you are seen depends in large part on how people see you anyhow. Right now, the world tends to see the United States as a habitual drunk, so the photos fit the image.''
 In unsuccessful wars, a certain rot tends to set in. The first 100 days are often critical; after that, it is harder to regain the initiative. So whatever America does now, it is facing a rising tide of not easily reversible resistance and doing so in a country whose stability is tenuous.
 An unstable Iraq is increasingly divided among Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites whose aims diverge and whose interest in a united Iraq is probably smaller than their interest in the assertion of their own identities. The prospects of defeated, economically prone and multiethnic states freed from ruthless dictatorship have been amply illustrated in recent years by the disintegration of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia.
 Despite this danger of fracture, and its potentially explosive impact on the Arab world and Iran, Rashid Khalidi, a Palestinian-American and longtime critic of the United States' Middle East policy, argues that the fastest possible withdrawal of American troops is now essential. 
 ''The entire rationale for this whole adventure has to be jettisoned in order to save something,'' said Professor Khalidi, adding that in his view the extent of Iraqi nationalism makes a breakup of the country less likely than many believe.
 A withdrawal, in his view, is justified because the American forces are part of the problem rather than the solution, because occupation in any form will only engender more resistance in a country with vivid memories of British colonialism, and because the Bush administration's strong support of Israel has tended to make Falluja and Gaza a single struggle in the eyes of many Arabs.
 American officials involved in the Bush administration's planning for Iraq believe such an option would be catastrophic, inviting mayhem that would destabilize the small gulf principalities and possibly Saudi Arabia. ''We have to stick to our guns on the basic strategy of keeping the force there, because without it, there will be chaos,'' said one of those officials, speaking on condition that his name not be used. ''At the same time, we have to defuse the uproar of the photographs by being as transparent as possible in what we do about the abuses.''
 In fact, the administration's ''basic strategy'' has changed considerably, a shift measurable on what might be called the Bremer-Brahimi barometer. The needle has swung away from L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the American occupation, toward Lakhdar Brahimi, the chief United Nations official at work there. Mr. Brahimi's name skips off Mr. Bush's tongue these days; Mr. Bremer's has largely disappeared. The barometer's swing offers a rough measurement of the limits of American power.
 This change has brought the administration and its chief ally, Tony Blair, the British prime minister, toward a broad, but never explicitly avowed, embrace of the second option: retreat through osmosis as the United Nations decides who gets to run Iraq after June 30, organizes the elections planned for January 2005 and authorizes an internationalized military force that the administration hopes will include NATO.
 This approach has several problems. 
 Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, the commander of American forces in Iraq, will remain for many Iraqis the true ruler of the country, whatever happens on June 30. The chalice now offered to the United Nations appears to be poisoned, because resistance to any outside presence has spread.
 NATO is divided, with France and Germany insisting they will not send troops to Iraq under any circumstances (and Spain pulling out its forces), so an alliance presence there is uncertain. And the neoconservative hawks so influential in the planning and execution of the Iraqi invasion remain deeply skeptical of the United Nations. Their sympathies are inclined to the third option: prosecuting the battle with vigor.
 That there are no good options at this point is fast becoming a cliche. Mr. Holbrooke, an adviser to the Kerry campaign, said that the administration must now explicitly concede that the American presence in Iraq is illegitimate and illegal in the eyes of the Arab world and turn affairs over to the United Nations. Then the administration can maneuver behind the scenes to ensure that the interim Iraqi government installed after June 30 quickly invites American troops to begin a phased withdrawal over an extended period. Such a request could hardly be refused.
 But Mr. Bush and Mr. Blair see Iraq as a fight to deliver the Middle East from Al Qaeda's poisonous ideology by opening up Arab society and linking it to the West. They point to the 2,300 schools rehabilitated, the $32 billion pledged for reconstruction, the higher-than-expected oil revenues in recent months and the relative strength of the new currency. A withdrawal on their watch, even a phased one, looks unlikely.
 Their goal, however, has never looked more elusive. Abu Ghraib is not My Lai. Nothing like the infamous massacre of Vietnamese civilians took place in the Iraqi prison. But it is assuming something of the mantle of that tragedy -- a vivid stain on America's conscience. How the United States can recover the moral authority with which much of the world still yearns to vest it will depend on its choices over the next few weeks. The battle for Iraq now begins again, for the third time, and on tougher terms than ever.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The scandal at Abu Ghraib prison has complicated American plans to extricate its troops from Iraq and threatened its credibility around the world. (Pool photo by Anja Niedringhuas) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



206 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 6; OFF THE SHELF

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: So Much History, So Little Finance

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
IT is easy to understand why Ron Chernow devoted so much space to politics and the military in ''Alexander Hamilton,'' his new biography of the first Treasury secretary (Penguin Press, $35). Along with Jefferson, Madison and Franklin, Hamilton was pivotal in creating what would become the United States, and his contributions to the Federalist Papers are a primary reason for the nation's strong executive branch. 
 Similarly, the extensive time given to Hamilton's military service is deserved. He was an aide to George Washington during Revolutionary War and later was a general himself. 
 And it seems you can't have a biography without the obligatory sex scandal, so the pages spent chronicling the married Hamilton's affair with a married woman, who was, or was not, trying to set him up for blackmail makes sense, too.
 Still, some readers may wish that Mr. Chernow, who previously wrote ''The House of Morgan,'' ''The Warburgs'' and a biography of John D. Rockefeller (''Titan''), would have devoted more pages to Hamilton the financier. 
 People with a serious interest in history may be more than satisfied with this well-rounded biography, one that tries to shine as much light as possible on someone who gets less than his fair share of attention, presumably because he never became president.
 But people whose primary interest is business may be left longing for a bit more, despite the book's impressive heft. It may have been that heft that forced Mr. Chernow to do less with Hamilton's financial life. The book comes in at 818 pages and weighs three pounds. You can understand why something had to give. 
 To his credit, Mr. Chernow does go out of his way to talk about Hamilton the financial visionary and anoints him as being nothing less than the creator of American capitalism. As the author notes, the colonies broke free of England at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, with its accompanying expansion of global trade, banks and stock exchanges.
 ''No other founding father straddled both of those revolutions -- only Franklin even came close -- and therein lay Hamilton's novelty and greatness,'' Mr. Chernow writes. ''He was the clear-eyed apostle of America's economic future setting forth a vision that many found enthralling, others unsettling, but that would ultimately prevail.'' 
 That vision is chronicled in some, but not elaborate, detail. The book does discuss the role of Hamilton in creating the Bank of New York, and the first federal bank, before he became the Treasury secretary.
 And the book explains how the self-taught Hamilton studied history and world economies before deciding that his adopted country -- he was born in Nevis in the British West Indies -- needed a central bank, both as a way to tie the 13 states more closely to the federal government and to ensure that the country would have enough capital to grow.
 ''Hamilton was the supreme double threat among the founding fathers,'' Mr. Chernow writes. ''At once a thinker and doer, sparkling theoretician and masterful executive.''
 In large part, that may be the book's appeal -- especially now. Works like David McCullough's ''John Adams,'' a surprising runaway best seller in 2001, and Walter Issacson's biography of Ben Franklin, published last year, are attractive not only because we are interested in our roots, but also because we have a natural tendency during times of bad corporate behavior to look at how things were handled in the past.
 It is here that Mr. Chernow disappoints. We aren't sure how and why Hamilton accomplished what he did.
 We do know that he was honest. Despite persistent rumors that he was enriching himself as Treasury secretary, investigations not only proved those rumors wrong but also showed that Hamilton had created, in the words of Albert Gallatin, President Jefferson's Treasury secretary, ''the most perfect system every formed.''
 ''Any change that should be made in it would injure it,'' Gallatin added. ''Hamilton made no blunders, committed no frauds. He did nothing wrong.''
 BUT why and how? In the early days of the Washington presidency, there were five people in the state department and 39 in Hamilton's Treasury. Why were all those people necessary? What were they doing? 
 What led Hamilton to conclude that public debt could spur the economy -- or that it would be easy to pay off once the economy was up and running? (It seems some problems have lasted more than 200 years.) 
 There are more basic questions. Hamilton clearly had sweeping ideas -- like the creation of a central bank and the first sin taxes, on liquor. 
 But big ideas are easy, as almost every chief executive knows. Executing them is the hard part. How did Hamilton turn his ideas into reality? 
 There is no doubt that he was smart and driven. In fact, he is a prototype for one form of the American success story: the bright, hard-working immigrant who makes good in his adopted land. 
 But smart, driven executives often fail, especially if they have as many enemies as Hamilton did. (Some disagreements were rational: many people, for example, thought that his lobbying for centralized government was counter to what the revolution was all about. Others were silly: his opponents said that he had cut secret deals with the British after the revolution to ensure that the new republic would always be subservient to Britain.)
 True, President Washington was often a strong ally. But support from the boss is not all that is needed to get something done, especially when that something is as sweeping as forging a new capitalist system.
 It would have been more satisfying if Mr. Chernow had included more information so that his book, which might become required reading for political science and history majors, could be found in M.B.A. programs as well.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HISTORY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SEX SCANDALS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); SCANDALS (54%); EXTORTION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (73%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



207 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR'S WIFE

LENGTH: 2247 words

HEADLINE: In Vast Philanthropy, Kerry's Wife Wields Sway

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
When the newly widowed Teresa Heinz took over the stewardship of one of the country's largest philanthropic organizations more than a decade ago, all she had to guide her was a soggy, charred legal pad of handwritten notes that had been found in the debris of the plane that crashed in 1991, killing her husband, Senator H. John Heinz III.
 Mr. Heinz had been jotting down plans for a sweeping overhaul of the organization that would put it on sounder financial footing by diversifying its holdings out of H.J. Heinz Company shares and changing its management structure. 
 ''When Jack died and we had to diversify, I had to learn about everything,'' recalled Teresa Heinz Kerry, who in 1995 married John Kerry, the Democratic presidential contender, ''and I knew nothing about money and investments.''
 Thirteen years later, she is the guiding force behind the Heinz Endowments, which control $1.3 billion in assets and gave away $54.5 million last year. She also runs the Heinz Family Philanthropies, an umbrella for a $70 million family foundation she created after her husband's death and the two non-tax-exempt charitable trusts that finance it. 
 As a result, the city of Pittsburgh is in many ways a monument to Mrs. Heinz Kerry's philanthropy. It is home to more environmentally sound buildings, certified as green buildings, than any other city in the country, thanks in large part to the Heinz Endowments. The city's riverfronts are undergoing a renaissance, led by the endowments. Its school administration has changed in response to the endowments' concerns. Even the look of a bridge over the Allegheny River bears the endowments' influence.
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry says that she does not have political ambitions like Hillary Rodham Clinton. At the same time, she has made it clear that she intends to carry on her philanthropic activities should she get to the White House. ''I checked it out with lawyers before the campaign began,'' she said in a recent one-hour interview about her philanthropy. ''There is nothing that says I cannot do it.''
 Yet the idea of a first lady who gives out $50 million to $70 million a year in private grants has intensified focus on her record and her role, supporting not just Pittsburgh but advocacy on issues like women's economic security, drug costs and environmental policy.
 Terence Scanlon, president of the Capital Research Center, a conservative nonprofit organization that monitors the charity world and has been critical of some of Mrs. Heinz Kerry's giving, said she could well have even more influence than Mrs. Clinton, who led an effort to enact national health care when she was first lady. 
 ''When Hillary was doing health care,'' Mr. Scanlon said, ''it wasn't like she controlled nine health maintenance organizations that could lend their clout to her. Teresa has three endowed foundations at her disposal.''
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry insists that there is little chance her philanthropy would influence a Kerry presidency. ''My husband does not have a lot, or almost anything at all, to do with what Heinz does,'' she said, referring to the endowments. ''It's my life, my work, it's nothing to do with him.''
 In fact, her philanthropic activity seems most of all to be a reflection of her strong loyalty to the Heinz family, which made its fortune in ketchup, and a commitment to building its legacy.
 ''There was no one else,'' she said of her decision to lead the endowments rather than take her husband's place in the Senate, as many Republicans were urging her to do when he died. ''My husband was an only child,'' she said. ''If I had not done this, there was no one else from the family to do it.''
 She said she also had a sense of loyalty to Pittsburgh, where the Heinz company is based, at the time a gritty, hollowed-out industrial city that had lost 120,000 jobs and, two months before her husband's death, a beloved mayor. ''It was just a lot of loss, and I felt, 'You know what? I'm needed here,' '' she said.
 One of the Heinz Endowments was established on the death of the grandfather of Senator Heinz, Howard Heinz, heir to the pickle-and-ketchup fortune accumulated by his father, H. J. Heinz, and one was created by Howard Heinz's sister-in-law, Vira I. Heinz. The two have separate boards but function pretty much as a single entity. Mrs. Heinz Kerry is chairwoman of the Howard Heinz Endowment and is on the board of the Vira Heinz Endowment. 
 Under the administration of Senator Heinz's father, H. J. Heinz II, the endowments initiated the development of a cultural core of Pittsburgh, building and restoring theaters. A down-at-the-heels movie theater was turned into Heinz Hall, home of the Pittsburgh Symphony. 
 Senator Heinz -- who ran the philanthropies for only four years before he died -- had big ideas but little time to put his stamp on the endowments. That fell to his widow.
 Janet L. Sarbaugh, who heads the arts and culture program at the Heinz Endowments, remembers the first board meeting Teresa Heinz attended, barely a month after the senator was killed. 
 ''She was not only present but already playing a role in the grants agenda and in setting strategic direction,'' Ms. Sarbaugh said. ''It is a clear memory because it was evident how devastated, fragile and stunned she still was.''

A Family Legacy Expanded
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry, who is still known as Mrs. Heinz at the endowments, has remained true to the family's historic commitments yet expanded them. She created an environmental program and won the support of a board dominated by Republicans who had been her father-in-law's friends.
 ''There has been continuity, but she has also managed to make them think bigger,'' said Morton Coleman, director emeritus of the Institute of Politics at the University of Pittsburgh. 
 The River Life Task Force, for instance, came to life at a joint board meeting of the endowments. Restless, Mrs. Heinz Kerry got up and walked over to the window, said several people who were at the meeting, gazing on a cluster of apartment buildings on the north shore of the Allegheny River that Maxwell King, the endowment's president, describes as having ''that medium-security prison look.''
 Nearby, the new Alcoa building, modern and environmentally ''green,'' was going up, and across the river, the city had plans to demolish and rebuild its convention center, ''which was awful,'' Mrs. Heinz Kerry recalls. ''It was a brick box, like a brick wall along the river,'' she said, ''and it had nothing redeeming about it.''
 She and other board members decided that they wanted a voice in what was going to go up along the riverfronts, and they approved a $1 million grant to seed a sort of watchdog organization, the task force, to keep an eye on things.
 The task force, made up of city officials, community leaders and developers, is responsible for the plan to create a riverfront park. The Heinz Endowments contributed $5 million to the $12 million project but attached strings to its gift, reserving the right for staff members to approve signs, maintenance plans and budgets and to review the selection of plants and grasses.
 It also demanded a guarantee that the new convention center would receive certification as a green building. The task force also swung into action when the state announced that as part of its reconstruction of the Fort Pitt Bridge and Tunnel, it would erect 42-foot-high concrete barriers that would obliterate spectacular panoramic views of Pittsburgh.
 After the task force scoured the country in vain for a barrier that would satisfy aesthetic demands and meet the state's safety requirement, the Heinz Endowments put up $113,000 to hire the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects to design a barrier that would preserve the views and provide safety at about the same cost. The barrier won an award, and other states are now looking at it for their own reconstruction projects.
 A hallmark of Mrs. Heinz Kerry's administration has been a demand for hard-nosed assessment of the effectiveness of grants, say organizations that receive the money. The endowments stunned the city two years ago when, together with two other local foundations, they announced that they would stop financing programs in the public school system until oversight of the system improved.
 Only $3 million out of a total schools budget of $700 million was involved, but the move caused a major controversy. ''It was a break with the old style of philanthropy, of course, but I'm still surprised at how many people are still angry about that,'' Mr. King said.
 In the wake of the foundations' decision, the mayor formed a commission on public education that issued a stinging rebuke of the school system, and the public elected a reconstituted school board.
 In February, the foundations announced that they would resume the financing of school programs.

Frustration Over Education
 Then there was the Early Childhood Initiative. Mrs. Heinz Kerry is, in her words, passionate about early childhood development. So in 1998, the endowments started a program to make education programs available to Pennsylvania preschool children from low-income families at little cost to the public. 
 ''Teresa was very active in building support for that program,'' said James Roddey, a former Allegheny County executive, ''and she was responsible personally for raising a good deal of money from sources other than the Heinz Endowments for that project.'' 
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry helped assemble $60 million to serve some 7,600 preschoolers.
 But three years later, with $34 million spent and just 680 children enrolled, the group stopped the program. It was spending $11,500 a child, much more than it had planned, the endowments said, and providing only half the number of hours of service it had anticipated.
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry calls the program ''our biggest disappointment,'' adding: ''Philosophically, pedagogically, it was absolutely correct, and we have the numbers to prove it. But it was too expensive.''
 Part of the philanthropy Mrs. Heinz Kerry oversees supports advocacy on issues ranging from women's economic security to drug costs to environmental policy. It is her environmental activities that some conservative critics question.
 The criticism has been led by the Capital Research Center, which pointed to grants the endowments made through the Tides Center, a Pennsylvania-based organization that is loosely affiliated with the liberal Tides Foundation in San Francisco. The critics suggested that some of the money ended up in the hands of groups like the Ruckus Society and Greenpeace U.S.A., which have used confrontational tactics to promote environmental causes.
 Both the endowments and Tides insist that none of the Heinz money ended up with such groups. ''The money that went through Tides went almost exclusively to environmental and youth programs in Western Pennsylvania as laid out in our contract with Tides,'' Mr. King said.

Question of Politics
 In April, Capital Research also published an article suggesting that the endowments' support for the League of Conservation Voters and Mrs. Heinz Kerry's position as a board member of other environmental groups was responsible for the league's endorsement of Senator Kerry over other Democratic contenders in the primary.
 ''The United States has never had a wealthy spouse overshadow its president,'' wrote Ron Arnold, the author of the article. ''But Teresa Heinz Kerry leads and funds philanthropic foundations, and she is on the board of directors of highly political nonprofit groups that receive her foundation's support and that can advance or frustrate the policies of her husband, should he become president.''
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry is adamant that she has stayed clear of the policy work of her husband. ''I've never, ever once asked them to help me to come up to the Hill and talk about an issue I was interested in,'' she said. ''Nor did I ever tell my husband now or my late husband, you have to vote on this this way.''
 The Capital Research Center counts as one of its biggest backers the Sarah Scaife Foundation, which reports that it has donated $700,000 to the center from 1998 to 2002.
 It and two other foundations that have contributed to the center have as their chairman Richard Mellon Scaife, whose wife, Ritchie, is one of Mrs. Heinz Kerry's closest friends, Mrs. Heinz Kerry's aides said. And Mr. Scaife's cousin, James M. Walton, is chairman of the Vira I. Heinz Endowment. Mr. Walton also sits on the board of the Sarah Scaife Foundation and thus has approved the grants that have underwritten Capital Research.
 Messages left at Mr. Scaife's foundations went unanswered.
 In an e-mail response to questions submitted through the Heinz Endowments, Mr. Walton said he supported Capital Research because it provides a distinctive point of view in discussions of public interest. ''Foundations and their board members frequently support organizations based on broad goals even though they may not necessarily agree with every individual action or position taken by that grantee,'' he wrote.
 But he said he disagreed with Capital Research's accusations about the endowments. ''The Heinz Endowments has not used its funding to support either extremist groups or inappropriate political activity,'' he wrote.
 Mrs. Heinz Kerry notes that the bulk of the endowments' support for environmental groups mentioned by Capital Research came out of the Vira Heinz Endowment, of which Mr. Walton is chairman. ''I am not the one with a conflict,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Teresa Heinz Kerry is involved in giving away about $54 million yearly. (Photo by Associated Press)
 Teresa Heinz Kerry played an active role in the construction of the David L. Lawrence Convention Center in Pittsburgh, above. She said the old center, below, was ''a brick box'' with ''nothing redeeming about it.'' (Photographs by the Heinz Endowments)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); CHARITIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); FAMILY (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); CONSERVATISM (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (92%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



208 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; Pg. 1; The Nation

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: One Chance For a First Impression

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1988, Republicans rolled out a carefully tested, meticulously planned campaign aimed at turning Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic nominee, into an utterly unacceptable choice for president.
 The message was simple: Mr. Dukakis was a liberal, ''outside the mainstream,'' who let murderers out of prison on weekend furloughs, would not require schoolchildren to say the Pledge of Allegiance and was soft on defense.
 Mr. Dukakis, who found it hard to believe that the charges would stick, resisted fighting back. His negatives soared. A generation of Democratic political operatives, many of them now working for Senator John Kerry, swore never again. A generation of Republican operatives, some of them now working to re-elect President Bush, took notes. 
 So how relevant is the Dukakis model for 2004? How hard is it for a challenger today to introduce himself to the American people, pass a threshold of credibility as a potential commander in chief and at the same time beat back relentless efforts by the opposition to define him first? As harrowing as Mr. Dukakis's experience was 16 years ago, the task facing modern challengers may be even rougher in the blindingly fast world of 24-hour cable and Internet warfare.
 There are, at times, eerie echoes of 1988 on the campaign trail these days. For two months, many Democrats have watched, queasily, as the Republicans roll out another disciplined campaign against their nominee as a flip-flopping Massachusetts liberal who is soft on defense, with a huge wave of paid advertising backed up by legions of Republicans and surrogates, all firmly on message. The commercials rattle off some weapon systems Mr. Kerry opposed financing at one time or another, just as they did against Mr. Dukakis in 1988.
 Moreover, Democrats have discovered -- once again -- that a candidate can win a party's nomination, make the covers of the national magazines and still be unknown to many voters, who are only intermittently paying attention right now. With a $25 million advertising campaign launched last week, the Kerry forces are scrambling to fill in the blanks, before the Bush campaign does, and to regain control of the candidate's story -- ''a lifetime of service and strength,'' as they put it.
 But many Republicans share the view, or hope, of Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, who says of Mr. Kerry: ''The country really doesn't know him, unlike Reagan, who'd been around awhile. And the country is being introduced to him more by the Bush campaign than by the Kerry campaign.'' 
 Mr. Bush has his own political challenges; any race with a president seeking re-election is, in the end, a referendum on the incumbent and the way things are going. A new round of polls last week showed growing discontent with the war in Iraq and a drop in Mr. Bush's approval rating, even before the prisoner abuse scandal fully registered with the voters. Those signs make it all the more imperative for the Republicans to present Mr. Kerry as an unacceptable alternative, some strategists say, and to do so quickly.
 In the race to define the Democratic nominee, the Kerry campaign faces challenges that Mr. Dukakis never did: an incredibly complex world of Web sites, e-mail, talk radio and 24-hour cable shows that gives the opposition any number of outlets, at any time of the day, to move an argument or make a charge, undermine a strength or highlight a weakness.
 Thomas E. Patterson, a professor of government and the press at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, said, ''It's easier, in this communications environment, as compared to '88, to get mud to stick, in part because you've got so many ways of doing it.''
 Moreover, if a candidate decides to respond to every accusation -- post-Dukakis -- he can find himself perpetually on the defensive, in many forums, on every front.
 A case in point was the recent flurry of charges over whether Mr. Kerry in fact deserved all three of his Purple Hearts, a challenge that amazed many Democrats. ''It's a phenomenal debate to be in, for a guy who walks around with shrapnel in his leg,'' said David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant. 
 There was a time when campaigns unfolded at a slower, more stately pace; challengers won a long series of primaries and caucuses and had the time to build an image before it was deconstructed.
 Sixteen years ago, the campaign of George Herbert Walker Bush was considered state of the art, from a communications standpoint, but it did not mount its full offensive against Mr. Dukakis until mid-summer. By the 1996 campaign, when Senator Bob Dole was challenging Bill Clinton, the Democrats began their assault in the previous year.
 ''As soon as Bob Dole started moving toward the nomination, he got carpet-bombed, and here was a man who had been around for years,'' said David R. Gergen, a White House adviser under both parties, who is now a professor at the Kennedy School. The Bush team, Mr. Gergen added, ''draws heavily from recent historical analogies, and that's one of them.''
 Mr. Kerry, who essentially secured the nomination in early March and was down to only a few million dollars in the bank, came under immediate, withering attack.
 What are the rules in this new world? ''We all know how to do it in the abstract,'' said Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant. ''Run the bio spots, roll out the issue spots that identify your candidate with things people really care about. But that was really the 1970's. Ain't nobody lets you do that anymore. Every forum of definition is fought over -- the Internet, direct mail -- they're going to try to contest it.''
 Many Democrats complain that the Republicans have the advantage of a huge echo chamber with the conservative media establishment. And, some say, Republicans are simply better at working the news media, getting their message across, appealing to the journalistic conventions that favor conflict and controversy. 
 Grover Norquist, an influential conservative strategist, scoffs at that idea. ''Democrats just say that when their guy's getting beat,'' he said. ''Look at what the Democrats did to Quayle. They gutted that guy within three days of his being named.''
 THE patron saint of Democratic challengers, of course, is Bill Clinton, who managed to survive a harrowing primary season in 1992, redefine himself for the general election and defeat an incumbent president. But he also had the benefit of the strongest third-party candidate in 80 years, H. Ross Perot, who was drawing (and returning) much of the Republican fire that year.
 For their part, Mr. Kerry's advisers insist they are sanguine in 2004, cheered by 1992 and ever mindful of 1988. Yes, they say, their candidate's negative ratings have risen, in some polls, but the two candidates remain very close in the polls.
 Most important, they say, this is not the summer of 1988, a time of economic growth and relative peace. ''We have some huge issues on the table this time: national security; Iraq; the economy, which despite some indicators continues to be an enormous source of concern,'' said Tad Devine, a senior adviser to Mr. Kerry and a Dukakis veteran. ''These issues are leading voters to a fundamentally different calculus.''
 Republicans counter that the Kerry campaign has its own fundamental flaws. ''Modern liberal Democrats from Massachusetts do not have a coherent theme to explain why they would make America better,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
 The past, in other words, is never really dead in presidential campaigns. It's not even past.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, right, in 1983 with Lt. Gov. John Kerry. (Photo by The Boston Globe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%); REFERENDUMS (61%); CHILDREN (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



209 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: In the Bronx, a Last Call for Goat Legs and 99-Cent Toothpaste

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The trickle of cars and trucks begins before dawn, dropping below the Major Deegan Expressway and onto a ghostly cobblestone road in the Bronx. Pigeons often flutter in the shade of the steel overpass. Sleek sedans with embassy plates park alongside clunky family vans. Other people drift in off city buses.
 Day after day, the visitors disappear into graffiti-scrawled buildings on Exterior Street, where some 25 stores -- a cluster known to many as the African Market -- answer a singular wish: to bring back the taste of home, at a bargain.
 Pepsodent toothpaste, the kind made in Ghana, for 99 cents a tube. Bull penis, used in a Jamaican soup, for $1.89 a pound. Goat legs, stacked in plastic bags, $25 each. Mercy Cream, a small yellow pot with a potion ''prepared to effectively treat most skin diseases,'' for $1.99. In the same store, movies from Nigeria and Ghana, stacked four feet high, sell at $4 per video, but the familiarity they provide to immigrants like Elizabeth Wilberforce is priceless. 
 ''It keeps us going,'' said Ms. Wilberforce, a 30-year-old Ghanaian, as she stood in K&K African Market watching grainy scenes from ''Three Beautiful Apples,'' a movie from Ghana. 
 This is the last incarnation of the Bronx Terminal Market, a 32-acre wholesale and retail market near Yankee Stadium that has played host to nearly eight decades of change and will soon become extinct. Related Companies, the developer of the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle, took over the city lease to the decaying market in April with plans to build a multilevel retail center and garage there, and an esplanade and park along the Harlem River.
 Once approved, the plans would be another victory in the ambitious quest for reinvention in the Bronx, where eyesores are increasingly supplanted by new development.
 But if the Bronx's dream of swift urban renewal comes with a cost, it was felt in the hushed mood that passed through the Bronx Terminal Market in the days after the lease changed hands. The vendors will be forced to leave in two years. For the shoppers -- immigrants who hail mostly from Africa and the Caribbean -- the market's closing threatens a vital link to the lives they left behind. ''Here is like a home to us,'' said Michael Akamo, 36, a Nigerian immigrant.
 The very thing that makes business thrive for Daniel Ahenkora, an immigrant from Ghana who owns the Gold Coast Trading Company in the center of the market, has lured developers to the site for years: its unbeatable location.
 ''It's got a highway, a subway and all those bridges coming over from Manhattan,'' said Jesse Masyr, a zoning lawyer representing the Related Companies. ''It's an area that has incredible infrastructure that you can't duplicate anymore.''
 The market draws shoppers from as far away as Ohio, Texas and Colorado to stock up on goods they cannot find locally or that their local merchants sell at too high a price, vendors say. Some of the shoppers are those very merchants; they own small stores or restaurants in other states, and depend on the market's low prices to make a living. Those prices allow Alberto Guzman, a Dominican immigrant, to charge less at his restaurant in Haverstraw, N.Y.
 ''If I have to go elsewhere, I will have to raise my prices,'' said Mr. Guzman, 42, as he loaded boxes of orange juice into his van.
 Other shoppers act as couriers from immigrant outposts in cities where an African market is hard to find. Once or twice a month, Edward Akonor makes the four-hour trek in his dark green Plymouth Voyager from Manchester, N.H., carrying a shopping list and advance cash from about 20 Ghanaian neighbors. Mr. Akonor, 46, always buys the same things: goats' legs, canned sardines, dried fish, Indian Head corn meal and Ghana-made Pepsodent for his four children, who prefer it to the sweeter, more popular toothpastes sold in the United States.
 The family immigrated from Accra, Ghana's capital, to the Bronx four years ago. By that time, the number of Ghanaians in New York City, roughly 15,000 according to the 2000 census, was nearly three times what it was 10 years earlier. Bronx Terminal vendors had already tapped into the African market, and the Akonors began shopping there. They moved to New Hampshire so Mr. Akonor could study there for a master's degree in business, but kept coming back to the market.
 ''I'm not too comfortable with the local dishes here,'' Mr. Akonor said, referring to the food in Manchester. ''I could not enjoy this place if I could not get my local dishes.''
 He is among the hundreds of shoppers who cram the Gold Coast Trading Company on any given Saturday, the busiest day at the market. The store, which opened four years ago, sells up to $20,000 in food, toiletries and videotapes on Saturdays alone. ''We sank in a lot of capital, and we've built a business,'' said Mr. Ahenkora, the owner. ''If we have to leave overnight, it's going to be a big loss.''
 Officials at Related Companies said none of the stores would be forced to close before two years, and both Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., have promised to help the vendors stay in business.
 ''It is the city's responsibility to find a home for them that is better, and has friendly business terms,'' Mr. Carrion said. ''There are better candidates than this dark, dingy place where they are now, under a highway.''
 It was Mayor John F. Hylan's idea to build the Bronx Terminal Market in the early 1920's. He wanted to move vendors away from Washington Market, in the area that is now TriBeCa. The first building, a vast, windowless brick structure erected in 1925, is now abandoned. Very few vendors moved in, and the building came to be known as ''Hylan's folly,'' said the Bronx borough historian, Lloyd Ultan. 
 More fruit and vegetable vendors, many of them Italian, moved to the market after Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia expanded it along Exterior Street in 1935. When Hunts Point opened 30 years later, those vendors moved out and Puerto Rican vendors moved in. The Bronx Terminal Market carved a niche as a tropical fruits and vegetable market and catered largely to the growing Hispanic bodega business. It came to be known as the largest Hispanic wholesale foods market in the country.
 The market's vendors began selling African products about 10 years ago. Those sales now account for most of the business at Latin 17, one of several stores that once catered mostly to Hispanics.
 ''All of them eat something different, and they have different dialects,'' said the store's co-manager, a 29-year-old Colombian immigrant who gave his name only as Alex. When he took the job three years ago, he could not fathom that people cooked with cows' skins or bull penises, which are stored in neat coils, covered in plastic, in a glass-door refrigerator.
 ''This is stuff you can't get at a Pathmark,'' he said as women in African-print dresses and head scarves waded through the store on a recent Saturday. ''All of this stuff, I had never heard of it. I thought cow skin was for leather coats.''
 Business may be humming for some vendors, but they do not deny that the market has been worn down by decades of neglect and political scandal. The story of the market's former landlord is almost New York lore: the Arol Development Corporation acquired a 99-year lease in 1972, after the company's family patriarch, David Buntzman, delivered $30,000 in cash to Mayor John V. Lindsay's presidential campaign in Wisconsin. The Buntzmans spent years in litigation with the city over the market's upkeep, and little upkeep resulted.
 But a site for the vendors that is comparable in location and affordability will be hard to come by. The Hunts Point produce market charges drivers at the entrance and requests identification, a policy that could deter immigrant shoppers. Bathgate Industrial Park in the Bronx is another option being bandied about by city officials. The vendors have met twice since the lease-change was announced and are searching for legal representation.
 ''All our families live from here,'' said Ari San Emeterio, the general manager at New York Produce. ''This is all we know how to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlton Gray, a customer at the Bronx Terminal Market, with bags of goat heads. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 Above, Attissa Abdou, right, shops at the Bronx Terminal Market, looking at cows' feet. Left, Ralph Lelia, the owner of L&S Fruit Producers, is among the vendors for about 25 businesses at the decaying market. They must move in two years to make way for a new multilevel retail center and garage. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); VANDALISM (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAILERS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ZONING (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); APPROVALS (62%); SKIN DISORDERS (53%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (94%); NIGERIA (91%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



210 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: School for Scandal

BYLINE: By Stacy Schiff. 
Stacy Schiff is the author, most recently, of ''Vera (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov).''

 BODY:

BETTER THAN SANE
Tales From a Dangling Girl.
By Alison Rose.
226 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $23.
 Alison Rose was born to a rich, glamorous mother and a brilliant, overeducated father, as good a recipe as any for trouble. At an early age she was at ease with a finger bowl, privy to the bold-name psychiatric gossip of Palo Alto, a Steiff connoisseur. She had something else, too: sex appeal at 10. ''I learned,'' Rose writes of her precocious wizardry, practiced on her elder sister's boyfriend, ''how to use charm-or-whatever-it-was as if it were a passport. I didn't know where I thought I was going with this, but it never occurred to me to stop.''
 Nor has she yet, or so one might conclude of a memoirist who opens her volume with a tour of her bedroom. And in those first pages Rose establishes a few house rules. She is an accomplished pack rat, the kind of friend who might well borrow your attic. She has enduring, totemic relationships with objects -- the fake French mirror of her childhood, a vase of dried peonies, shopping bags of sacred correspondence. She has had sex with famous men, including at least one rock 'n' roll icon and a chorus of New Yorker contributors. There are enough ex-boyfriends that she can distinguish between the absolute favorite and the king of them all. (If I'm reading correctly, in a life-or-death situation you reach for the former. Short of which, you cling to the latter.) She is no less aware of her charms at nearly 60 than she was a half-century earlier. And she has, somehow, repeatedly, got the fuzzy end of the lollipop. 
 What Rose wants is what everyone wants: proof that she exists. And to that end -- brief careers in modeling, acting, writing aside -- she has made something of a specialty of self-destruction, perhaps the only truly conclusive means of settling the matter. ''I never did think of myself as a person who would get married and live in a house'' may or may not explain the need to spend nights sleeping in Central Park with the boyfriend Rose literally picked up (she found him passed out in front of her building and dragged him inside). At several junctures she admits that obliteration is the name of the game; it is in any event preferable to an extended stay on those private islands of abnormalcy, inadequacy, ineptitude. It is to flee that archipelago that Rose washes down whole years with Valium, speed, Sara Lee, to be purged with that greatly underrated laxative, self-pity. There is something fiercely bulimic about this memoir, or would be were it not for the descents into inertia. Smoking qualifies here as an occupation. Shame pins Rose to a New York couch for a full year.
 Rose trips lightly from the paralytic seasons to those of fevered ambition. She nearly nails down proof of her existence, first with a Vogue-commissioned Avedon photo, then in a French director's film. There are no lowered bars and few lower-case names in her world, familiar on account of another California transplant, the Joan Didion who recalled of her New York season, ''I could stay up all night, and make mistakes, and none of it would count.'' The mood is similar, but the narrators are not. Rose tends to gravitate toward those who are, like her, differently abled: they have talent to burn, recognizable last names, parents who extend force fields of credit-card protection. And consciously or not, she tends toward trios, amended versions of her own childhood. Security is to be found in a ''little sheltered oddball-animal-family,'' in ''two humans of different sexes right up close,'' in ''a beautiful insane man by my side and my best blond girlfriend.'' 
 What Rose describes as her first love (her childhood pencil collection), a sudden burst of ambition and that embrace of trinities come together in June of 1985 when, nearly 40, she lands the job on which she has set her sights. Described to her as the place for ''congenital unemployables,'' The New Yorker perfectly fits the bill. And so for years, while serving in other less exalted capacities, Rose plays the resident femme fatale, ultimately becoming -- there are worse fates in life -- a kind of extension of the brain of George W. S. Trow, with whom she collaborates on Talk of the Town pieces. 
 If Trow is her sun, Harold Brodkey is her moon; they provide yet again the kind of syzygy that holds her in place. Those fixtures of Mr. Shawn's New Yorker are by no stretch Rose's sole devotees; nor are they necessarily even lovers. The lovers merit nicknames, presumably to protect the innocent. Hers is a universe in which married men are as a rule only a little bit married. She stands as incontrovertible proof that those hordes of male novelists may not have been fantasizing on the page after all. She could have been airlifted into The New Yorker's hallways -- Bright Lights, Bad Girl -- courtesy of Bruce Wagner.
 A third of these pages are devoted, as was the 1996 article from which they appear to have grown, inorganically, to Rose's having held court in her cubicle. The reader who skips to them directly is forgiven; what precedes and follows packs the narrative punch of Monica Lewinsky's early years. After Page 100 Rose strides among the literary gods, notebook in hand, an intermittently grown-up Eloise at the Plaza, prepared to hurl the next pitcher of water down the mail chute of an institution she names ''School.'' Brodkey greets her in those rarefied hallways as ''My Bride''; Rose hails him with ''My Conscience.'' Her classmates are all in her thrall. And she lets not a single one of their bons mots evaporate, writing them down, as she reminds us, ceaselessly. Possibly one of the unnamed conquests was a fact checker; in any event, it is no surprise that Brodkey calls Rose his ''recording angel.'' Her own loopy observations are priceless. No one will describe George Trow better than to say that ''he was always thinking behind his own back while he was thinking'' -- but it is the quoted material Rose is most eager to share. It pertains wholly to one subject. What emerges, direct from those treasured shopping bags, are the collected compliments of Alison Rose. 
 There is unmistakably something regal about the gleaming, brittle, unhinged Rose, and if you want to hear two distinguished writers debating whether she was the princess or the duchess of the 20th century you can do so here. If you prefer to hear Trow and Brodkey debating the merits of the Old Testament God, you're out of luck. By her own admission, Rose couldn't have cared less about the subject, and took neither notes nor sides. She makes a valiant attempt instead to spin something out of pack-rat literature -- in ''Better Than Sane'' she essentially offers up a tour of her top desk drawer, answering-machine messages, bulletin boards, the postcards from the New Yorker dream team that hang over her bed. Certainly she earns her place amid that body of literature in which getting out of bed is on par with Moses parting the Red Sea. She is brilliantly able to articulate the disorder for which there may or may not be a name in the DSM: sometimes, plain early-morning air, running water and the nap of a towel are just too much. But her unwillingness to engage with the world at large more or less guarantees a descent into fatuousness. Even the most brutal terry cloth is less abrasive than a line like, ''In fact, I've never liked my hair better than in Cheraw, South Carolina, in June 1992, because of the fat waviness the humidity gave it.'' 
 Is it fair to fault a memoirist for being too solipsistic? Only when she can't seem to differentiate gazing in the mirror (and telling us what other people saw there) from self-reflection. What separates Rose from the dangling men and the interrupted girls is that those other veterans of the wars of self-determination ultimately ventured out of the comfort zone. Twenty years ago Rose was happiest having dressed for School, sitting before her full-length mirror with a cigarette, engaging Trow in an imaginary dialogue and trying ''to figure out what they saw -- all the other men -- when they had conversations with me in my cubicle.'' School's out, but she's still letting the mirror do the talking. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Abbrederis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); EATING DISORDERS (76%); LITERATURE (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Stacy Schiff; Alison Rose

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



211 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2239 words

HEADLINE: Food Stores: A Broader Menu

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
THE food marketing landscape in Manhattan is changing, with national chains arriving or scouting for locations. Whole Foods recently opened its flagship 58,000-square-foot store in the basement of the Time Warner Center and is building a trilevel 50,000-square-foot store on 14th Street facing Union Square.
 These are huge stores by Manhattan standards, where most groceries occupy 7,000 to 10,000 square feet, according to retail brokers. They are even larger than many suburban stores, which average 44,000 square feet, according to the Food Marketing Institute. 
 Trader Joe's, another food specialty chain that is well known elsewhere, including some New York suburbs, is scouting for locations in the city, according to brokers. Some foreign stores like the British chain Waitrose may enter the fray as well. 
 To some retail specialists, the prospect of more national chains in the city recalls the arrival of the Barnes & Noble and Borders bookstore chains, which swept away many local bookstores with a broader selection and such innovations as in-store coffee shops. Others, however, point to the limits imposed by carless shopping -- not to mention zoning rules and other intricacies of Manhattan retailing -- as factors differentiating the food trade from the bookstore battles. 
 These developments come at a time when, brokers say, food stores are once again becoming attractive as tenants in office and residential buildings. The newer stores, many of them selling upscale prepared foods, are less messy than more traditional operations, and their convenience appeals to time-pressed residents.
 A 45,000-square-foot Pathmark supermarket will take up most of the first floor of Bradhurst Court, a full-block residential development at 145th Street in central Harlem, and other Manhattan buildings are looking for fancy food stores to fill empty spaces. One of these is a 20,600-square-foot space in the Puck Building at 295 Lafayette Street in SoHo that is currently rented out for parties and other public functions.
 The existing upscale food business may undergo change as well, as a result of an injection of Wall Street money late last year into the company that took over the venerable Balducci name. The merchant banking unit of the Bear Stearns Companies took over the Sutton Place Group, owner of the Balducci name, and said it planned to open as many as 50 stores in New York and its suburbs, most under the Balducci brand.
 While old and new names are both part of the changing food scene in Manhattan, another brand -- Wal-Mart -- looms large in the rest of the country. Wal-Mart has increasingly been opening supercenters, which add a grocery operation to a standard Wal-Mart store, and average 187,000 square feet in size, about double the typical Wal-Mart department store. 
 In New York, existing supermarket chains like D'Agostino, Gristede's and Food Emporium will probably coexist with the newcomers because of their locations, product mixes and prices, said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairwoman of Garrick-Aug, a brokerage specializing in retail leasing.
 ''Not every neighborhood has space for a Whole or Trader,'' she said. ''So Gristedes and D'Agostino will continue to operate.''
 Rents for grocery stores vary in different parts of the city, as they do for all types of retail operations. According to brokers, stores on an avenue in the 60's and 70's on both the East and West Sides range from $175 to $200 a square foot in annual rents. Those closer to Midtown are lower, at $125 to $150 a square foot, and rents in SoHo range from $100 to $150 a square foot, depending on whether they are on an avenue or a side street.

The Retail Mix
A Wider Range Of Shopping Choices
 Ms. Consolo said that the newcomers would simply add to the mix of retail approaches to marketing food and groceries. ''Consumers in Manhattan want the same range of shopping opportunities as people in the boroughs and suburbs,'' she added. ''That's why we have Home Depot and Target here.''
 Whole Foods is not attempting to impose a national model on this most urban of locations, according to Christina Minardi, the company's manager for the tristate region, although it does follow the company's emphasis on natural foods. ''We try to do new things with each store,'' she said. ''Prepared foods are a big part of our business and we figured we would have a bigger lunch and dinner crowd at Columbus Circle'' than at the company's existing store in Chelsea at 252 Seventh Avenue at 24th Street. ''So we spent time to design the store to make it customer-friendly,'' she said. 
 But unlike the boroughs and suburbs, where shoppers can push a week's worth of groceries in a shopping cart to a car in the adjacent parking lot, shopping in Manhattan occurs in smaller installments.
 Although home delivery of groceries is increasingly available in Manhattan and FreshDirect and other online services are gaining visibility, people are often limited to what they can carry from a store to where they live.
 ''There is a bifurcation of shoppers,'' said Richard Hodos, president of Madison HGCD, a retail brokerage. ''I know people who shop online for mundane items they don't want to carry -- things like detergents, orange juice and bottled water. They are heavy and they are commodities.''
 In contrast, he said, there are plenty of things most people do not want to buy sight unseen, notably produce. ''There are items that people want to look at, feel and hold up to the light,'' he said. ''They will be shopped personally.''
 Mr. Hodos said he has been in discussions with a London-based grocery store chain, Waitrose, about the possibility of opening stores in this country. ''We'd love to bring them over,'' he said. One of Waitrose's specialties is preparing entire meals and flash-freezing and shrink-wrapping them for home use.

Two Kinds of Goods
Prepared Foods Versus Staples
 Whole Foods' stores combine grocery staples with elaborate prepared foods, said Robert K. Futterman, a retail broker who helped locate the store to the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. He said the approach met the developer's original desire for a multitenant food hall on the lower floor, similar to the one in the Harrods store in London. He said the casual dining area in the Whole Foods store fulfilled the food hall requirement, and the developer was happy to deal with just one tenant in the space.
 Mr. Futterman said New Yorkers may be attracted by the wide selection available in big food stores. ''We have had big appliance stores, big bookstores and now big food stores,'' he said. ''The old supermarkets may not be around for too long,'' 
 The operators of existing supermarkets are not throwing in the towel just yet, however. ''The landscape changes all the time, but we have been here for 75 years,'' said David D'Agostino, director of online shopping for the family-owned company.
 He said Whole Foods was attracting crowds at the Time Warner Center, but questioned the long-term economic viability of the store. ''You have to ask what they are paying for that space,'' he said. ''Columbus Circle is not a cheap location.''
 He also noted that his company is unionized, unlike Whole Foods, which has resisted unionization and stresses its philosophy of teamwork and employee participation in store management. 
 D'Agostino's has been delivering in the neighborhoods of its 18 stores in Manhattan for 13 years, Mr. D'Agostino said, starting with a telephone service. He said it was a growing part of the company's business, describing it as ''another way to shop conveniently in a time-starved community.''
 Some retail brokers question whether time-starved New Yorkers will have the patience to browse through a large store to find the few items they need. ''New Yorkers like to get in and get out, and they don't want to go to a store that is more than a few blocks away,'' said Alan Victor, an executive vice president of Lansco, a retail brokerage. ''So the strong specialty neighborhood store will maintain its presence.''
 But others say they believe shoppers are increasingly separating purchases of staples like paper, soap and canned goods from prepared foods, exotic fruits and vegetables and fancy cuts of meat. Shoppers, they say, go to established supermarkets to buy the former, while going to stores like Dean & DeLuca or Citarella or, now, Whole Foods for the evening's meal.
 ''The trend is that both people work and there is no time to cook,'' Mr. Futterman said. ''So one goes shopping for prepared food. And it is perfectly acceptable to serve prepared foods to guests.''
 Of course, prepared food is more expensive than the raw ingredients, though that appears not much of a deterrent in high-income neighborhoods in Manhattan. These offerings, whose prices cannot be easily comparison-shopped with other stores, are providing a fatter profit margin for stores that otherwise compete fiercely on price.
 ''Any supermarket company that wants to survive has got to get away from price promotion,'' said Mr. Hodos. He observed that the middle of most supermarkets, where canned and boxed goods are sold, makes little or no money because of competitive price promotions like advertised specials and coupons. ''They make money on the periphery of the store, in the dairy and meat cases,'' he said, adding that prepared foods help fatten the margins.
 Mr. Hodos said it is possible that the supermarket business will evolve into two types of stores: one that very efficiently markets commodity goods and those that sell higher-margin prepared foods. ''You have to be able to deliver commodities efficiently or have top quality,'' he said.
 Even the corner deli may be in danger, he said, because of competitors willing to pay higher rent. ''Banks and wireless operations want those corners, too,'' he said.

A Comeback
Why Food Stores Are More Welcome
 But if grocery stores are being squeezed out of some locations, they are making a big comeback in residential developments. The Pathmark supermarket at Bradhurst Court was an essential part of the development, said its architect, Marvin H. Meltzer.
 ''The food market was part of the criteria for the project,'' he said. ''The economics did not work without it.''
 Designing a structure with 126 co-op apartments above the store and a parking garage below it was a complicated undertaking, he said, particularly because Pathmark and ShopRite, two chains that expressed interest in the space, both insisted on using the layouts found in their one-story suburban stores.
 ''In a standard, one-story building, you put your mechanical systems on the roof,'' he said. ''But here, the roof of the supermarket is an outdoor courtyard for the residential units.''
 In the end, Pathmark, he said, specified the size of the display cases and the freezer units and the locations of the deli section, checkout lanes and loading dock. This influenced the size and placement of the structural columns, which have to support both the roof and the apartments above.
 The return of grocery markets to favor as retail tenants in residential buildings is the completion of a cycle, according to Benjamin Fox, a partner in Newmark New Spectrum Retail, a brokerage company.
 ''When a typical 21-story building was developed on the West Side, it usually had 7,000 to 10,000 square feet of space on the ground floor,'' he said. Since they were usually rental units, the landlord decided what would go into the retail space and often it was a supermarket. Many of the operators of these markets were keenly aware of their neighborhoods, he said. ''If they noticed a lot of people with dogs, they stocked up on dog food; if they were in a Hispanic area, they stocked up on rice.''
 Having the market was convenient, Mr. Fox said, but it had drawbacks. Delivery trucks would arrive noisily in the small hours of the morning, disturbing sleeping residents. Garbage trucks made noise as well, and if they did not come often enough, rotting garbage produced smells and attracted vermin.
 ''By the 80's and 90's many of those buildings had been converted to condos and co-ops, and the new owners decided to get rid of the supermarkets,'' he said. ''This was coupled with the rise of health and beauty stores: Walgreens, Rite Aid, Duane Reade. They were a 'dry use' that could pay more and cause less mess, and many went into spaces formerly occupied by markets.''
 But the rise of the small upscale food store, which has far fewer heads of lettuce to dispose of, has made them more acceptable in residential buildings, Mr. Futterman said. 
 ''Ten years ago, condo developers considered a food store a detraction,'' he said. ''Now a gourmet food store is considered an amenity because of the quality and convenience.'' 
 Ms. Minardi said the Whole Foods store in Chelsea had been successful and said the initial crowds at Columbus Circle had been so large that the company had been forced to post a guard at the top of the escalator to limit entry. She said the company was looking for locations in Manhattan in addition to the store under construction near Union Square.
 Ms. Consolo of Garrick-Aug said the Columbus Circle store's location at the bottom of the Time Warner retail-office-hotel-residential complex will ensure it success and assist the stores on the next two floors above.
 ''That's how the hypermarkets work in Europe,'' she said. ''They have a food court at the base, and it drives traffic to the rest of the retail.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Business has been brisk at 58,000-square-foot Whole Foods store on a below-ground level of the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
Christina Minardi of Whole Foods at Union Square
Robert K. Futterman in Puck Building
Bradhurst Court on 145th Street will have a Pathmark. (Photos by Frances Roberts for The New York Times, left and center
Richard Perry/The New York Times, right)(pg. 1)
The architect Marvin H. Meltzer at Bradhurst Court, which is to have a Pathmark with 126 co-ops above and a parking level below. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 The Whole Foods store at 252 Seventh Avenue at 24th Street. The company is looking for locations in Manhattan in addition to this one, the Time Warner Center and a site near Union Square. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SUBURBS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); PREPARED FOODS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MERCHANT BANKING (50%) Food; Supermarkets

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (63%); TRADER JOE'S CO (57%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (57%)

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



212 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2; Arts Briefing

LENGTH: 668 words

BYLINE: By Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:

HIGHLIGHTS

BONN VIOLINISTS RECONSIDER -- The 16 violinists of the Beethoven Orchestra in Bonn have had second thoughts about their lawsuit seeking higher wages than their colleagues because they play more notes. The violinists announced last week that the suit, which was to have been heard by a labor court, has been abandoned in favor of an attempt to negotiate a compromise with officials of the city of Bonn, which employs them, The Mail & Guardian of Johannesburg reported. ''We'll use the next few weeks to reach an acceptable solution,'' said Baerbel Dieckmann, the mayor. The 16 violinists of the 106-piece orchestra created a stir when they announced their claim in March for roughly $110 more for each rehearsal or performance. The members of the orchestra receive an average gross pay of $3,600 to $4,800 a month. When the suit was filed, the orchestra's director, Laurentius Bonitz, called it ridiculous.

GIVING: HELP FOR AN ORCHESTRA -- In these days of debt-ridden orchestras, which wouldn't envy the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra? In February it announced a projected $1.8 million accumulated deficit for the 2003 and 2004 fiscal years, mainly as a result of the impact on projected endowment income of a decline in the stock market. Last week a donor who asked to remain anonymous agreed to provide a gift to retire the deficit. Steven Monder, the president of the orchestra, said, ''This individual understands the value of maintaining a world-class orchestra in this community.''

LITERATURE: EXCHANGE OF WORDS -- The Obie Award-winning playwright Eve Ensler, left, (''The Vagina Monologues'') will be paired with the Iranian-born author Azar Nafisi (''Reading Lolita in Tehran'') in the second installment of the new PEN Foreign Exchanges at 7 tonight at the Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan. The series features foreign writers in conversation with their American counterparts. The event, introduced by the two-time Booker Prize winner Peter Carey, also features readings by Shohreh Aghdashloo, the Iranian-born actress nominated for an Academy Award (''House of Sand and Fog'') and the Tony-, Obie- and Emmy Award-winning actress Swoosie Kurtz, starring on Broadway in ''Frozen.'' Information: (212) 334-1660, Ext. 107.

CANNES: POLICE PRECAUTIONS -- Some 600 riot police and an equal number of reserves are to be assigned to the Cannes International Film Festival to shield it from disruptions by angry French actors and technicians. ''We are open to discussions, but I do not want the festival to be taken hostage,'' Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin said. ''We are not a society run by blackmail.'' Most of France's summer arts festivals were canceled last year in the dispute over unemployment benefits, and the Communist-led General Labor Confederation has vowed that ''the 2004 Cannes festival will be memorable.'' The event runs from May 12 through May 23. Cannes officials said the police would be deployed around La Croisette, the beach promenade in the Riviera community where most of the festival activity is centered, Reuters reported.

FOOTNOTES

The Michael Moore documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' has been bought by a leading British distributor, Optimum Releasing, for release there this summer, Reuters reported, citing The Financial Times. The Walt Disney Company has refused to allow its Miramax division to distribute the film, which is critical of President Bush's actions before and after Sept. 11, 2001. . . . The art of Dr. Seuss, including rarely seen original material, is the focus of the new exhibition running through July 11 at the Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art in Amherst, Mass. ''Four Points of the Compass: The Many Paths of Dr. Seuss,'' organized in honor of the centennial of the birth of Theodor Seuss Geisel, includes original art from his first Dr. Seuss book (''And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street'') to his last (''Oh, the Places You'll Go!). The ''Mulberry Street'' drawings have never previously been on public display.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The curtain falls: singers in ''The Barber of Seville'' by the recently formed Savoy Opera of London, which has announced that it is ceasing to stage operas after June 19. (Report, left.) (Photo by Alastair Muir)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); CELEBRITIES (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); WRITERS (86%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); FILM (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); RIOTS (63%); THEATER (57%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Music; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: Beethoven Orchestra

PERSON: Lawrence Van Gelder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (53%) Bonn (Germany)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



213 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: A Son of Manhattan Sees SoHo Upstate

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y., May 4 

 BODY:
There's a new Bossman in town.
 Last year, he was earning a C-plus in real estate development at the Wharton School. This year, he is renovating part of a city. 
 The Bossman is turning a cluster of forgotten warehouses into SoHo-style lofts, like the one he grew up in. Then he plans to sell each loft for $200,000 to $250,000 -- about twice the price of the average home here, and in an economy that's stubbornly depressed. 
 ''There were some skeptics in the beginning,'' admitted the mayor, Richard A. Bucci.
 But the Bossman, as those who work on his construction project affectionately call Ari Meisel, has been able to win over many of the skeptics. Partly because his father, Louis K. Meisel, helped turn SoHo, in Lower Manhattan, into what it is today. Partly because the younger Mr. Meisel has already worked at lightning speed to move his plans from paper to brick. But mainly because he's financing the $2 million project himself, using $500,000 of his own savings and a personal line of credit from the Bank of New York. 
 Mr. Meisel, 21, is relying on instinct rather than experience, and that's enough for Mayor Bucci to call him one of the best things to happen to Binghamton in the last decade. ''Seeing is believing,'' Mr. Bucci said.
 Before Mr. Meisel came along, the warehouses along North Depot Street, like many throughout upstate, had been empty places where past generations once earned paychecks decent enough to pay for modest homes in greener neighborhoods. 
 They had been used for wholesale meat distribution. Train cars filled with slaughtered cattle would chug into the adjoining railyard, where workers would hoist the carcasses onto hooks that glided into the buildings. 
 In the last few years, the warehouses saw more pigeons than business, though the smell of cows' blood lingers.
 And they might have faded into irrelevancy if not for Anthony Brunelli, an artist with two big loyalties: the City of Binghamton, where he grew up, and Louis K. Meisel, the SoHo art gallery owner who put the rest of the world within Mr. Brunelli's reach. 
 At 23, during a trip to New York City in his senior year at Binghamton University, Mr. Brunelli walked into Mr. Meisel's gallery with a postcard sample of his art. 
 As a student, he had been inspired by Mr. Meisel's promotion of photorealism, a form of painting so detailed it resembles a photograph. ''He called me up later and told me to continue painting,'' Mr. Brunelli said.
 Three weeks after he turned a painting over to Louis Meisel, the gallery sold it for $12,000. It was the beginning of a new life for Mr. Brunelli, who had been a teenage husband and father, working three jobs to put himself through school and support his family.
 Mr. Brunelli, now 35 and divorced, stayed in Binghamton, painting regional landscapes and buildings that he said an art professor once told him would be of no interest outside the area. 
 Today, his work is purchased worldwide, through Mr. Meisel's gallery.
 Mr. Brunelli loved his city, 175 miles northwest of New York City, but he also admired the atmosphere of SoHo, and he believed he could have both.
 Four years ago, he bought a downtown building for $75,000. He spent an additional $80,000 renovating it. He has a large loft for himself and his two daughters, Mercedes, 16, and Mckenzie, 11, as well as a studio, a classroom and a public gallery. 
 ''I love the space and the naturalness,'' said Mr. Brunelli. ''I could never live any other way.'' 
 Last August, he saw potential in the brick warehouses on North Depot Street, and he called Louis Meisel, who said, 'Ari's looking for a project,''' according to Mr. Brunelli.
 The younger Mr. Meisel, having graduated early from college, had not earned a C-plus in real estate development because he was lazy, he said, but because he was impatient. He decided part way into his junior year that he wanted to finish, and took on seven classes at once. 
 ''I didn't worry about grades,'' he said. ''I needed to get back out working.''
 Ari Meisel had his first paying job at 6, as a magician for toddlers. At 9, he modeled for the Gap and other stores. By 12, he had his own Web site design company, Liontex, and at 14, he was hiring his friends as contract employees.
 At 15, he started his second business, Menus-to-Go.com, and at 16 he added Tek, a technology consulting business. 
 In his spare time, he earned a private pilot's license and a real estate broker's license; he also became a notary public.
 Mr. Meisel ran all three businesses during high school, sleeping three hours a night and during the occasional class or two at the United Nations School --without the benefit of coffee. 
 ''People would say, 'Ari, you're missing your childhood,''' he said. ''My parents were two extremes. My mother was extremely caring; my father was tough. I kept pushing myself harder.'' 
 In Mr. Meisel's impetuous last year at Wharton, a professor of real estate development, Asuka Nakahara, advised him to work for himself. ''He's the kind of person you meet in life who doesn't always write a great memo or always talk succinctly, but he's intuitive,'' Mr. Nakahara said.
 Last year, Mr. Brunelli was beckoning. The Bossman borrowed his uncle's plane, flew to Binghamton and ended up buying seven buildings for $400,000, plus, later, a few extras -- two city streets, to avoid too much red tape. 
 He hired local architects and contractors, but when a local bank turned him down on financing, he went to the Bank of New York, his bank in New York City. 
 Then he put on a hard hat and set to work right beside the construction workers.
 Mr. Meisel said he works nearly every waking moment, except for a half-hour each day when he sits in his truck outside the buildings to admire them. The mayor recently appointed him to the city's architectural review board.
 He plans to own one of the lofts, expected to be ready in November, as does the project's contractor, Mark Dozoretz, who is giving up a three-bedroom white clapboard home in Binghamton for a 2,500-square-foot loft with a roof terrace and a bird's-eye view of Binghamton's minor league baseball stadium.
 A mortgage broker has signed a commitment letter, too. That makes three of the first seven lofts already spoken for, and there's still a stray pigeon in the buildings. Mr. Meisel is confident he can find 19 more buyers for the project's second phase, and he thinks some of those lofts might fetch up to $500,000 each.
 ''I think at first a lot of people thought I was just a kid and I wouldn't be able to do it,'' said the Bossman. ''But I'm still here, and I'm making progress every day.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ari Meisel, 21, and the block of brick warehouses he is developing into high-priced lofts in Binghamton, N.Y.
 Anthony Brunelli, whose artwork is shown at the SoHo gallery owned by Ari Meisel's father, converted a Binghamton warehouse into a loft. (Photographs by Bill Wingell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); ART DEALERS (84%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); HOME PRICES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



214 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

As Documentaries Prosper, New Challenges for HBO
In nurturing and releasing films like ''Capturing the Friedmans,'' above, Sheila Nevins, executive vice president of HBO and Cinemax, has unwittingly made her job much more difficult.
 As movie studios and rival cable outlets rush to feed the audience's craving for documentaries, Ms. Nevins must change the way she does business. For example, when buying a documentary, HBO no longer insists that it be shown on HBO first before a lengthy release in theaters. [Page C7.]

SunTrust to Buy National Commerce
SunTrust Banks said that it would buy National Commerce Financial in a deal worth $6.98 billion. [C2.]

2 Directors of TV Azteca Resign
With its chairman under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Mexican regulators, the No.2 broadcaster in Mexico, TV Azteca, has announced that two of the independent directors on its board have resigned. [C2.]

I.B.M. Takes Aim at Microsoft
I.B.M. plans to announce a new software strategy for corporate desktop personal computers and hand-held devices -- one that is firmly anchored in the company's strength in data centers. [C4.]

Resurgence of Undersea Cable
Ambitious new undersea cable projects are under way after the industry suffered from a financial collapse. [C4.]

Initial Public Offering Fraud Alleged
According to investigators, at least five people were conned into pledging a total of $2.8 million for Google's initial public offering -- before the company had announced any plans to sell shares. [C5.]

Illuminating Blacked-Out Words
Researchers at a conference in Switzerland have demonstrated computer-based techniques that can identify blacked-out words and phrases in confidential documents. [C4.]

In Pursuit of Advertising Buzz
The Crispin Porter & Bogusky agency has concocted an advertising campaign disguised as a debate over whether a British engineer has built robots out of Mini car parts. The same agency, to promote Burger King's TenderCrisp chicken sandwich, put up an oddball Web site with a mock Webcam trained on someone dressed in a chicken costume. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C8.]

Trying to Prove Value of Web Ads
Consumer goods companies represented just 7 percent of the $7.3 billion spent on online advertising last year, according to industry data. Yahoo is trying to change that with a new program created to show how much Internet ads increase sales. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

Group Expands Nielsen Challenge
The group that had a hand in forcing Nielsen Media Research to delay changes in how it gathers local television ratings data in New York plans a new challenge in Chicago and Los Angeles. [C12.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,117.34 down 108.23Nasdaq composite -- 1,917.96 down 2.1910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.78% up 0.27The euro -- $1.1895 down 0.0091The dollar -- 112.15 yen up 1.83

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (88%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (83%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (80%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (65%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (57%); NATIONAL COMMERCE FINANCIAL CORP (57%); TV AZTECA SA DE CV (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); STI (NYSE) (57%); AZTECA (BMV) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (50%) SWITZERLAND (73%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



215 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2; BOXING

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Boxers Who Are Losers; Promoters Who Love Them

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY GRAY

DATELINE: BARTLESVILLE, Okla. 

 BODY:
Reggie Strickland, a middleweight from Indianapolis, fights once a month, often more. Though he is not without talent, Strickland has made his mark as a perennial loser during 17 years of professional fighting; he has lost 260 of 344 fights, some under his name and some under pseudonyms like Reggie Buse and Reggie Raglin.
 Verdell Smith, a welterweight from Bartlesville, has also established himself as a journeyman capable of providing an up-and-coming boxer with a challenging match that does not usually carry with it the risk of defeat.
 Smith, whose record is 41-73, has also fought under a variety of names. Eight times, he has faced welterweight Buck Smith, no relation. Verdell Smith lost all eight matches: twice under his own name, twice as Tommy Bowles and four times as Tim Brooks, according to state regulators and databases of boxers' records. 
 ''Fighting under different names is what we needed to do, to get paid,'' Verdell Smith said. ''A journeyman, that's all you can really be coming up from here.''
 Tomato cans, palookas, bums, stiffs: boxing has myriad words to describe these boxers' singular purpose: to provide more promising fighters a chance to pad their records and enhance their careers.
 They are the opponents who are summoned from out of town to serve as last-minute replacements, the trial horses fighting in preliminary bouts hours before most fans make it to their seats, the tankers whom prospects must punish to look good.
 Sometimes, they may upset an opponent. But far more often they lose, and that is no surprise. They have been carefully selected by matchmakers and promoters to perform as best they can and to lose, preferably by a close margin.
 ''Outside of boxing, people will call it fight fixing, but inside of boxing this is the art of matchmaking,'' said Sean Gibbons, a matchmaker and Verdell Smith's manager, who acknowledged that he had occasionally climbed through the ropes to fight under aliases like The Matchmaker and Adrian Crawford. ''That's not criminal. That's making a living.''
 What some view as a relatively innocent mismatch can be construed by others as a rigged fight. Mismatches are among the subjects being explored by federal investigators, who for two years have been examining boxing and, in particular, one of its elite promotional companies, Top Rank Inc., based in Las Vegas. Some members of Congress are also concerned about journeymen who travel the country and earn a few hundred dollars to take a beating, sometimes under a variety of names to escape the attention of state regulators. Federal law now requires fighters to provide photo identification to receive boxing licenses; state regulators say it is now more difficult to fight under pseudonyms.
 ''The epidemic of fighters getting knocked out in different states under different names every other night just breaks my heart,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said in an interview.
 McCain is co-author of a bill that would establish a federal commission to regulate boxing and create national standards. Boxing is the only major sport that lacks a central authority. The bill, approved by the Senate on March 31, has gone to the House for consideration.
 In boxing's depressed financial climate, with unblemished records drawing a high premium, boxers willing to take on a superior opponent have been in high demand. That has made for peculiar economics: for some fighters, it can be easier to make a living by losing rather than by winning.
 Many of these fighters maintain that they are doing nothing improper. They are not fixing a fight, they insist; they are simply willing to compete against better fighters.
 Bert Sugar, the boxing historian, is among those drawing a firm distinction between rigged fights and mismatches.
 ''Fixed fights used to happen like in old film noir movies, when you had a fighter in the tank and he would be told in the locker rooms, 'Kid, this ain't your night, go down in the third,' and his mobster promoter would make a killing on a bet,'' Sugar said.
 ''Now losing is just not that interesting. We have the guys who are never matched to win. Silent offerings.''
 Verdell Smith, who is 40, has been among these silent offerings. He was once part of a loose-knit group of fighters who referred to themselves jokingly as the Knucklehead Boxing Club and who logged hundreds of thousands of miles on the road.
 The way they tell it, a handful of fighters would squeeze into Gibbons's hatchback and put on bouts in places like Bozeman, Mont.; Goodlettsville, Tenn., which is near Nashville; and Bartlesville. They did it to collect quick purses, as many as possible. They would stuff cash they earned -- $50 to $100 a round -- into their athletic supporters to keep the money safe from thugs lingering around the ring, and then into their underwear before going to sleep to keep it safe from one another.
 ''We had to keep on moving,'' said Buck Smith, who earned a Guinness world record for winning 106 matches in a row, although it was against questionable opposition. In one month, Smith fought 12 times, winning bouts in Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Indiana, Tennessee and Oklahoma. He once fought twice in one night, in different states.
 In one stretch during the early 1990's, he defeated a series of opponents who fought under assumed names. He beat Kenneth Kidd, who fought as Tony Taylor; Rocky Berg, who fought as Rocky Vires; and Tony Enna, who appeared as Tony Montesoro, according to databases of boxers' records and state regulators.
 The boxing business is different in the middle of the country than it is on the coasts or in Las Vegas, where full-time fighters tend to flock. Matches take place less frequently here and tend to be no longer than six rounds. The only way for a talented fighter to attract national attention is to compile a whopping number of victories, the way Buck Smith did. He retired last year with a record of 179-16. Or they can establish a reputation as a worthy opponent, as Verdell Smith has done.
 Verdell Smith's record, when fighting under his own name, is 41-48; he has lost an additional 25 bouts when appearing under pseudonyms, according to state regulators and the boxing databases.
 The F.B.I., as part of its inquiry, has questioned a number of the aging Knucklehead alumni, a law enforcement official said. Investigators have also been sifting through state records in Oklahoma for evidence of fight fixing and other crimes, like social security fraud, tax evasion and forging medical records.
 ''We're looking at everything,'' the law enforcement official said.
 Gibbons, who considers himself a co-founder of the Knucklehead Boxing Club, said he was among those who had drawn the attention of federal investigators. Gibbons was reared in Oklahoma City and moved to Las Vegas to work at Top Rank as a matchmaker for preliminary bouts.
 When federal agents first began conducting background checks on Top Rank employees, the law enforcement official said, they came across a 1997 report produced by state investigators in Oklahoma titled ''Allegations of Fraud and Other Corruption in Professional Boxing.''
 The report contends that Gibbons, working in concert with other local matchmakers and boxing agents, defrauded fans and skirted state laws by taking fighters under fake names to bouts in states outside Oklahoma (once even using the name of a dead fighter). The report also said that Gibbons and other matchmakers had told fighters to lose in order to pad the victors' records, creating ''a carnival atmosphere'' one step removed from professional wrestling. No one was charged with a crime as a result of the report.
 Using fake names was the equivalent of using alter egos, Gibbons said. He denied that he had told fighters to lose, though he admitted that many of his fighters had only a puncher's chance of winning, like the time he sent Ross Puritty of Norman, Okla., to Ukraine to battle the former Olympic gold medalist Wladimir Klitschko in 1998. Puritty, then 25-13, stopped Klitschko, an undefeated heavyweight, in the 11th round.
 ''That wasn't part of the script,'' Gibbons said, ''but that's what's great about boxing. You never know what might happen next.''
 Gibbons, who no longer works for Top Rank, said that while he was in Las Vegas two years ago, he became friendly with Frankie Manzione, an undercover detective on loan from the New York Police Department, according to the law enforcement official.
 Gibbons said he had introduced Manzione to the insular world of boxing and had taught Manzione how to work a fighter's corner as a second. Manzione began working the corners of Gibbons's fighters while wearing a wiretap, the law enforcement official said. Among the fighters he worked with was Verdell Smith.
 ''None of my fights are fixed,'' Smith said. ''I just don't like getting hurt, and I'm not going to risk my brain and my kids to prove anything.''
 ''I'm not in it for the recognition,'' he said. ''I fight, I get paid, and I go home, that's all I do. I don't really have a story to tell.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Verdell Smith, whose record is 41-73, has made a living providing up-and-coming fighters with matches in out-of-the-way places. (Photo by Jeffrey Haderthauer/ICON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



216 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Passage Out of Poverty Is Cut Short by Antiterror Snare

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: RIRKA BALA, Pakistan, May 5 

 BODY:
Sitting in the compound of her mud house in this dusty farming village in eastern Pakistan, Bibi Bakhtan, 61, wiped dust from a framed photograph of her dead son and posed a universal question. 
 ''Can mothers forget their sons?'' she sighed.
 Surrounded by grandchildren and a few ambling goats, her voice quivered with grief as she talked about her son, Muhammad Riaz. 
 Just over two years ago, Mr. Riaz, then 30, and five other Pakistani men and an Indian, were shot dead in Macedonia by the local police. At the time, the police said the men were Al Qaeda-linked terrorists plotting to attack Western embassies in the capital, Skopje. 
 This month, the Macedonian government disclosed that a police inquiry had found the slain men innocent of those charges. They were not terrorists, but rather illegal immigrants seeking a better life in Europe. And their deaths, the inquiry found, was an effort to advance Macedonia's status in the campaign against terrorism. 
 ''It was staged, a monstrous killing of seven economic migrants,'' said Mirjana Kontevska, a spokeswoman for Macedonia's Interior Ministry. 
 The March 2002 killings, she said, were part of an attempt by the interior minister at that time, Ljube Boskovski, and four police officers to ''present themselves as participants in the war against terrorism and demonstrate Macedonia's commitment to the war on terrorism.'' 
 Interviews with the families of the slain men reveal one common wish: to earn a better living by going abroad. All had found illegal passage to Europe before falling prey to what Macedonian authorities called a ''meticulous plan to promote Macedonia as a player in the fight against global terrorism.''
 Life moves slowly here in Rirka Bala. Trucks and tractors move ploddingly on patchy roads that pierce fields of wheat and sugar cane and link small mud and brown brick houses scattered among the fields.
 The inhabitants are small farmers who toil under the scorching sun. Villagers say few here can afford an education.
 But among the mud houses every now and then stands a grand multistoried house with huge front pillars and marble finishing. Local residents say these towering houses have been built with money sent back by Pakistanis working in the United States or in Europe as laborers, cab drivers or technicians. 
 The affluence of some, it seems, has aroused envy in the hearts of many.
 Muhammad Riaz belonged to a caste known as Mussalis, Hindu converts to Islam who do menial jobs in the villages of Punjab. He, too, dreamed of having a big house, like the ones he saw in his village and neighboring towns, relatives said. He thought going to Europe was the only way he could fulfill this dream.
 And so his family borrowed $1,550 from a local landlord, paid $850 to a travel agent to arrange a fake visa and passport, and gave the rest to Mr. Riaz for travel expenses.
 Trying to get into Europe illegally is common here. ''There are so many people who have gone abroad on fake documents and are earning now,'' said Mr. Riaz's mother, Bibi Bakhtan. ''We didn't think it was wrong. Everybody was doing it.''
 During the late 1970's and early 1980's, it was relatively easy to get a visa for the United States and parts of Europe, village residents said. But as Western countries toughened their immigration policies, the human trafficking business flourished in this district, Mandi Bahauddin, and in neighboring Gujrat.
 Gujrat, in particular, is notorious as a human trafficking hub. Over the past decade, Pakistani news media reports suggest, Gujrat's traffickers have sent at least 200,000 Pakistanis to Greece, Italy, Spain and other countries. One popular route has been through Iran, Turkey and Greece into other European countries, according to local news media reports.
 In November 2001, Mr. Riaz went to Turkey via Iran, according to his family. ''Riaz called us from Turkey in early 2002 and told us that he was fine,'' said Mehr Din, his father.
 That was the last word his family received from him. 
 ''We didn't hear anything else until one day his body came in a coffin,'' said Mr. Din, 70, his wrinkled, sun-bronzed face contorting with pain. Having placed all their hopes and borrowed money on Mr. Riaz's journey abroad, the family expects to be in debt for the next seven years. 
 According to Macedonian authorities, the six Pakistani men -- Mr. Riaz, Omar Farooq, Syed Bilal Hussein Shah, Asif Javed, Khalid Iqbal and Ijaz Ahmed -- were in Bulgaria hoping to make their way to Western Europe when they were lured across the border into Macedonia and housed by Macedonian police who then shot them. 
 After the killings, Macedonian officials displayed uniforms and badges bearing the insignia of the National Liberation Army, an ethnic Albanian rebel force that fought government troops. Ethnic Albanian politicians denied any links to the slain men.
 The Indian killed with the Pakistani men was a Sikh whose identity is still being sought by Ansar Burney, a Pakistani civil rights activist. 
 Among the victims was Ijaz Ahmed, 21, who according to his brother, Azhar Javed, a 33-year-old cab driver from the village of Sivia, wanted to go to Europe to help his family. Mr. Ahmed hoped to help the family escape from the poverty that had ensnared it for generations.
 Sitting glumly with his 66-year-old mother, Ghulam Fatima, who sobbed at each mention of her son, Mr. Javed said that many people from Sivia were working abroad. 
 ''Ijaz wanted to earn money like them, so he could arrange for the weddings of his four sisters,'' Mr. Javed said. ''He wasn't a terrorist.''
 In the nearby village of Sohawa Diloana, Muhammad Mehdi, 47, a retired army wireless radio operator, said he thought sending his 18-year-old son abroad would improve the family's living conditions. 
 His son, Asif Javed, left Pakistan in August 2001. His father last heard from him when he telephoned from Turkey in early 2002. Eight weeks later, news of his death wrecked his father. 
 ''Now I tell people, 'Eat dirt but never send your children abroad,''' he said, sitting in the village cemetery. He adjusted a garland on his son's grave, and prayed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bibi Bakhtan, right, with her grandchildren. Her son was killed along with five other Pakistani men in 2002 by the Macedonian police. The men were called terrorists but have since been found innocent. (Photo by Salman Masood for The New York Times)Map of Pakistan highlighting Rirka Bala: Some residents of Rirka Bala, Pakistan, use fake visas to escape.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CHILDREN (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); FAMILY (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); RELIGION (60%) Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Salman Masood

GEOGRAPHIC: MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (97%); PAKISTAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Macedonia (Former Yugoslav Republic); Pakistan; India; Macedonia (Former Yugoslav Republic)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



217 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Herbal Drug Widely Embraced In Treating Resistant Malaria

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
After years of hesitation, world health agencies are racing to acquire 100 million doses of a Chinese herbal drug that has proved strikingly effective against malaria, one of the leading killers of the poor.
 The drug, artemisinin (pronounced are-TEM-is-in-in), is a compound based on qinghaosu, or sweet wormwood. First isolated in 1965 by Chinese military researchers, it cut the death rate by 97 percent in a malaria epidemic in Vietnam in the early 1990's. 
 It is rapidly replacing quinine derivatives and later drugs against which the disease has evolved into resistant strains. 
 To protect artemisinin from the same fate, it will be given as part of multidrug cocktails.
 Until recently, big donors like the United States and Britain had opposed its use on a wide scale, saying it was too expensive, had not been tested enough on children and was not needed in areas where other malaria drugs still worked. 
 Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, which procures drugs for the world's poorest countries, opposed its use during an Ethiopian epidemic last year, saying that there was too little supply and that switching drugs in mid-outbreak would cause confusion.
 But now almost all donors, Unicef and the World Bank have embraced the drug. The new Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria has given 11 countries grants to buy artemisinin and has instructed 34 others to drop requests for two older drugs -- chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine -- and switch to the new one. 
 ''We want countries to move very rapidly to use it as a first-line treatment,'' said Dr. Vinand Nantulya, the fund's malaria adviser. The fund expects to spend $450 million on the drug over the next five years, he said. 
 The World Health Organization, a United Nations agency based in Geneva, estimates that 100 million doses will be needed by late 2005. 
 Malaria causes about 300 million illnesses a year, and at least 1 million deaths, 90 percent of them in Africa and most of them children under 5. Despite more than a century of eradication efforts, the disease is endemic from the Mekong Delta in Vietnam to the Amazon Basin in Brazil, and is particularly severe across central Africa, from the cane fields of Mozambique to the oases of Somalia to the rubber plantations of Liberia. 
 Like many tropical disease drugs, artemisinin is a fruit of military research. Chinese scientists first isolated it in 1965 while seeking a new antimalarial treatment for Vietnamese troops fighting American forces, said Dr. Nelson Tan, medical director of Holley Pharmaceuticals, which makes the drug in Chongqing, China.
 Another antimalarial drug still in use, mefloquine, was isolated at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in 1963 for American troops in the same jungles. Under the name Lariam, it is still issued to troops and sold to travelers.
 Artemisinin, which has no significant side effects, quickly reduces fevers and rapidly lowers blood-parasite levels, which can keep small outbreaks in mosquito-infested areas from becoming epidemics. 
 Two years ago, Dr. Dennis Carroll, a health adviser to the United States Agency for International Development, said artemisinin was ''not ready for prime time.'' But on April 30 at a malaria conference at the Columbia University School of Public Health, he led a session on ways to induce farmers to plant more wormwood. 
 Dr. Carroll said that more evidence had emerged that the drug was safe and that older drugs were not working. Also, the creation of the Global Fund expedited grants for it. 
 Dr. Stewart Tyson, a health expert with the British Department for International Development, said his agency changed its opinion about the drug after its experience in Uganda, where resistance to older drugs had climbed to 31 percent in some areas in 2003 from 6 percent in 2000. 
 The price of artemisinin cocktails has fallen from $2 per treatment to 90 cents or less as more companies in China, India and Vietnam have begun making them. (Older drugs cost only 20 cents.) Novartis, the Swiss drug giant, sells its artemisinin-lumefantrine mix, Coartem, to poor countries for 10 cents less than it costs to make, a company official said. The same drug, under the name Riamet, is sold to European travelers for about $20. 
 As a plant material, artemisinin cannot be patented, said Dr. Allan Schapira, a policy specialist for the Roll Back Malaria campaign of the World Health Organization. Nor can the simple extraction process. Some synthetics, he said, are old and off patent, which public health officials like but pharmaceutical companies do not, because they make a larger profit from drugs on which they have patent monopolies. 
 No company has registered artemisinin in the United States, said Dr. Nick White, a professor of tropical medicine at Mahidol University in Thailand, because sales would be too small to justify the cost of seeking approval from the Food and Drug Administration. 
 Now, with more purchases, fears of a shortage that would push prices up are developing. The W.H.O. estimates that 100 million doses will be needed by late 2005, and the world now has only about a third of that.
 Though it grows wild even in the United States, wormwood is cultivated only in China, Vietnam and pilot projects in Tanzania and India. It is planted in December and needs eight months to mature. Drug companies want firm orders from donors before they try to triple production. 
 Dr. Tan said he had seed banks ready to plant 62,000 acres, ''but we need to pay farmers to give up other crops and arrange for fertilizer.'' 
 ''Time is against us,'' he said. 
 Even if enough artemisinin can be made, obstacles will arise, experts warned. For example, Dr. Kopano Mukelabai, a malaria specialist at Unicef, said shopkeepers would have to be trained not to sell one or two pills to patients who lacked the money for a full course of 12. 
 And what Richard Allan, director of the Mentor Initiative, a public health group that fights malaria epidemics, called ''the love of chloroquine'' will have to be broken. That quinine derivative, in use since the 1950's, is now almost useless against parasites, but poor people still buy it because it is cheap and lowers fever as aspirin does. 
 Also, counterfeiting will become a problem. In Kenya in 1997, Mr. Allan said, he found 120 versions of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for sale, ''ranging from very good drugs to talcum powder.'' A recent study of artemisinin drugs in Asia ''found that 38 percent were fakes,'' he said. ''We can expect the same thing to happen in Africa.'' 
 He favors giving artemisinin away to remove the counterfeiters' profit motive.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Resurgent Malaria''More and more strains of malaria are developing resistance to the two mostused malaria drugs. Below, resistance rates in several regions.Chart shows resistance rates to two malaria drugs in the following regions:Bandudu, CongoKajo Keji, SudanIsoka, ZambiaCaala, AngolaNiger delta, NigeriaMatru, Sierra Leone(Source by Doctors Without Borders)(pg. A6)Map of Africa highlighting area of high malaria transmission. (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (96%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); HERBAL MEDICINE (91%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); DRUG RESISTANCE (78%); ARMIES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); AIDS & HIV (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TUBERCULOSIS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%) Malaria; Artemisinin (Drug); Children and Youth; Malaria; Quinine (Drug); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies; Foreign Aid; Malaria

COMPANY: HOLLEY PHARMACEUTICALS (CHONGQING) CO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (93%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%) World Health Organization; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; World Health Organization; United Nations Children's Fund

TICKER: 000607 (SZSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (58%)

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); AFRICA (94%); VIET NAM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (92%); LIBERIA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOMALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%) Great Britain; Vietnam; Africa; Ethiopia; China

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



218 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Once There Was a Market in East Harlem, and Maybe Again

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
Elizabeth Colon and Bernard Lifschultz recall the glory days. She is determined to revive them. He doubts they can be revived. 
 They are talking about La Marqueta, once a widely known five-block market in the heart of East Harlem that was both a bustling commercial bazaar and a community meeting place for the overwhelmingly Puerto Rican population that came to dominate the area after World War II. 
 Today that vibrant market is a memory. Instead of five buildings crowded with shoppers and 200 or more vendors carrying a cornucopia of tropical foodstuffs and mainland merchandise, there are just Mr. Lifschultz and seven other merchants clustered in one area of the shabby, mostly vacant single building still in use. And they are largely trying just to survive as they cater to what is often a slow trickle of customers. 
 The five buildings used to stretch under the Park Avenue railroad viaduct from 111th to 116th Streets, but three of them are gone now and the fourth is shut tight. The one barely in use runs from 114th to 115th Streets. 
 Ms. Colon, who came to the city-owned market as a child with her mother in the 1950's, is executive director of the East Harlem Business Capital Corporation, a nonprofit group that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration has put in charge of redeveloping the market to its old five-block size.
 The city gave her group until the end of the year to come up with the combination of government and bank financing needed to cover the expected $21 million cost, and to gather enough letters of intent from interested businesses to make the project viable. 
 Proposals to stem the market's decline have risen and fallen in recent years and renovations of the two remaining buildings were carried out in the 1990's with, obviously, no lasting effect, but Ms. Colon said recently that she was optimistic about her group's chances for success.
 ''We have had great encouragement from the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone,'' she said of a federal program that uses public funds and tax incentives as catalysts for private investment in revitalization projects, ''and from the Empire State Development Corporation,'' a state agency. She called the encouragement heartening at a time of tight constraints on government budgets.
 Many people in the area also support the project, she said. ''It's a source of pain in the community that it's gotten to where it has,'' she said of the market's long slide into near nonexistence. 
 Mr. Lifschultz, who has sold food in the market for 55 of his 84 years -- bacalao, or dried cod, is his main offering -- said recently from behind his counter that he hoped to hang on in the market for ''as long as I can at my age.'' As for the revival project coming to completion, ''I have my doubts,'' he said.
 ''It's very quiet,'' he said of his business. ''But I still get by. I have people who have been coming for years.'' They come, he said, because they prefer his bacalao to the packaged and more expensive product sold in supermarkets.
 ''You can grind it and make fish cakes out of it,'' he said. ''You can use it in salads.'' 
 Mr. Lifschultz and Ms. Colon may differ in their view of the prospects for restoring the market, but they agree on what was lost.
 ''It was very busy,'' Mr. Lifschultz said of the years after he arrived a half-century ago, setting up shop in one of the other buildings. He recalled up to 200 food and clothing vendors in the five buildings during the market's heyday, which he said lasted into the 1960's. (The market opened in 1936.) 
 ''There was a waiting list to get in,'' he said of merchants. As for customers, on the weekend it was so crowded that ''you had to fight your way in.''
 ''Now a lot of people have forgotten we're here,'' he said as another Metro-North train rumbled by on the tracks above the roof.
 Ms. Colon, recalling her childhood visits to La Marqueta, spoke of ''hearing the trains above'' and of ''the numbers of people, the smells.'' Though her family lived on the Lower East Side, her mother traveled to the market in Spanish Harlem, Ms. Colon said, ''because it was where Puerto Rican families went to get their soul food.''
 Mr. Lifschultz said the market's decline began in the 1960's with incomplete renovations after fires and neglectful upkeep by the city. Ms. Colon said it started in the 70's, when a city fiscal crisis reduced municipal money for such upkeep.
 There was also a ''depopulation of East Harlem and other communities'' in the city in that decade, she said, as housing abandonment spread. And she spoke of ''an attitudinal change -- people were looking more to supermarkets.''
 Supermarkets are even more numerous now, and there is a large Pathmark that opened five years ago at 125th Street and Lexington Avenue and draws many East Harlem shoppers. So why is she optimistic about reviving the market? 
 ''The pendulum has swung,'' she said. ''Now consumers are looking to farmers' markets, public markets, places that aren't sterile, cookie-cutter.''
 The two existing buildings will be demolished, Ms. Colon said, and the new market will take into account the food interests of new groups that have been arriving in the area in sizable numbers from Mexico, West Africa and the Caribbean. Future rents have not been determined, she said, but the goal is ''to keep them as affordable as possible'' while doing ''the kinds of things that attract customers.''
 One vendor pays a rent of $600 a month, but the seven others' rents average $188 a month, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Jose Cintron, 55, who has run a butcher stall there since 1980 and started working in the market for other vendors in the 60's, pays the $600 rent. ''I survive,'' he said, expressing hope for a revival.
 At the stall called X-Square International Foods, whose offerings include dried cod, cassava meal and throat and nasal drops, the owner, who gave her name only as Grace, expressed optimism that the market would be born again.
 Recalling that Mayor Bloomberg himself announced the redevelopment vision in October, she said: ''I know this mayor. When he says he'll do it, he will do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The way it is: One of eight remaining vendors at the old market, Bernard Lifschultz has time to read. ''It's very quiet,'' he said. ''But I still get by.'' (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
 The way it was: In January 1981, commerce was brisk in the food booths under the Park Avenue rail viaduct. (Photo by John Sotomayer/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGETS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TAX LAW (63%); WORLD WAR II (56%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



219 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Honor for Dr. King Splits Florida City, And Faces Reversal

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: ZEPHYRHILLS, Fla., May 8 

 BODY:
It is a languid, pretty street lined with fat orange trees and live oaks, buzzing lawn mowers, an occasional picket fence. It runs clear through town, ambling over the railroad tracks and ending at a pasture full of cows. 
 Its new name, Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, has been tearing Zephyrhills apart. 
 Last October, Irene Dobson, a black woman, asked the City Council to rename the street for Dr. King, as hundreds of places have done since his death in 1968. The Council voted 4 to 1 on Oct. 27 to honor her request and ordered new signs for the street that had been Sixth Avenue. 
 The protests quickly began. A petition to recall the council members arose, along with another to overturn the decision. Sixth Avenue residents said that the Council had railroaded the plan without consulting them and that they did not want the bother of changing their addresses. A business owner told local newspapers that property values would fall, saying streets named after Dr. King were a guarantee of economic blight.
 Their battle mirrors dozens that have erupted around the country over plans to rename streets for Dr. King, but with a twist: on Monday, the City Council is to finalize a reversal of its vote and remove Dr. King's name. The decision would put Zephyrhills among only a handful of cities that have put up street signs bearing Dr. King's name, then taken them down because of community uproar. Accusations of racism are swirling, supporters of the name change are picketing City Hall, and a white supremacist Web site is praising the Council's change of heart.
 Virtually all of the protesters are white, as are most of the 11,000 people who live in Zephyrhills, which is 35 miles northeast of Tampa and known for the bottled spring water that carries its name, with the slogan ''Pure Water from a Pure Place.'' Most of the roughly 100 people who signed Mrs. Dobson's petition requesting the name change are black. Many, like her, live near Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue on the other side of the train tracks, outside the city limits. But most residents of the renamed street are white.
 Bitterness is everywhere: in the Crystal bar, where customers rolled their eyes when asked about the name change; in a driveway on Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, where four men socializing after work said they had been robbed of their voice; and in front of City Hall, where Mae Pickett, waving a sign supporting the renaming, said the rift reminded her of 1967, when she and other black students joined whites at Zephyrhills High School instead of being bused to nearby Dade City.
 ''It's 2004 and we're still fighting for respect,'' said Ms. Pickett, who was among about 20 protesters at Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue and Eighth Street on Thursday afternoon. ''They've put out all these excuses about the process not followed, but it's racism, plain and simple.''
 Just as emotional are those who fought the name change, or silently questioned it, and say they have been unfairly maligned. 
 ''We're just kind of sick about the thing and wish it would go away,'' said Cullen E. Smith Jr., whose family has been here for six generations and whose son, Lance, was one of the City Council members who voted for the renaming. Cullen Smith said he would have preferred to name the street after Abraham Lincoln, who he said had done ''more for the black people than just about anybody.''
 ''We're being portrayed as a racist little town, but I don't think they've really understood the heart of Zephyrhills,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Derek Alderman, a geography professor at East Carolina University who has studied the politics of naming streets for Dr. King, said at least 650 streets have been given his name in at least 41 states, often not without controversy.
 Most of the streets are in the South, in places where the population is at least 30 percent black. Georgia, Dr. King's birthplace, has the most, Dr. Alderman said. Many run mostly through black neighborhoods, he said, often because efforts to name a central thoroughfare for Dr. King fail.
 ''The second choices are often not the most prominent, the most healthy streets,'' Dr. Alderman said. 
 San Diego's decision to rename a major thoroughfare, Market Street, for Dr. King in 1986 was so unpopular that residents got an initiative on the ballot a year later to change the name back, and won. And in 1979, the Alabama Legislature repealed a 1976 resolution naming a section of an Interstate highway after Dr. King. 
 But far more common, Dr. Alderman said, is for a city to scrap contentious plans to rename a street well before new signs go up. That happened last year in Muncie, Ind., and more recently in Portsmouth, N.H., which decided to name a park for Dr. King instead.
 Here, as elsewhere, most opponents of the renaming who are willing to talk publicly say that they are not racist and that their concerns are purely pragmatic. Residents of the street said that they did not want the inconvenience of changing their addresses and that it made no sense, since the city is laid out on a grid of numbered streets and avenues.
 The outcry led one council member who had approved the renaming to propose rescinding the decision in November. The move failed then. There has been no recall vote, but in a regular election last month, Lance Smith lost his Council seat to Gina King, who lives on the street and had promised to force a new vote on the issue if elected.
 On April 26, before an emotional crowd of 200, the Council voted 3 to 2 to rescind the name change. A final vote is scheduled for Monday night.
 ''It has nothing to do with racism,'' said Rich LaCasse, a retired business owner. ''We were never given an option. I was ignored as a resident. They made changes on my turf without my knowledge.''
 To be sure, some residents have publicly questioned whether Dr. King deserved a street named in his honor. Ben Youmans, a Vietnam veteran who lives on the street, said in letters to local newspapers that he resented Dr. King for protesting the war and for creating ''divisiveness and discontent.'' 
 Still others said that since streets named for Dr. King often run through blighted neighborhoods, the renaming could keep visitors away or hurt property values. Jim Tenney, who owns a saddlery shop downtown, said he had briefly wondered if the renaming would hurt the town economically.
 ''How could I not?'' said Mr. Tenney, who said he liked the idea of honoring Dr. King but that the Council had rushed the process. ''If you say that doesn't occur to you, you're not being honest.'' 
 Mr. Tenney, a member of the Zephyrhills Unity Initiative, a coalition of black and white residents that formed after the renaming to address racial divisions, said racism unquestionably exists here. He said he was shocked when a number of people attending a recent Founders' Day festival declined to sign the coalition's mission statement: ''We want to live in a community that embraces cultural differences and encourages the individuality and abilities of all people to contribute to the fabric of the community.''
 ''Why not sign something so basic?'' Mr. Tenney said. 
 Steve Spina, the city manager, said city officials and protesters were discussing possible compromises: naming a planned water park or a new library for Dr. King, or keeping the new street signs up commemoratively while changing the official name back to Sixth Avenue. 
 Mrs. Dobson, who is 80, said that she still hoped the Council would change its mind and keep the official name as Dr. King's but that she was already looking ahead to other projects.
 In the past, she pushed successfully to get streets paved and streetlights put up in the black neighborhood outside town, which is under the county's jurisdiction. Now, she and other protesters said, they may focus on recruiting new candidates for the Council.
 ''I'm not about to move away,'' she said, ''and give them Zephyrhills.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstration last week in Zephyrhills, Fla., supported Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue. (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)(pg. A18)Map of Florida highlighting Zephyrhills: The City Council voted last year to name Sixth Avenue for Dr. King. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICS (74%); RIOTS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%) Blacks; Demonstrations and Riots; Names, Geographical; City Councils; Elections; Recall (Elections); Politics and Government; Discrimination; Blacks

PERSON: Abby Goodnough; Martin Luther Jr (1929-68) King

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Zephyrhills (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



220 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Killing Off Housing for the Poor

 BODY:
The Bush administration's tax cuts for the well-to-do have taken a heavy toll on the nation's most important social programs for the poor and working class. Prominent casualties include child care assistance for working mothers and federal aid for needy college students. The latest victim appears to be Section 8, the government's main housing program for the poor. The program provides rent subsidies for two million of the country's most vulnerable families and encourages private developers to build affordable housing. 
 Section 8 subsidies go primarily to families that live at or below the poverty level, in households that include children, disabled people or the elderly. These families pay 30 percent of their incomes toward rent and the Section 8 vouchers pay the rest. Some cities give priority to battered women, many of them with children, who have to find a new place to live to escape danger. The need is so great that families often wait years for vouchers, which become available when voucher holders die or become ineligible after getting better jobs.
 Congress rejected an administration proposal that would have placed a financing cap on the program and turned the money over to the states. But the administration's assault continues, through the appropriations process in the House and through administrative rulings at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which has been trying to put the brakes on the voucher program. Last month, the department issued new guidelines to the country's 2,500 public housing agencies declaring that it would no longer pay the full cost of the vouchers but would cap the federal contribution at the level of August 2003, adding an adjustment for inflation.
 This has already caused some private builders and financiers to back away from projects that would have produced desperately needed affordable housing. In addition, public housing officials in many states have made it clear that the new policies will force them to raise rents or evict tenants. Having paid lip service to the goal of ending chronic homelessness, the Bush administration is now threatening to kill off the only program that could possibly achieve it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); EVICTION (89%); TAX LAW (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CITIES (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%) Housing; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Vouchers; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Housing; Public Housing; Renting and Leasing; Evictions

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



221 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; When the Street Name Outlives the Street

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Only Signs Remain to Tell the Story Of New York's Ever-Changing Grid

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
On Columbia Street along the Brooklyn waterfront stands a single sign announcing Irving Street. It is a standard green-and-white banner of the sort marking thousands of intersections in the city, and, like the one a few yards down for Sedgwick Street, there is nothing particularly remarkable about it. Except that, conventionally speaking, these streets no longer exist.
 Crossed off the city's official maps in 1991, the two streets in Carroll Gardens, the scene of frequent factory fires and the home to thriving legal and illegal businesses, are technically no longer there. And, given their physical states, they could hardly be called thoroughfares. Irving is a mere gash in the sidewalk, showing patches of cobblestones and butting up against a chain-link fence that guards a vast expanse of weeds and broken glass. Sedgwick is a dead-end spit roughly six car lengths long, functioning as an egress to a parking lot. The signs are still there, according to a spokesman for the city's Department of Transportation, only because Columbia, which runs perpendicular to Irving and Sedgwick, is still a mapped street. 
 Like disused train stations glinting in the murky light of subway tunnels, or the faded lettering of past businesses on aged brick, these streets have become ghosts, spectral flashes of the lives once lived there. Although the city's grid, hewn as it is from concrete and steel, asphalt and schist, can seem permanent, it is actually fluid, a flux driven by ever-changing traffic patterns, populations and development imperatives. The streets, like people, fatten and thin over time, change course or direction and one day simply vanish. But sometimes, they leave a trace.
 All over town there are remnants of a long-gone city, as well as those of a metropolis imagined but not yet built. There are the streets in Lower Manhattan that run for a block or two and then end in a massive, glittering office tower. There is the overpass in Staten Island that leads to nowhere, the remains of a Robert Moses-era project that was started but never completed. Or the lone street sign proclaiming a part of Myrtle Avenue that once ran east from Jay Street in Brooklyn but has now been subsumed by the Metrotech office complex.
 And then there is Red Hook Lane, a one-block vestige of the borough's colonial past that could edge even closer to extinction today, when the City Planning Commission votes on a Downtown Brooklyn rezoning plan that would officially erase it from the city's map. In the 1760's, Red Hook Lane was the major road running from what was then the center of Brooklyn through Dutch farms to Red Hook. Local historians say that the lane was a key route for the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War and was where riflemen would position themselves to attack the British.
 It also was where, in August 1776, George Washington observed the fighting at Gowanus during the Battle of Long Island, which is sometimes known as the Battle of Brooklyn. Now, though, it is little more than a grimy, garbage-strewn alley standing in the way of future construction.
 ''It is the last remnant of something that was very important in Brooklyn as it was emerging from an agricultural economy,'' said Otis Pratt Pearsall, a lawyer who lives in Brooklyn and who has studied the area's history. ''There weren't very many roads.''
 Referring to Red Hook Lane's current location between Fulton Street and Livingston Street, Mr. Pearsall said, ''At that juncture right there is where there was a church and around that church was a cluster of dwellings and that was Brooklyn.''
 As a member of the Brooklyn Heights Association, a neighborhood group, Mr. Pearsall is trying to make sure that Red Hook Lane is commemorated in some way if it is built over. ''It's not just a street,'' he said. ''It was the crossroads of the world as far as Brooklyn was concerned.''
 Sometimes, city officials said, there are discrepancies between what the official city map shows and what is on the ground. Throughout the city, there are streets that have been added to the map but not yet constructed, or others that have been built in anticipation of unfinished projects. "Once something's been approved, we de-map the street," said Kellie O'Brien, office manager of the Topography Bureau in the Brooklyn borough president's office. "What's physically out there, there's always a possibility that it's different."
 Budget constraints often contribute to variances between what is on paper and what actually exists. "Things sit idle sometimes," said Richard Bearak, deputy director of planning and development in the borough president's office. 
 Take Irving and Sedgwick Streets, which were removed from the city's official map amid plans to widen Columbia Street for use as a truck route, Brooklyn officials said. The streets, which were only officially recognized by the city in the 1890's although they had already been in use, ran west from Columbia past Van Brunt Street to the waterfront, playing host to a shifting array of businesses, including a cotton-packing plant, an ice wharf, a glycerol factory, a lumberyard and a large fruit packing firm called Hills Brothers and Company. During the 19th and 20th centuries, the streets were the scenes of seemingly constant factory fires. In 1896, a fire at the Oil Seed Pressing Company belched smoke throughout the neighborhood, clouding a dance at nearby Irving Hall. The festivities continued, even though the dancers could barely see one another through the thick smoke, until the police shut the party down.
 There also was high drama at the waterfront end of Irving and Sedgwick, where busy piers provided the background for a gritty street life. There were, for example, the nighttime transfers of cash and contraband liquor. And there were the bodies found beaten and riddled with bullets, the victims of gang violence.
 In 1946, an argument among a group of men on the docks left one longshoreman dead. In 1949, a car ran over a stevedore who was interviewing job applicants. On Christmas Eve that year, two armed men arrived 15 minutes too early to steal a $500 payroll from the Bloch Metal Stamping Company on Sedgwick Street. Rather than wait for the money to arrive, they took $100 from a company salesman.
 But life on the two streets was not always so grim. There was a playground on Sedgwick where, during the early 1900's, movies were screened for free every Thursday evening during the summer. There also was a floating hotel moored at the end of Sedgwick where two couples were once married on the same night. 
 Now Irving and Sedgwick and their tales are all but gone, lost to the forward march of urban development. But if the efforts of some neighborhood preservationists are successful, Red Hook Lane, at least, may not be entirely lost to history. Mr. Pearsall and others are pressing the city to require that whatever is built over the street include something to commemorate the once bustling thoroughfare. "If we have a big office building built there, it wouldn't be that hard to run a lobby from north to south and Red Hook Lane could be memorialized in that way," Mr. Pearsall said, adding that it could resurrect some forgotten history. At the moment, he said, "Red Hook Lane is kind of a dead memory."


GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign for Irving Street, which was once a vital artery but that is now only a gash in a Brooklyn sidewalk. Such signs are all that remain of other streets in New York that have largely vanished as the city has developed.
A sign for Red Hook Lane in downtown Brooklyn. A map from the 1760's taken from an old plan shows Red Hook Lane when it was a vital street. During the American Revolution, George Washington observed a battle from the lane. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Sedgwick Street, a once bustling byway, is now a dead-end street. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); HISTORY (76%); ZONING (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); LAND USE PLANNING (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



222 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Gasoline

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 With the growth in popularity of big, heavy S.U.V.'s (Business Day, May 5) and the resulting drop in average fuel economy, the fattening of vehicles is being condemned by America's environmentalists. 
 It's surprising that more attention isn't being paid to another compelling case for discouraging the sale and use of gas-guzzlers: poor fuel economy nationwide increases our need for oil, and our dependence on suppliers in the Middle East, where the future is problematic at best. 
 It would be in our national interest to downsize vehicles, not supersize them.

BRUCE J. BLOOM
Southold, N.Y., May 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); GASOLINE PRICES (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



223 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Voice of Health in a Pornographic World

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 9 

 BODY:
Tired from her shift at a strip club and in need of a heroin fix, Sharon Mitchell was about to turn the key in her front door on a March night in 1996 when a man sprang from the darkness and grabbed her by the throat.
 Pushing her inside, he crushed her larynx, sank his teeth into her cheek, broke her nose and raped her. Choking on her blood, she managed to knock him out with a 10-pound dumbbell. It was then that she recognized him as the man who, obsessed with her pornographic movies, had heckled her earlier at the strip club.
 ''That was the wake-up call from the universe, the moment of clarity,'' Dr. Mitchell said in an interview. ''I didn't want to be standing on the side of a freeway some day, holding a cup.'' 
 She got off drugs, kept her clothes on and went back to school for a doctorate in human sexuality. Then, 22 months after the attack, she founded the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation, which every month tests about 1,200 sex-video performers for sexually transmitted diseases.
 In recent weeks, as the multibillion-dollar sex-film industry here has been brought to a standstill by an outbreak of H.I.V., Dr. Mitchell, 46, has become the most prominent figure in the unfolding story. Scores of actors have flocked to her clinic to be tested, at her insistence.
 ''This whole thing has knocked 10 pounds off me,'' Dr. Mitchell said in her tiny office, as she unwrapped a chocolate bar and simultaneously fielded telephone calls, e-mail messages, and questions from a Swiss reporter and four staff members.
 As of Sunday, five sex-film actors here have been told they have the virus that causes AIDS.
 The H.I.V. outbreak, the first in the industry in Los Angeles in six years, was traced to an actor who apparently contracted the virus while working on a film in Brazil in early March and who passed it on to at least three actresses here. The fifth case apparently originated in New York and is unconnected, Dr. Mitchell said.
 When the outbreak was first made public, Dr. Mitchell and her organization called for an immediate halt to filming. Production is not expected to resume until at least June 8. Her clinic was able to trace the sexual contacts between the two actors who initially tested positive and almost 60 other performers. She said all will be tested for H.I.V. at least three times over two months. Potentially, the number of actors exposed could be large, given that they sometimes perform three or four scenes a day, often with multiple partners.
 ''Everyone's been contained,'' Dr. Mitchell said. ''We're not looking at a lot of people out there working and spreading disease. If we had not put everyone on quarantine so early, this would really have spread.''
 An adopted only child raised as a Roman Catholic in the farm country of Monmouth County, N.J., Dr. Mitchell was an Off Broadway actress and dancer -- she toured with the Martha Graham company -- before starring in hard-core movies in the mid-1970's. It was, she acknowledged, a radical, liberating rupture from her upbringing.
 ''I was quite proud,'' she said of the moment she first saw herself 16 feet high on a screen.
 ''The worst thing you could get in those days was crabs or herpes, and that was few and far between,'' said Dr. Mitchell, who was briefly married at 17.
 Drugs were a different matter. Dr. Mitchell delved into heroin, she said, an addiction that lasted nearly two decades. ''People I worked with knew I was an addict,'' she said. ''I never felt it necessary to hide it.''
 Working in the sex industry was exhausting, she said, and heroin helped her cope. ''The trauma on the body is too much and the whole thing created personal problems, relationship problems,'' she said. ''It was hard to say, 'Honey, I'm going to have sex with a girl, two guys and six rhesus monkeys and what do you want for dinner?' ''
 Dr. Mitchell -- who legally changed her last name in 1975 in homage to Martha Mitchell, the outspoken wife of Attorney General John N. Mitchell in the Nixon administration -- made some 1,000 sex movies over 20 years, including 38 that she directed.
 She fondly recalled starring roles in ''Captain Lust and the Pirate Women'' and ''Sexcapades,'' among others. She also had bit parts in mainstream films like ''Tootsie'' and ''The Deer Hunter,'' and played a nurse on the soap opera ''The Edge of Night.''
 By all accounts, Dr. Mitchell's transformation from sex-film star to white-coated doctor could not be more profound. On her office door, a sign says, ''Well-behaved women rarely make history.''
 Though many sex-film performers were casual, at best, about getting checked for H.I.V. years ago, the situation seems markedly improved under the monthly checkups instituted by Dr. Mitchell, who has recorded just 11 H.I.V. infections in the industry between the clinic's founding in January 1998 and the outbreak last month. By contrast, about 40,000 new cases of H.I.V. are reported annually in the United States, she said. 
 Health officials appear to have left Dr. Mitchell largely to her own devices, though the latest outbreak is giving them reason to reconsider.
 Jonathan E. Fielding, director of public health for Los Angeles County, said his office was investigating whether the clinic was following proper procedures and whether the virus had spread from workers in the industry to people outside it.
 ''Most of the oversight is by the industry itself,'' said Paul Koretz, a California Assemblyman whose district includes parts of the San Fernando Valley area, where the industry is based. 
 ''But it's not foolproof,'' Mr. Koretz added, referring to the clinic's approach.
 The industry employs about 6,000 people and churns out about 4,000 videos a year. Economists here estimate that it brings in as much as $9 billion a year.
 As the industry watchdog of well-being, Dr. Mitchell also acts as something of a detective, investigating the origin of each infection and badgering performers who were exposed to come in for testing. Since the outbreak, dozens of names -- the performers almost invariably use stage names -- have been posted on the clinic's Web site, along with their date of exposure and whether they have tested positive. 
 Not everyone cooperates. One of 12 actresses who had sex with the first performer to test positive in the outbreak ignored requests to be tested, Dr. Mitchell said. Last week, Dr. Mitchell and her assistants tracked the actress down in Las Vegas. 
 Dr. Mitchell offered her $500 in cash to be tested and the actress accepted. ''Whatever works, right?'' Dr. Mitchell said.
 She was also looking into rumors that some performers on the quarantine list had gone back to work before learning whether they had been cleared.
 ''This is a very difficult population to deal with,'' Dr. Mitchell said. ''I've had to battle more within the industry than without.''
 In the hot afternoon, actresses, most in platform sandals, tank tops and miniskirts, strolled into the clinic's storefront waiting room on Ventura Boulevard. Tattoos and pierced noses and navels abounded. One girl, sullenly filling out a form before her H.I.V. test, wore a T-shirt that said, ''Wasn't picked for cheerleading.''
 Another actress, Monica Bailey, 20, did not seem to mind the $110 cost of an H.I.V test.
 ''It's way worth it,'' Ms. Bailey said. ''I can go to a regular doctor and get it done, but it's nice to come here and it'll be ready in two days. I encourage my friends to come here. They'll set you straight.''
 During the production hiatus, Ms. Bailey said, she has been working at the Frisky Kitty as a stripper and doing a little filming, but acting opposite women only, not men.
 ''Everything was going so well,'' she said, ''that something like this was bound to happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Sharon Mitchell talking with Monica Bailey, an actress in sex videos who was getting her monthly H.I.V. test. Dr. Mitchell started the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation after a career in the industry. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); HEROIN (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); FACIAL INJURIES (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); FILM (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%); VIRUSES (72%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (71%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Pornography and Obscenity; Finances; Tests and Testing; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation

PERSON: Nick Madigan; Sharon (Dr) Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (85%) Los Angeles (Calif); Brazil

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



224 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Britain vs. the Eurocrats

BYLINE: By Antony Beevor. 
Antony Beevor is the author, most recently, of ''The Fall of Berlin 1945.''

 BODY:
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain is facing the greatest crisis of his political career -- greater than even that of the Iraq war. Mr. Blair, having steadfastly refused a referendum on whether the nation will accept the new European Constitution, has now felt forced to turn around and agree to a popular vote. Polls show that nearly 70 percent of Britons are skeptical of his cherished dream of Britain ''at the heart of Europe.'' They rightly fear that Britain is more likely to find itself swallowed into the belly of a European whale, and a beached one at that. 
 The draft version of the European Constitution aims to concentrate far more power in Brussels, the capital of the European Union. It proposes an elected president who would serve for a term of at least a two and a half years. It intends to harmonize legal systems, with standard sentences and Europe-wide rules for basic legal procedures. The Constitution also calls for a Charter of Fundamental Rights covering everything from the workplace to the environment to euthanasia. 
 The new Constitution also calls for a European foreign minister to direct a joint European foreign policy, and it wants to establish a common defense policy. The is a direct challenge to the primacy of NATO. It reflects the mainly French desire to re-create Europe as a counterbalancing force to the United States, as opposed to the role of traditional ally. 
 The decision over the Constitution is probably the most important Britain has faced since World War II. I will vote against it for several reasons. Most important, a genuinely democratic constitution, like that of the United States, defines the limits of power of the state over the individual. Yet the draft European Constitution is almost entirely about amassing power for a superstate. It is antidemocratic, dangerous and throughly out of date. 
 It is antidemocratic because the European Union bureaucracy in Brussels and the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, have consistently proved to be out of touch with ordinary people. It is dangerous because the resulting frustrations produce voter rage, which plays into the hand of right-wing extremists. 
 For example, in Holland, Pym Fortuyn, the populist leader who was assassinated in 2002, used voter anger at the union to upset the political apple cart in a country regarded as a model for European consensus. Likewise, France's far-right National Front, headed by Jean-Marie Le Pen, pushed the Socialists (who controlled the government under Prime Minister Lionel Jospin) into a humiliating third place in the 2002 presidential election. At the time, a British reporter asked one of Mr. Jospin's ministers what had gone wrong, and her answer was that it was the fault of the voters for ''not listening'' to what the government said. Apparently, the idea never entered her head that many of those who had voted for Mr. Le Pen did so as a protest against a political elite that refused to listen. 
 In the larger sense, the European Union sees itself as a sort of social-engineer-in-chief. But social engineering, like war, has a long history of producing results very different from those expected.
 It is all too easy to assume that, in the modern world, national identities are redundant. But that is premature. The European Union, however much it invests in flags and anthems and propaganda, will find it very hard to create a sense of solidarity that will persuade the citizens of the richer countries to once again subsidize the poorer ones.
 Lastly, the concept of a centralized European power is out of date. Since the Russian Revolution of 1917, and again since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the geopolitical trend in Europe has been against centralized federations. Moreover, no multinational federation has ever worked well without a single dominant language. English, the language preferred by most of the new members, is the only possible candidate -- but French politicians, and to a lesser extent the Germans, cannot stomach such an idea. 
 And above all, a European superstate is out of date at a time when globalization demands flexibility. No wonder German and French industries are terrified of their inability to compete with the Asian economies. Perhaps the most depressing characteristic of the Brussels Mentality is its urge to meddle. It is a prime example of what I call the first law of bureau-dynamics. The desire to regulate becomes self-perpetuating, because bureaucrats who are not seeking to introduce further controls are clearly not doing their job. 
 The Brussels bureaucracy will certainly not be idle in the coming months. In addition to ''harmonizing'' the laws for the existing 15 members, they have to tackle those of the 10 new nations that joined this month. It is a stupendous task. For the European Union to try to integrate in depth and in breadth at the same time is almost certainly doomed. Even Jacques Delors, a former president of the European Commission and the leading architect of the euro, recently told The Economist that the chances of success for the Constitution were no more than 50 percent. It is a gamble in which I -- and, I hope, the majority of my fellow Britons -- do not wish to take part. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); ASSASSINATION (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%) Constitutions; Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; Fringe Groups and Movements; Elections

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%) European Union; European Parliament 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (50%) Antony Beevor

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%) Europe; Great Britain; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



225 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Redstone Heir Steps Deeper Into Viacom Territory

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, Shari Redstone, the daughter of entertainment mogul Sumner M. Redstone, bought an elegant apartment that looks out over Central Park on Manhattan's Upper East Side. 
 The purchase may seem unremarkable, but it signals a step by Ms. Redstone, 50, toward taking a larger role at Viacom Inc., the giant diversified media company that her father controls. 
 Until now Ms. Redstone has focused most of her attention on running National Amusements, her family's privately held movie theater chain based in Boston. But she says that will change next fall, when she plans to start spending a third of her time at Viacom, which owns a wealth of top-brand media assets, including Blockbuster Video, CBS, Infinity Radio, MTV, Nickelodeon and Paramount Pictures. 
 ''It was always my intention that when the kids were grown, I would spend more time and play a more significant role at Viacom,'' Ms. Redstone said in a recent interview. ''Next year is the year I intend to start attending meetings more regularly.'' 
 Ms. Redstone will not have a formal title, but her presence could create tensions at Viacom, where it is widely known that she and the president, Mel Karmazin, do not get along well. After Mr. Karmazin and Mr. Redstone merged CBS and Viacom in 1999, Mr. Karmazin insisted that the Redstone children -- Shari and her brother, Brent, who was then on the Viacom board -- stop attending some divisional meetings. Whether or not that was the right decision, it did little to help the relationship between the two. Mr. Karmazin did not return calls seeking comment. Ms. Redstone characterized their relationship as civil, adding, ''We get along well.''
 In an interview, Mr. Redstone, the chairman and chief executive of Viacom, dismissed any problems between his daughter and Mr. Karmazin, arguing that there will be no conflicts because his daughter will not have an operating role. 
 ''She is doing something extremely important,'' he said. ''She is building relationships and building knowledge. And she is assisting Viacom.'' 
 She is moving to Viacom as the company's lagging performance is again raising questions about Mr. Karmazin's leadership. Over all, Viacom's stock is down 13.7 percent this year, far more than either a 7.6 percent decline for Time Warner or a 3.7 percent decline at the Walt Disney Company. Meanwhile, News Corporation stock has risen 1.4 percent in 2004.
 Dennis Leibowitz, who leads Act II Partners, a media hedge fund, said that Mr. Karmazin's star had dimmed a bit because investors were worried that the radio unit, with which he is most closely identified, had not done well recently. Even so, ''Mel is well respected, and his departure would raise questions again about Mr. Redstone's ability to keep strong managers,'' Mr. Leibowitz said. 
 Whatever happens with Mr. Karmazin, Mr. Redstone, who is 80, has dynastic goals that could leave his daughter a very powerful player at the table: she will one day control Viacom shares that have a current value of $7.5 billion and 71 percent of the shareholders' vote.
 He said that, though he ''intends to have a special line from heaven for control of Viacom, the likelihood is that Shari will control it,'' through her control of the trust that owns National Amusements, which in turn owns Mr. Redstone's Viacom stock. But father and daughter agree that she will not have an operating role at Viacom.
 Although Mr. Redstone's private life changed last year when he married Paula Fortunato, a 40-year-old former schoolteacher, his estate plan did not. ''My trust is set up so that it is extremely likely -- I don't want to say things are certain -- that she will one day control the National stock,'' he said, referring to his daughter. ''If she controls National, she would control Viacom.'' That should reassure investors who might worry that the large block of stock might one day be sold off into the market by heirs. As to her being named chairwoman, Mr. Redstone said, ''No decision has been made and, in any case, nothing would happen until after I am gone.'' 
 Mr. Redstone has added to his daughter's responsibilities lately. Last week he asked that she join the board of Midway Games, a Chicago-based video game company, of which he already owns about 50 percent.
 But Ms. Redstone's more interesting role comes from her conversations with her father and his growing confidence in her. She said that she and her father did not always agree, and they had their share of fights. But ''she is one of the few people who can talk back to him,'' said someone who has known the family for years.
 For example, they have discussed problems at Paramount Pictures, where the studio had a weak run, including ''Timeline'' and ''Beyond Borders,'' with disappointing financial performance. Last year at the entertainment unit, which includes Paramount, Simon & Schuster, and the theme park and movie theater units, operating income fell 24 percent to $271.4 million. Mr. Redstone recently pledged that Viacom would give Paramount the money it needed to spend on films so that Paramount could compete more aggressively for top stars, scripts and directors. Mr. Redstone hardly concedes that he needed advice. ''I saw the issues and she saw the issues,'' he said. ''I would like to think that, much as I love her and respect her, I have the capacity to make decisions myself. But she saw them very much the same way as I did.'' 
 Ms. Redstone has her own list of credentials. She received a bachelor's degree from Tufts University in 1975 and went on to get a degree in law and tax law from Boston University, then worked briefly as a defense lawyer at Salon Silver Heffernan & Shub. She married in 1980 and chose to stay home and rear her three children. After a divorce in 1993, she wanted to return to work, and Mr. Redstone encouraged her to join National Amusements. Evaluating her performance is difficult because National Amusements, which has annual revenues of about $700 million, does not provide financial data. Some industry executives say she has not made a major contribution at the 1,400-screen chain, where some of her father's old associates are still in high positions. Others say she is doing an impressive job.
 Certainly National never took part in the ill-advised expansion craze that led other circuits, including Regal Cinemas, into bankruptcy court. Instead, Ms. Redstone hewed to her father's strategy of focusing National's theaters in regional markets. 
 ''You have more leverage with the studios when you dominate a regional market,'' she said. ''If a chain has most of the theaters in a given market, it is far more important to the movie companies. Circuits that have regional clusters don't find themselves bidding against each other for films.'' 
 ''She was smart enough to understand the value of keeping the business regional, but she also understands taking risks intelligently and being open to new ideas.'' said Bruce C. Greenwald, professor of economics at Columbia Business School. 
 Under Ms. Redstone, National was among the first to open several upscale theaters, where the average ticket price is $11 and customers can sit in luxurious seats, have cocktails at the bar and use a concierge desk to make dinner reservations.
 Nikki Rocco, the president of Universal Distribution, said that the Bridge, National's upscale theater in Los Angeles, is a big success and that Universal routinely opens films there. People who say Mr. Redstone is still running National Amusements are wrong, she said. ''I don't deal with Sumner,'' Ms. Rocco said. ''Now it is her.'' 
 Ms. Redstone views her efforts at National as critical to establishing her identity. ''For me it was important to break out on my own and have something that was not my father's territory,'' she said. ''I needed to find a way to differentiate myself from him.'' 
 As for Mr. Redstone, he was impressed by his daughter's success. 
 ''She is obsessive,'' he said. ''She is worse than I am. It is unreal. If she were not doing the right job, she would not be there. She was not there a year before I could see that she was a hotshot.''
 The younger Redstone has already had dealings with Viacom through National Amusements projects. National built a stage in its Moscow theater where MTV entertainers could perform live to promote the network. It has done tie-ins at various theaters that promote CBS sports events. And when a National theater did a live broadcast of the Red Sox-Yankees game, it was promoted on a local Infinity station. 
 For now, Shari Redstone's move to New York and intent to involve herself more deeply at Viacom fufills her father's wish that she prepare to succeed him as Viacom's largest shareholder. But the fact that she is not slated for operating responsibility leaves the question of management succession up in the air. 
 Mr. Redstone has had a prickly relationship with Mr. Karmazin over the years. Right now, however, Mr. Redstone says that it is at an ''all-time high,'' adding, ''He is extremely friendly and very deferential.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shari Redstone, president of National Amusements, will spend time at Viacom but have no operating role. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (88%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); CHILDREN (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); THEATER (57%); MOVIE THEATERS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (93%); BB LIQUIDATING INC (83%); NEWS CORP (62%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Viacom Inc; National Amusements; Viacom Inc

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%); DIS (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (83%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (93%) Shari Redstone; Geraldine Fabrikant; Sumner M Redstone; Mel Karmazin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004



226 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Citigroup Agrees to Pay Investors in WorldCom
Hoping to close the books on its role as lead banker to WorldCom, Citigroup agreed to pay $2.65 billion to investors who bought stock and bonds in the company before it sought bankruptcy protection two years ago.
 The payment is the largest ever by a bank, brokerage firm or auditor to settle a fraud case brought by investors who bought securities issued by another corporation that was advised by the one of those firms. [Page A1.]

Challenges for McDonald's Chief
Once Charles H. Bell, left, the new chief executive of McDonald's, returns to work after surgery for cancer, he will face considerable hurdles. In his native Australia, where he began his career at the company as a teenager, he is regarded as a corporate star. But on McDonald's home turf in the United States, he is still a relative unknown. [C2.]

Deutsche Bank to Discuss Bid
Top executives of Deutsche Bank will convene today to discuss whether to bid for Postbank, Germany's huge postal banking system, according to executives who have been briefed on the talks. [C2.]

Opening Remarks in Cendant Trial
Lawyers and prosecutors presented contrasting views of two former executives of the Cendant Corporation who are on trial. [C12.]

A former Adelphia executive testified that Timothy Rigas could not control lies that his father, company founder John J. Rigas, made about his pay and stock holdings. [C12.]

A former director of Tyco International, testifying in the trial of Mark A. Belnick, the company's former general counsel, said he did not learn of a $17 million bonus paid to Mr. Belnick in 2000 until two years later. [C12.]

Higher Tax Shelter Fines Sought
A Democratic Senator plans to offer an amendment that would triple the White House's proposed penalty for promoters of phony tax shelters. [C2.]

Federal Reserve Fines UBS
The Federal Reserve fined UBS $100 million, accusing it of violating United States trade sanctions by sending dollars to Cuba, Iran, Libya and Yugoslavia. [C17.]

Two Cable Operators Post Losses
Charter Communications and Cablevision Systems reported first-quarter losses as gains in digital television and Internet subscribers were offset by some customers who defected to satellite TV. [C7.]

New Regulations to Cut Emissions
The Bush administration announced new regulations that will significantly reduce emissions from tractors, bulldozers, locomotives, barges and other nonroad vehicles. [A16.]

Delta Issues Warning on Finances
Delta Air Lines, battling with its pilots' union over its effort to cut labor costs, said that it might have to seek bankruptcy protection unless it can obtain contract concessions. The disclosure, which sent Delta's stock tumbling, came three days after a similar warning by US Airways. [C13.]

China Acts Further to Curb Inflation
China took four more steps to slow inflation, including setting limited price controls in provinces where the cost of living is rising fastest. [World Business, Section W.]

Marks & Spencer Chairman to Leave
Marks & Spencer, Britain's biggest clothing retailer, announced that its chairman would quit. [World Business, Section W.]

Positive Outlook for Travel industry
At the conference of the World Travel and Tourism Council, experts said a recovery in travel should accelerate this year barring any new terrorist attacks or unexpected outbreaks of disease. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C11.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,900.02 down 127.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,896.07 down 21.8910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.80% up 0.02The euro -- $1.1867 down 0.0028The dollar -- 113.72 yen up 1.57Graph tracks Delta Air Lines share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LAWYERS (76%); ACCOUNTING (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (63%); AIRLINES (63%); EMISSIONS (60%); COST OF LIVING (60%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (67%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); CAR (NASDAQ) (67%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (52%); DAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (72%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



227 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: CITIGROUP AGREES TO A SETTLEMENT OVER WORLDCOM

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Hoping to close the books on its role as lead banker to WorldCom, Citigroup yesterday agreed to pay $2.65 billion to investors who bought stock and bonds in the telecommunications giant before its bankruptcy filing two years ago. 
 The payment is the largest ever by a bank, brokerage firm or auditor to settle a fraud case brought by investors who bought securities issued by a corporation that was advised by one of those firms. It is the second-largest amount ever paid to settle a securities class action, trailing the Cendant Corporation's payment of $2.85 billion in 2000.
 The Citigroup settlement, which is subject to approval by the Federal District Court in New York, came just hours before an appellate court was to hear arguments addressing, among other things, the conflicts between the firm's stock analysis and the investment banking fees generated by WorldCom. The Securities and Exchange Commission had recently filed a friend of the court brief supporting the claims of investors. 
 The agreement was announced by Charles O. Prince, chief executive of Citigroup, and Alan G. Hevesi, comptroller of New York State and trustee of the state's Common Retirement fund, the lead plaintiff in the securities fraud case against WorldCom. Litigation continues against the other defendants: former officers and directors of WorldCom, other banks and brokerage firms that sold WorldCom securities and Arthur Andersen, WorldCom's auditor at the time. 
 Tens of billions of dollars in investor wealth vanished when WorldCom collapsed in July 2002, and yesterday's settlement is the first indication of how much money may yet be paid by the people and firms that helped the company sell its securities to investors. In 1999, when the stock was at its peak, WorldCom had a market value of more than $150 billion.
 ''With this settlement, we have gained an extraordinary recovery for WorldCom bondholders and stockholders,'' Mr. Hevesi said. ''This settlement, while historic, is only the first step. We will continue to pursue our claims against the others who bear responsibility for the debacle at WorldCom. The investing public depends on the gatekeepers, and the gatekeepers have to be diligent in making sure investors get accurate and truthful information. They should understand that this settlement conveys a message that reinforces their obligation.'' 
 The New York State retirement fund lost $300 million in its WorldCom investments.
 As is typical in such settlements, Citigroup denied that it violated any laws and said it agreed to the arrangement to eliminate the uncertainties, burden and expense of litigation. ''We are taking a leadership position in bringing to a close this difficult era in the history of our industry and our company,'' Mr. Prince said in a statement.
 The bank also said that it would take a charge in the second quarter of $4.95 billion to reflect the settlement and an addition to its reserves to cover exposure to Enron and other pending litigation. The charge is equal to roughly three months' worth of its earnings, the company said. 
 Yesterday's settlement does not cover securities cases being brought by investors who declined to participate in the class action. Those matters will be handled case by case, and Citigroup said yesterday that it would mount vigorous defenses. Citigroup has set aside $6.7 billion in all to cover its litigation exposure. 
 ''This is really the first indication of how much is going to be pinned on the investment banks in the WorldCom case, and WorldCom is not a completely unique situation,'' said Bruce T. Carton, executive director of Institutional Shareholder Service's securities class-action services. ''This has to be a wake-up call across the board. You're talking about $2.65 billion -- that's going to wake anybody up.'' 
 Home to Jack B. Grubman, Wall Street's most powerful telecommunications analyst, as well as the top investment banking department dedicated to that industry, Citigroup was WorldCom's chief banker and supporter. According to court documents, the bank generated more than $100 million in revenue and fees from its relationship with WorldCom from 1996 through 2002. Mr. Grubman earned $20 million a year at the Salomon unit of Citigroup during the telecommunications boom when Sanford I. Weill was chief executive. 
 News of the settlement sent shares of Citigroup down almost 3 percent yesterday. Stocks of other major banks that sold WorldCom securities to investors -- including J.P. Morgan Chase and Bank of America -- also fell amid broad declines in the market.
 Citigroup's settlement was announced hours before its lawyers and those representing the New York State retirement fund were scheduled to meet in an appeals court for a hearing on whether the district court erred in allowing the claims against Salomon Smith Barney and Mr. Grubman, the former analyst, to go forward as a securities class-action suit. Among the matters that would probably have come up at the hearing were new materials discovered by the plaintiff relating to Mr. Grubman's analysis of WorldCom and the acknowledgment by high-level Citigroup officials of the conflicts inherent in providing accurate research to investors and generating rich investment banking revenue for the firm. 
 For example, in an April 12, 2004, brief submitted to the appeals court, lawyers for Mr. Hevesi noted that they had amassed ''compelling evidence'' demonstrating that Mr. Grubman had manipulated the underlying financial analyses he used to value WorldCom stock to justify his buy rating on it.
 The brief also noted that the ''most senior officers of Salomon'' acknowledged privately that its investment bankers pressured its analysts to avoid negative ratings and that ''providing accurate stock ratings conflicted with Salomon's paramount goals of securing investment banking business.'' Citigroup had never produced the materials supporting these claims to Richard Thornburgh, the examiner appointed by the bankruptcy court to investigate the WorldCom fraud, the brief stated. 
 By far the largest fees paid to Citigroup by WorldCom -- $32.5 million -- were for investment banking advice related to the company's 1997 acquisition of MCI. But Citigroup also made money on three bond offerings to investors from 1998 through 2001. For example, Citigroup earned $20.3 million on the last bond issue by WorldCom the year before it filed for bankruptcy, and the bank made almost $16 million on a debt issue in 1998. 
 WorldCom, now known as MCI, emerged from bankruptcy last month. The company said yesterday that it posted a loss of $388 million in the first quarter and was laying off 7,500 workers. 
 Other defendants in the WorldCom litigation have 45 days to agree to settlements on the terms agreed to by Citigroup. Mr. Hevesi's lawyers calculated that if the other banks accepted these terms, the WorldCom investors in the class would receive another $2.8 billion. If J.P. Morgan Chase, another big seller of WorldCom securities, agreed to the terms of the settlement, it would pay more than $1.3 billion, the lawyers estimated.
 Internal documents produced in the litigation by major banks that sold WorldCom bonds show that officials of three of those banks -- J.P. Morgan Chase, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank -- expressed misgivings privately about WorldCom's financial soundness just months before they helped the company sell $12 billion in debt.
 For example, internal documents showed that credit analysts on the lending side of those banks had privately downgraded the company. But the doubts expressed privately by the banks' credit analysts were not mentioned in the offering statement that was submitted to investors who bought the bonds. 
 ''From our perspective, the case on the three remaining underwriters is as strong, if not stronger than the case we settled today with Citigroup,'' said John P. Coffey, a lawyer at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann in New York and chief litigator for the New York State comptroller. 
 Officials at J.P. Morgan and Deutsche Bank declined to comment. A Bank of America spokeswoman said in a statement: ''Bank of America has not yet reviewed the terms of Citigroup's settlement, but it has not caused us to increase our view of potential liability. Citigroup played a considerably larger role in the issuance of securities than did Bank of America.''
 Indeed, Citigroup was the largest underwriter of securities for companies that later went bankrupt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. In addition to WorldCom and Enron, the bank helped sell securities for Adelphia and Parmalat and has earned at least $1.28 billion in fees from such companies since 2000.
 The next largest class-action settlement paid by an adviser was the $335 million paid to Cendant investors by Ernst & Young, the company's auditor.
 Under the terms of the WorldCom settlement, Citigroup will pay $1.46 billion to settle claims of investors who bought WorldCom bonds issued in May 2000 and May 2001. The remaining $1.19 billion will go to investors who bought WorldCom stock and its other publicly traded securities. It is unclear how much members of the class will receive after legal fees.
 The Alabama Retirement Systems, which lost an estimated $165 million on its investments in WorldCom stock and bonds, is not participating in the class-action settlement announced yesterday. J. Michael Rediker, a lawyer at Haskell Slaughter Young & Rediker in Birmingham, represents the retirement system and explained why his client is continuing to litigate its case. 
 ''The class objectives are different from an individual state retirement system's objectives, and we don't see that there is a pattern established to the resolution of a state's individual claim,'' he said. ''The circumstances of the State of Alabama's case are such that we feel a substantial recovery should be sought.'' 
 In an interview after the settlement was announced, Mr. Hevesi said its significance went beyond that of recompense to investors. ''This is about strengthening the character of our economy and our financial industry, which is the home-based industry of New York,'' he said. ''Having companies recognize that their obligation is to support the system by appropriate behavior is critically important.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanford I. Weill, above, was chief executive of Citigroup when Jack B. Grubman was a powerful Wall Street telecommunications analyst. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Small Rewards, Big Settlement''The fees Citigroup earned -- just over $100 million since 1996 -- for advising WorldCom on financial matters, including bond and stock offerings and mergers, is dwarfed by the bank's agreement to pay $2.65 billion.Chart shows Citigroup's revenue from Worldcom, principal deals, in millions.LARGEST SECURITES FRAUD CLASS-ACTION SETTLEMENTSCendant -- $2.85 billionCitigroup (as WorldCom's banker) -- 2.65Nasdaq market makers' price fixing -- 1.03Brokerage firms' tainted research -- 1.00Lucent Technologies -- 0.52(Sources by Court documents
 ISS Securities Class Action Services)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BONDS (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); ETHICS (68%) Suits and Litigation; Bankruptcies; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Ethics

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Worldcom Inc; Citigroup Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; Andersen, Arthur, & Co; Worldcom Inc; Worldcom Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CAR (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (71%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (71%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (71%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (71%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (58%) Gretchen Morgenson; Charles O Prince; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



228 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Negligent Upstate Couple Is Told Not to Procreate

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
Citing a pattern of negligence and drug abuse that has left a couple unable to care for their children, a judge in upstate New York last week barred the couple from procreating until they prove they can take care of their offspring.
 The ruling, by Judge Marilyn L. O'Connor of Monroe County Family Court, came after the mother's four children were placed in foster care and after three of them tested positive for cocaine as newborns. 
 ''The generosity and kindness of society have been abused enough,'' Judge O'Connor wrote in a seven-page opinion. ''The respondents' existing children have been neglected enough, and this court will do what it can in this particular case to end this pattern of behavior.'' 
 Advocates for women's reproductive rights were quick to denounce the decision, which they said was the first of its kind in New York. 
 According to court documents, the mother had her first baby in 1998. Suffering from a cocaine addiction and struggling to find work and shelter, she had her child placed in foster care.
 Since then, she has given birth to three more children. Each newborn tested positive for cocaine and was promptly taken from the mother, whose pattern of neglect was monitored by the Monroe County Department of Human and Health Services.
 When her last child was born on March 23, 2003, the baby was taken away after only seven days.
 ''It is painfully obvious that a parent who has already lost to foster care all four of her children born over a six-year period, with the last one having been taken from her even before she could leave the hospital, should not get pregnant again soon, if ever,'' Judge O'Connor wrote. ''This is a practical, social, economic and moral reality.''
 Saying that the last child ''was born to a 'no-parent family,''' the judge added that the baby was ''for all practical purposes motherless and fatherless.''
 ''This is not acceptable,'' she said.
 So Judge O'Connor ruled that the mother could not become pregnant again until she proved that she could care for the children she already had. The court also decided that the baby's father could not have any more children until he also proved himself ready by the same standard -- regaining custody and caring for the children. The court did not release the full names of the mother and father.
 Legal experts said that two other states had upheld similar rulings involving so-called deadbeat dads.
 In Wisconsin, after David Oakley failed to pay child support for the nine children he fathered with four women, he was ordered to stop fathering children until he was able to support his offspring.
 The Wisconsin Supreme Court upheld the decision in 2001, voting 4 to 3 along gender lines. The four male justices said the condition was a reasonable way to deal with the situation, while the female justices found the decision an unconstitutional intrusion on a basic right to procreate.
 In another case, the Ohio Supreme Court said that it was appropriate for a man, as part of the terms of his probation for not supporting his children, to be ordered to take all reasonable measures to avoid fathering a child.
 However, there are also a number of cases in which attempts by judges to interfere with a person's ability to procreate have been found unconstitutional. The California courts, for instance, decided that a woman could not be forced to wear a Norplant device, which works as a long-term contraceptive.
 Judge O'Connor made a point of noting that ''the court is not directing what steps the mother should take in order to not get pregnant, or what steps the father should take in order to not get any woman pregnant.'' 
 Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said her organization might challenge the ruling, although the couple has not yet got in touch the group.
 In this case, the mother waived her right to a lawyer during the court proceedings and neither parent showed up for the hearing.
 Ms. Lieberman said the lack of representation was troubling.
 ''This is a decision that puts the court in the position of monitoring the sex life of adults and is inconsistent with fundamental principles of privacy and autonomy,'' she said.
 In her decision, Judge O'Connor said that according to her reading of United States Supreme Court decisions, the court had found that it was not the right to conceive a child that in itself was essential but rather the right to ''conceive and raise'' a child.
 ''Our society has reached a breaking point with respect to raising neglected children,'' the judge wrote. 
 The foster care budget for Monroe County in 2001 was $32 million, which Judge O'Connor called ''a shockingly large number.''
 Lynn M. Paltrow, the executive director of National Advocates for Pregnant Women, which is based in New York, said that the judge's focus on costs missed the point. She said it would be better to try to prevent situations like this from arising by ''increased access to drug treatment programs, mental health services and affordable housing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A couple ordered not to have more children stayed for a time at the House of Mercy, a shelter in Rochester. (Photo by Max Schulte for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COCAINE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); DRUG TESTING (89%); FOSTER CARE (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FAMILY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); WOMEN (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); APPEALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



229 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: State Cancels Deal to Develop Erie Canal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 10 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration has quietly moved to terminate a contract it awarded that gave a real estate developer the exclusive rights to build along the shoreline of the Erie Canal for only $30,000, officials said Monday. 
 The deal became a political embarrassment for the administration last year after Democrats questioned why such potentially lucrative development rights were being sold for so little money after a little-publicized bidding process yielded only one bidder. After the office of State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi rescinded its earlier approval of the contract last fall, Gov. George E. Pataki asked the state attorney general and inspector general to investigate the contract. 
 Both investigations are continuing, officials said.
 After defending the contract for months, officials at the Canal Corporation, a subsidiary of the New York State Thruway Authority that awarded the contract three years ago, decided to end it. On Friday they faxed a letter to the winning bidder, Richard A. Hutchens, telling him the deal was off as of May 20.
 In the letter, the Canal Corporation said it was terminating the contract not because of any questions about how it was awarded, but because it had determined that Mr. Hutchens's company ''has not satisfied material provisions'' of the agreement. It faulted Mr. Hutchens for improperly bringing another developer into the project and for failing to certify a list of sites suitable for development.
 Thomas A. Bystryk, the general manager of Mr. Hutchens's firm, said in an interview Monday that he believed the contract allowed a 30-day period to remedy any problems. 
 He noted that none of the investigations had found any wrongdoing by the company and said he was consulting lawyers over a course of action. ''If they do this, it's another kick in the teeth for the state,'' he said. ''There's a potential for a great deal of development and they want to stymie it. Think of it. Who will want to do business in the state if they do this?''
 Asked if he thought that the administration was using technicalities to kill the contract and end a political embarrassment, Mr. Bystryk said, ''That is our assumption.'' 
 Michael R. Fleischer, the executive director of the Canal Corporation and the Thruway Authority -- which are both controlled by the same three-member board appointed by the governor -- said Monday that he believed the problems were beyond remedy.
 The deal has helped turn the Erie Canal from a symbol of one of the most successful economic development programs in the state's history to what critics call a symbol of all that is wrong with the state's current system of using public authorities and corporations to do government work with little of the oversight customary for state agencies.
 ''The Pataki administration has botched, on both an economic and an ethical basis, this entire process,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who brought details of the deal to light during legislative hearings that he held. ''It has become the poster child for what is wrong with state authorities.'' 
 The case highlights the need for a fundamental overhaul of the state's public authorities, he said on Monday. 
 Mr. Hutchens won the bid after the Canal Corporation announced that it was offering the development rights in a small advertisement on Page 62 of an obscure, subscription-only publication called The New York State Contract Reporter. The solicitation for bids was sandwiched between advertisements looking for a firm to provide mops to the State Power Authority and another looking for a company to maintain hiking trails.
 It was later learned that Mr. Hutchens had been alerted to the ad by the Canal Corporation, and that he had been in talks with the corporation long before bids were solicited. 
 The contract gave Mr. Hutchens the right to cut private canals into the Erie Canal and its tributaries, allowing him to build housing developments with access to the canal along about 45 miles of its shoreline. 
 Despite the Canal Corporation's earlier defense of awarding the contract, Mr. Fleischer said the corporation would be changing its procedures.
 ''We're canceling this contract because he didn't comply with the contract's provisions,'' he said. ''Going forward, the Canal Corporation and the authority are developing new procedures for the disposition of land on the canal.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A developer, Richard A. Hutchens, planned to put homes on the canal. (Photo by Chris Rank for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HISTORY (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



230 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Says Its Equity Fell By $1.6 Billion In First Quarter

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
Fannie Mae, the giant mortgage finance company, said an important measure of its performance turned sharply negative in the first quarter even though it reported a $1.9 billion profit.
 In a report to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Fannie Mae said its shareholders' equity fell $1.6 billion in the quarter, to $20.8 billion, as long-term interest rates fell. A company's equity is the amount left over after its debts are subtracted from its assets. The company noted that the decline resulted from falling interest rates and that rates have risen so far this quarter. 
 Fannie Mae discourages investors from judging it by changes in its shareholders' equity, arguing that the measure is very volatile and does not reflect its business. But some analysts and hedge fund managers say that the figure's bumpiness illustrates that the company's results are much more volatile than the company would like investors to believe.
 Fannie Mae also said that this quarter it would write down the value of trailer-home bonds on its books by about $250 million. The move comes in response to complaints from federal regulators and will have only a minimal effect on Fannie Mae's profits and balance sheet.
 In addition, the company extended until 2007 the employment contracts of three top executives, including Franklin D. Raines, its chief executive. The company did not provide details of the pay or options grants the executives will receive.
 With $1 trillion in assets, Fannie Mae ranks as the third-largest United States financial company, behind Citigroup and Bank of America. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, its slightly smaller corporate cousin, are government-sponsored companies that play a crucial role in the home mortgage market.
 Fannie and Freddie, as they are known to investors, buy mortgages from banks and other lenders with money they borrow from investors. Most of their profits come from the difference in interest rates between the mortgages they buy and the bonds they issue.
 The companies have come under sharp scrutiny from regulators, the Federal Reserve and the White House, which worry that they are too big, too risky and without enough equity capital to protect themselves from rapid changes in interest rates. With about $20 billion in shareholders' equity backing $1 trillion in loans, Fannie Mae has $50 in loans for every $1 in equity, making it much more highly leveraged than banks like Bank of America.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac say they are well run, closely regulated and sufficiently capitalized to withstand a large interest rate move. So far they have withstood scattered Congressional efforts to regulate them more closely, although the White House has proposed some administrative changes that could slow the companies' growth.
 Some hedge fund managers and analysts have criticized Fannie Mae's accounting practices, saying the company suffered big losses from interest-rate moves in 2001 and 2002 that were hidden by the complexity of its accounting. The analysts say the best way to judge Fannie Mae is by examining the fair value of all its assets and debts, a measure Fannie Mae releases once a year. Changes in shareholders' equity are an approximate gauge for changes in fair value.
 Fannie Mae has discouraged investors from judging it based on fair value or shareholders' equity. Those measures are very volatile and do not fully capture the value of its business, the company says.
 In an e-mail message to investors yesterday, Jayne Shontell, a senior vice president, said that the sharp rise in rates since early April had benefited the company. After noting that shareholder equity rose $5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2003, when five-year interest rates rose 0.4 percentage points, she pointed out that rates have risen 0.9 percentage points so far this quarter. In its S.E.C. filing, Fannie Mae said that change ''would have a positive effect.''
 Neither Ms. Shontell's letter nor the filing said how much shareholder equity had risen.
 The company also said it expected to write down the value of the trailer-home bonds and aircraft leases it owns by $240 million to $260 million this quarter, or $150 million to $170 million after taxes. The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, last week ordered Fannie Mae to use market values for the bonds instead of its proprietary estimates of their worth.
 The company has about $7.7 billion in bonds backed by manufactured housing, or trailer homes, and $300 million in securities backed by aircraft leases.
 Fannie Mae said it believed that its previous method of accounting for the bonds was consistent with standard accounting rules and that it would not restate its earlier financial statements as a result of the write-down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); HOME PRICES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Fannie Mae

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (59%) Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



231 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

U.S. Destroys Headquarters Of Rebel Cleric in Baghdad
The American military in Iraq said it had killed as many as 18 supporters of the rebel Shiite Muslim cleric Moktada al-Sadr as it demolished his main headquarters in Baghdad early yesterday morning during a heavy firefight that echoed around the capital. PAGE A12

'Wicked' Windfall
The musical ''Wicked,'' which tells the story of Oz from the witches' perspective, racked up 10 Tony award nominations. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Africa's Front-Runner
Despite having fewer elite runners and less resources, Ethiopia has outstripped its neighbor Kenya as the greatest distance-running country at international events such as the Olympics. SPORTSTUESDAY, PAGE D1

An Intelligence Gap
America's clandestine intelligence service has fewer than 1,100 case officers overseas, according to officials who say it will take five years for the United States to have the network it needs in place. PAGE A20

Monsanto Ends Wheat Plan
Monsanto said that it had halted its effort to introduce the world's first genetically engineered wheat, bowing to the concerns of American farmers. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Crackdown on Diesel Fuel
The administration announced regulations that would significantly reduce emissions from nonroad vehicles propelled by diesel fuel, like tractors and locomotives. PAGE A16

Stocks Decline Sharply
Stocks worldwide fell sharply as the prospect of higher interest rates, high oil prices and the war in Iraq unnerved investors. PAGE C1

Pulling Out All the Stops
The pipe organ at Walt Disney Hall in Los Angeles looks like no other. Installing it posed unique design and engineering challenges for its builders, who are trying to make all 6,134 pipes sound just right. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); IRAQ WAR (73%); WHEAT FARMING (72%); DIESEL FUEL (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (66%); EMISSIONS (66%); ENGINEERING (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ETHIOPIA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



232 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; In Back Pages, a Vivid History

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Library Records Trace Lower East Side's Past

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Here, in a series of businesslike reports, the Lower East Side of legend breathes again.
 The reports were compiled annually by the librarians of the 95-year-old Seward Park branch to let the New York Public Library's central administrators know how better to meet the neighborhood's needs. But in doing so, the librarians' observations -- sometimes in prosaic bureaucratese, sometimes in vivid, tender fashion -- chronicled changes in the neighborhood's ethnic makeup, economics and schooling. Their reports also singled out the books that riveted readers or that reflected solutions residents were seeking to the anxieties of their times. 
 In a 1920 report, the librarian took admiring note of how the neighborhood's tenement dwellers and sweatshop workers were thirsting for authors like Dickens and Hawthorne, but she also lamented the ''disorderliness, disregard of the rights of others, mental defectives and 'queer' characters on the borderland of sanity, thefts and book mutilations.'' 
 By the Depression, another branch librarian was struggling with ''undesirables'' dozing on radiators, but she was beguiled by the resilience of unemployed men who were searching for books on syrup flavoring and stocking manufacture so they could start their own businesses.
 For decades, the librarians struggled to meet the eclectic tastes of the neighborhood's Jews -- even ''Mein Kampf'' was popular in the World War II era -- but by 1971 the chief librarian said she was ''cutting back on the purchase of Jewish materials in order to build up the Chinese,'' and she colorfully expressed the urgency of doing so in an always curious neighborhood.
 ''The public here lives with their books,'' she wrote. ''This is the branch where a former librarian once found a fried egg in a book.''
 These glimpses of the life and times of the Lower East Side as seen through the lens of one of its bedrock institutions were recently unearthed in archives at the main library at 42nd Street. They were collected for the reopening last week of the Seward Park library building, a red-brick and stone palazzo on East Broadway at Jefferson Street that underwent a two-year, $6.3 million renovation.
 Other branches could submit similar accounts, but these are about the storied Lower East Side, the embodiment of the melting pot. The reports also reveal much about the moral perspectives of the librarians, whose impressions occasionally betray a note of condescension or worse but for the most part are filled with compassion and amused delight.
 The ''liberry,'' as the immigrants called it, functioned as the great educator and entertainer for the masses who made the clamorous streets their first American home. The reports from the 1920's describe how embryonic socialists intoxicated by volumes of Marx crowded next to bearded men bent over Yiddish versions of ''The Last of the Mohicans'' and young working women drinking in Byron and Poe.
 The hunger for knowledge and escape is palpable in one librarian's throwaway remark. The library, she said, had wisely decided to stop shelving books the same day they were returned and so ''did away with the restless, tired lines of children that often waited for hours in the hope of getting a better book.''
 The reports record necessary data: branch circulation (373,162 in 1921), usage by adults and children, the popularity of foreign versus English books. But they also offer irresistible nuggets, telling for example, how a campaign to improve reference room manners has led ''some of the busiest talkers to make their headquarters elsewhere.''
 The 1921 librarian, Esther Johnston, decided to increase the purchase of Western novels ''as an outlet for boys who will find their way soon enough to the realistic and neurotic books so popular on the East Side.'' By 1923, the library found itself disappointing too many readers seeking books popular at the time and so instituted a one-book limit on such volumes. 
 ''Naturally we do not designate the books as 'popular' to the children,'' the librarian wrote. ''One little boy explained the regulation to a friend by saying, 'You may have one book you want and one book you don't want.'''
 There are tasty sociological morsels, like the library's recording how prospering Jews were moving to the Bronx and Queens, leaving behind their poorer Orthodox brethren. But there are also some slips of prevailing racial attitudes. 
 ''What is going to happen to the neighborhood, no one will venture to prophesy,'' the 1926 librarian wrote. ''We may become a business district -- we may be invaded by the power Negroes (a few are to be seen now and then); Italians and Poles, forced out of the west side, may come (we have many more Italian children than formerly) or we may find ourselves in the midst of a housing rehabilitation.''
 The library struggled through the Depression with smaller staff, shorter hours and the added plague of a spontaneous flea market on its doorstep. But a librarian noted that some ''men, with not a thing in the world to do, have found direction for their lives'' by studying French and Esperanto, reading Scott and Wells.
 World War II stirred interest in war novels like ''They Were Expendable'' and ''A Bell for Adano.'' But readers were also grilling librarians, the way they might search Google today, for information on air raid regulations, rationing and ''how a pregnant woman whose husband is in the army gets government aid.'' Toward the end of the war families worried about the psychological problems of their returning veterans were requesting books by psychologist Karen Horney or those bearing titles like ''When Johnny Comes Marching Home.''
 For years the neighborhood had been losing its raw immigrant character -- the pushcarts, for example, were disappearing. But the end of the war prompted a librarian's report that said the neighborhood ''has again become a melting pot,'' with a stream of displaced persons who were asking for books in Polish, Hungarian or French and buttonholing the library's three Yiddish-speaking staff members. 
 One librarian in 1947 captured a dramatic moment: ''When the small boy, waiting for his mother in the Adult department, recognized the ex-soldier who had befriended him in a European concentration camp, there was a very affecting reunion.'' 
 The waning of the 1940's brought Puerto Ricans to the neighborhood and the librarian in 1951 lamented that while the enthusiasm of the children was forcing the library to buy Spanish titles, the adults do not ''find their way to the library.''
 ''Most of them are young people busy with home and babies, trying to adjust where adjustment is particularly difficult; a new language; a large and bewildering city, especially since they come from rural communities; laws and regulations which seem purposely bent on plaguing them,'' the librarian wrote.
 By the mid-1960's, the chief librarian was asking for a young adult librarian to cater to the black and Puerto Rican teenagers filling the new housing projects. In 1971, the librarian described the increasing numbers of Chinese youngsters in the reference room as ''the most methodical and thorough little researchers.'' But there were forces beyond ethnicity shaping the library. The branch librarian in the late 1970's bemoaned shorter hours, staff losses and sagging morale generated by the city's fiscal crisis.
 The reports are laced with timeless themes. By midcentury, circulation seemed to be declining and the 1951 librarian seemed to have a prescient suspicion why.
 ''Is the next cause the much blamed television?'' she wondered. ''Certainly there are great tangles of aerials on every roof.'' 
 Even in the prosperous 1950's, the neighborhood's elderly residents -- one librarian describes them as ''old men sitters'' -- were using the library for ''shelter.'' While librarians could simply ask them to leave, one librarian wrote, ''it cannot be done without causing a usually loud and angry response from the removee.''
 Whatever their country, fresh immigrants sought out the library like a life raft. The 1998 librarian, Susan Singer, noted how immigrants from China's Fukien province ''are escorted in by relatives to apply for a library card only days after arriving in the United States.''
 That fervor is still apparent today. On a recent afternoon, three dozen children of Chinese ethnicity sat reading books like ''Stan the Hot Dog Man,'' doing homework, or playing games on 30 new computers. Xiu Ming Liu, one of a loose-knit group of caretaking grandmothers, said the children virtually inhabit the library after school because they live in cramped apartments with brothers and sisters who distract them. 
 Mary Jones, the current branch librarian and herself an immigrant (from County Roscommon, Ireland), said that while adults crave best sellers like ''The Da Vinci Code,'' books in Chinese also fly from the shelves. The bookcases in the Chinese language section were almost bare. 
 But she also pointed to another bookcase that captured an era's passing. The library's Yiddish and Hebrew collection was reduced to three forlorn shelves, and almost all the books were still there.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The 95-year-old Seward Park branch library on the Lower East Side of Manhattan has been a neighborhood hub for generations of immigrants. At left, a scene from about 1910. Top left, Chinese immigrant children and adults use the computers. (Photo by The New York Public Library)
(Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Shelves nearly bare of books in Chinese reflect a new generation of immigrant users at the Seward Park branch library on the Lower East Side. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); LIBRARIANS (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); SWEATSHOPS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



233 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Jobs Mostly Bypasses the Factory Floor

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ohio 

 BODY:
Barry D. Laughlin, who manages the huge Navistar International truck factory here, does not even think of hiring more workers as production ramps up in a growing economy. 
 ''We can go up in output in a lot of other ways before we have to add workers,'' Mr. Laughlin said during a recent tour of the giant elongated plant on the rural outskirts of this southern Ohio city, whose downtown streets display closed brick factory buildings on many blocks. 
 Alternatives to hiring are still so numerous at all of Navistar's truck and engine plants that employment no longer rises and falls with the ups and downs in production, as it did through the 1990's. Last year, when the weak recovery gave way to more vigorous economic growth, truck production began to increase while the work force, instead of growing as it always had in the past, kept shrinking.
 The economy is on the rebound, but Navistar -- like many manufacturers who still manage to make things in the United States -- is sticking to recession-level employment. Service sector jobs are multiplying rapidly. Manufacturing employment, on the other hand, is down nearly 3 million over the last 44 months, and while some hiring has begun, the 37,000 manufacturing jobs created so far represent a minuscule contribution to the 708,000 jobs generated over the last three months across the entire economy. 
 Manufacturers themselves warn not to expect much of a job revival at their companies. ''We have cut back on an awful lot of manpower,'' said Jerry J. Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. ''There will be some hiring now, but it won't be extraordinary, not more than 200,000 all of this year.''
 That does not mean manufacturing is disappearing from the United States. Indeed, the companies that are most successful at keeping factories humming in America argue that new technologies, automated assembly lines, union concessions and the constant outsourcing of components to suppliers allow them to cut back on labor almost as fast as production rises. 
 ''A new structure is coming into place and until it does, that means fewer jobs, or at least not adding jobs,'' said John Zysman, co-director of the University of California's Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy and an expert on manufacturing. 
 Such assessments fly in the face of conventional political oratory. On the campaign trail and particularly in several critical Midwest battleground states, President Bush promises that manufacturing employment will go up in tandem with an invigorated recovery, thanks to the stimulus from his tax cuts.
 John Kerry, his Democratic rival, argues that rapidly rising health insurance costs, particularly for manufacturers, have inhibited hiring and the subsidies he proposes will eliminate this drag on employment. 
 The manufacturers themselves come at the issue from a different perspective. That is as true for Intel, the huge semiconductor manufacturer, as it is for Navistar, the successor to the International Harvester Company, which went under in the 1980's. The dynamics at each are roughly the same.
 Over the last five years, Intel has constructed four factories in the United States, at an average cost of $2.5 billion apiece. The investment allowed Intel to upgrade to the production of 12-inch silicon wafers from 8 inches and to reduce the size of a transistor to a mere 90 nanometers. Making the larger wafers requires the same 5,000 factory workers, says Chuck Mulloy, an Intel spokesman. But 2.5 times the number of computer chips can be cut from the larger wafer, partly because of its additional size and partly because technology keeps shrinking the size of each chip.
 ''We do not stay in America to optimize employment; we stay to improve our productivity,'' Mr. Mulloy said, noting that most of the factories are in the West, close to Intel's design center in Hillsboro, Ore., where many employees are trained in the evolving technologies. 
 There is another element in Intel's willingness to keep manufacturing in the United States: scale. Intel dominates the worldwide market for sophisticated chips, which means it can operate its factories 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That maximizes the output of its blue-collar workers, who earn up to $60,000 a year.
 Motorola, on the other hand, with less demand for its semiconductors, has moved some production to contractors in Taiwan that achieve economies of scale by making wafers for multiple customers.
 While Intel keeps its employment unchanged as it expands output, Navistar is still cutting people. Walk the milelong assembly line at the Navistar factory here, where midsize trucks are assembled -- trucks that leave Springfield with brightly painted cabs, powerful diesel engines and bare chassis -- and at nearly every stop the same tasks are now being done by fewer people. A truck that took 102 labor hours to build nearly two years ago, now requires only 58 hours, the company says.
 Orange robots with their rhythmical, bobbing movements are almost as numerous as workers, whose numbers have declined from 4,800 in the mid-1990's to 1,100 today. Three hundred of those workers were once engaged in making the truck's cab, cutting and shaping the steel panels and welding them together. With automation, only 44 are employed in those tasks today.
 To shape the different panels, dies must be changed three times a shift, a task that once required several people and often more than an hour of downtime. One person seated at a console now manipulates the dies, which are mounted on thick flat beds that slide in and out in less than 10 minutes. 
 ''The efficiency is mainly in the speed of the die changes and the elimination of job classifications,'' said Joe Leep, who manages cab assembly.
 The United Automobile Workers, which represents Navistar's workers in Springfield and Indianapolis, agreed to work-rule changes that were crucial to the decision to retain Navistar factories in Ohio and Indiana, the two states that have suffered the most job loss in recent years. 
 The company asserts that without such concessions, the nearly $1 billion invested over the last seven years in the modernization of the truck factory here and a diesel engine plant in Indianapolis, 150 miles to the west, would probably not have happened. 
 The alternative might have been expansion of production at Navistar's equally modern diesel engine factory in Huntsville, Ala., which has nonunion workers, and the shifting of truck production to one of Navistar's other nonunion plants, or to its Escobedo, Mexico, factory where midsize trucks are assembled for sale in Latin America. 
 ''If we had not been able to squeeze out the labor, we would have had to go someplace else,'' Robert C. Lannert, Navistar's chief financial officer, said. 
 To keep the work in union plants, the U.A.W. authorized two-tier wages: new hires will start at $17 an hour, not the present $22. Fixed benefit pensions are gone; only 401(k) plans are available to newcomers. And Navistar gained the right to schedule enough mandatory overtime to raise production by 28 percent, which at the truck plant is enough to produce 226 vehicles a day, on average, up from the present 177. 
 The U.A.W. reacts angrily to what Stephen Jones, assistant director of the union's heavy truck department, describes as Navistar's ''predatory'' tactics. ''They told us they were prepared to move all of the truck production to Escobedo,'' Mr. Jones said. ''They did not move because we came up with these concessions, but they were prepared to do so.''
 But if U.A.W. concessions help to keep jobs in the Midwest, sophisticated automation and innovative manufacturing practices whittle steadily away at the total number. At one station along the assembly line in Springfield, for example, two workers once manipulated the automated rigs that turn the steel beam chasses upside down so axles can be attached more easily. Now one worker does this. 
 Or climb to the catwalk overlooking the five automated piston stuffers at the Indianapolis engine plant, where employment has declined to 1,200 workers from 1,600 in 1998. As engine blocks roll by, machines swiftly insert piston rods and pistons while, from the opposite side, connecting rods are deftly bolted around the crankshaft. Eight workers once did this task by hand; now one monitors the automated piston stuffers, which, as a final gesture, rotate the crankshafts to test the results.
 ''No one wanted to do this difficult work by hand,'' said Tom Horn, the plant manager, ''and inevitably hand-stuffing resulted in a greater number of damaged crankshafts.''
 In Springfield, truck production is moving increasingly toward the assembly of prefabricated modules, 15 in all so far, each delivered by outside suppliers, usually from the Midwest but sometimes overseas. Eaton, based in Cleveland, provides transmissions, with some imported from an Eaton factory in Brazil. The Dana Corporation, also nearby, supplies the rear axles, going abroad for some of the components, among them labor-intensive gear forgings.
 Thus does manufacturing survive in America. But if job creation is missing, skills are preserved. Navistar engineers in Indianapolis, for example, are engaged constantly in redesigning their V-8 diesel engine, to satisfy ever-stricter federal emissions standards. ''The advantage we gain is in the technology we develop,'' Mr. Hunt said.
 There is another potential benefit. Manufacturing's share of all the goods and services that America produces has fallen precipitously since the mid-1970's, when American companies began to lose their hegemony in world markets. It now represents less than 14 percent of gross domestic product, down from more than 22 percent in 1976, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
 A reversal of that trend might reduce the huge trade deficit as merchandise made in America is increasingly substituted for imports. The rising output, in turn, would generate more jobs, if not in manufacturing, then in satellite industries, says Dan Luria, an economist at the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. 
 ''We would get the programmers, the packaging people, the testing people, the equipment maintenance companies,'' Mr. Luria said. ''The multiplier effect is considerable.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An assembly worker and a machine at the Navistar International plant in Springfield, Ohio, install a windshield in a truck. Technology is enabling manufacturers to accomplish tasks with fewer workers. (Photo by Greg Sailor for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Barry Laughlin, the general manager at the Navistar International plant in Springfield, Ohio. (Photo by Greg Sailor for The New York Times)(pg. C9)Graph: ''Making More
Adding Less''While manufacturing has increased over all, its share of gross domestic product has declined and it requires fewer workers.Graphs track Manufacturing Output Index, Manufacturing's share of G.D.P. and Jobs since 1950. (Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Bureau of Labor Statistics, Federal Reserve)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); RECESSION (77%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Labor; Factories and Industrial Plants; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



234 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; PUBLIC LIVES

LENGTH: 896 words

PERSON: Kenneth Adams 

HEADLINE: If Brooklyn's Your Borough, Then He's Your Guy

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
THERE is a reason that Kenneth Adams is called Mr. Brooklyn, though he demurs that this honorific is inappropriate. ''I'm more comfortable if I'm called 'the Other Mr. Brooklyn,''' says Mr. Adams, the hyperkinetic president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. He pipes up that the real Mr. Brooklyn is Marty Markowitz, the borough president. ''He's my friend; he's my guy.''
 Then again, everyone seems to be Mr. Adams's guy. ''I'm loving Marty. I'm loving the mayor. I'm loving Gifford.'' (That's Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker.) ''I'm loving Pataki.'' He returns to the subject later to make sure that he has expressed his love for the State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver. ''I'm loving Speaker Silver. They're all my leaders. I love them all! They're all doing great things for Brooklyn.'' 
 Mr. Adams, who has lanky good looks and a boyish grin, is in the business of optimism. On a recent afternoon, he is found in the artsy Brooklyn waterfront neighborhood of Dumbo. He is presiding over the second annual Brooklyn Designs show, which he dreamed up to feature the works of Brooklyn-based furnishings designers and manufacturers. Dressed in a blue blazer and khakis, he arrived early for a breakfast and a press event. (He admits he has never met a microphone he did not like.)
 Mr. Adams is a relentless promoter of Brooklyn. He cheers at the thought of an Ikea store for Red Hook. The Swedish furniture giant wants to plop an enormous yellow and blue box of a megastore there in a somewhat contentious plan. Yeah, he says, his fist punches the air. Hear of a free-market, card-carrying Democrat? That would be Mr. Adams. ''I'm into free trade and market forces and Ikeas,'' he says.
 Recently, he was on public radio touting Brooklyn Healthworks, a new low-cost insurance program for small businesses. He also conceived of Brooklyn Connects, a plan to plug minority- and women-owned businesses into the borough's construction boom, and Brooklyn Eats, an annual showcase of restaurants. 
 Mr. Adams, 44, has the upbeat, genial manner of a popular television weatherman whose forecast will never call for rain. He is the former founding executive director of New York Cares, the nonprofit volunteer group for which he created a signature annual coat drive. He came to the chamber eight and a half years ago after a brief stint as head of the MetroTech Business Improvement District in downtown Brooklyn. The chamber, founded in 1918, was rather staid, an old-boy club, before Mr. Adams put it on steroids. It is now the city's largest chamber and one of the loudest mouths in the state. (He should know. He is chairman of the Chamber Alliance of New York State.) Since he took over, the chamber has doubled in size to 1,200 members, mainly small businesses.
 ''Brooklyn is not known for shy people, and certainly our chamber reflects the idea that Brooklyn is full of characters, and most of them run small businesses,'' he says.
 At the Brooklyn Designs show, Mr. Adams lopes through the warehouse on a quick, snappy tour. He cannot be coaxed into saying what design work he likes the most. ''I love them all,'' he says, a bit mischievously. The conversation then moves up the street. He sits on the terrace of Rice, a hipster, Asian-eclectic restaurant, where he takes a swig of ginger lemonade and twirls his chopsticks into a bowl of Vietnamese lemon grass chicken salad.
 Mr. Adams can tell you everything you need to know about Brooklyn: how Brooklyn is New York City's most populous borough, with 2.5 million people; how it has an unemployment rate of 8.8 percent, more than Manhattan's, similar to that of the Bronx; how the borough's economy is showing signs of growth in retail, construction, financial services and tourism. 
 ''We don't run after the sectors on the wane,'' he says. ''We really put resources in areas where growth is going on.''
 MR. ADAMS grew up in Cobble Hill. His father is a retired real estate lawyer, his mother a retired school librarian. His family goes back five generations in Brooklyn. But his voice does not have a hint of Brooklynese. What's the deal? ''My family has been around so long, it wore off,'' he quips. He says that a great-grandmother on his father's side took part in the opening-day ceremony of the Brooklyn Bridge in 1883 because her father owned a construction company that worked on it. That company later dug tunnels for the Eighth Avenue subway line.
 Mr. Adams studied Spanish literature at Middlebury College in Vermont, then spent five years in Madrid, where he ran a study abroad program for American high school students. At age 26, he returned to New York for his first foray into community development. He was a supervisor in the City Volunteer Corps, a kind of urban Peace Corps in the mayoral administration of Edward I. Koch. Mr. Adams organized volunteers in soup kitchens, park cleanups and in building renovations. Fixing up old buildings is a hobby for him. He lives in a renovated parking garage in Boerum Hill with his wife, Diana, an insurance executive, and their two daughters, ages 6 and 8. 
 So are there higher ambitions? Politics? ''That's the yikes question,'' he says. ''Down the road, I wouldn't rule it out. Certainly, it isn't happening now. I'm working hard on so many exciting projects around the borough. But government is where one can make great things happen at a larger scale.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: KENNETH ADAMS (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MAYORS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); WEATHER (63%); WOMEN (62%); PUBLIC RADIO (61%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

K S ADAMS JR (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



235 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: City Rent Board Recommends Tentative, Not Firm, Increases

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
In a sharp departure from tradition, which befuddled landlords and tenants alike, the New York City Rent Guidelines Board last night opted not to recommend a specific set of rent increases for one- and two-year leases on the city's one million rent stabilized apartments. 
 Instead, the board offered a tentative range of increases that will be made final on June 17 -- anywhere from 3 to 5.5 percent for one-year leases, and 5.5 to 7.5 percent for two year leases. 
 Ordinarily, the board makes a firm set of recommendations that does not change between an initial vote and the final one. But last night, Marvin Markus, the board's chairman, unveiled the concept of a range of increases before a confused audience at Cooper Union, saying that he wanted more debate. 
 ''I believe this board is not ready to make a final decision, '' Mr. Markus said. Indeed, in a sign of how divided the board was in the 5-to-4 vote, its two landlord representatives took opposite positions.
 Whatever the final numbers -- and Mr. Markus said in an interview that the board would be within its purview to go beyond the suggested ranges -- the vote clears the way for a second straight year of what tenant groups contend are unconscionable rent increases, but what landlord groups say are justifiable adjustments to compensate them for rising costs.
 Last year, the board raised rents by the biggest amounts since 1989 -- 4.5 percent for one-year leases and 7.5 percent for two-year leases.
 Last night began in typical fashion for the annual meeting. Outside, tenants denounced any increases and criticized Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who appointed a majority of the board's members; inside, tenants and landlords wore competing baseball caps and traded verbal jabs. But Mr. Markus's proposal seemed to catch everyone off guard. 
 Michael McKee, associate director of Tenants and Neighbors, a statewide advocacy group, said, ''I thought I'd seen every manipulation that Marvin Markus could come up with, but this is a doozy.'' He said that the board perhaps was trying to deflect criticism by avoiding specifics until the last minute.
 And Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, an owners' group, said: ''I don't think it's a good precedent. I think there's more uncertainty.''
 Of the city's three million dwelling units, about two million are occupied by renters. The national rate is one-third renters. Of those two million rental apartments, about one million are stabilized and subject to the rates set by the board.
 Since it was established in 1968 to review rent rates for the city's stabilized units, the board has never authorized a rent decrease or freeze. During the high-inflation era of the late 1970's and early 80's, the board sometimes ratified increases of up to 14 percent for two-year leases. But for most of the last decade, rents for stabilized apartments have gone up a few percentage points, in keeping with low inflation and, to a lesser degree, with annual surveys measuring landlord costs and incomes.
 In 2002, for instance, the board approved increases of 2 percent for one-year leases and 4 percent for two-year leases, even though the Price Index of Operating Costs, a summary of landlord expenses like utilities and labor, dipped for the first time. But last year, the board authorized increases that were dwarfed by a 16.9 percent jump in the index, the biggest since 1980.
 This year, landlord costs grew at a much slower pace -- 6.9 percent. Even so, landlord groups warned about the unknown impact of the city's new lead paint law.
 The law, which regulates the removal of lead-paint hazards, including dust, from apartments built before 1960, goes into effect in August. City officials and landlord groups contended that the cost could be millions of dollars, but tenant groups said that figure was exaggerated.
 At the end of the 90-minute session last night, the board also tentatively approved a range of increases for lofts and residential hotels. For lofts, the numbers were 2.5 to 5 percent for one-year leases and 5 to 7 percent for two-year leases. For hotels, the suggested annual increase was 0 to 2 percent for one-year leases, the only kind offered.
 On June 15, the public will have an opportunity to weigh in on the rent increases during an all-day hearing, also at Cooper Union. The final vote is scheduled for June 17; the resulting increases would apply to leases that are renewed between Oct. 1 of this year and Sept. 30, 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



236 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Friendlier Skies on an Unfriendly Planet

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: Jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
In Rome during the 1970's, I once stopped at a cafe where the proprietor kept a parrot on a perch by the bar. When the parrot abruptly uttered a sentence in Italian, I was utterly flabbergasted. 
 I've always recalled that anecdote, with some embarrassment, as a sort of personal cultural watershed. Rube from Philadelphia that I was, it had simply never struck me until then that a parrot would speak anything but English. 
 Actually, my first taste of what we now refer to as the globalization experience had come a decade earlier, courtesy of the United States military, but that didn't really count. No, the Italian-speaking parrot was my major travel eye-opener. From that point on, I realized that the world, experienced, would never accommodate even the silliest prejudices.
 That was one general attitude conveyed 10 days ago at the two-day annual conference of the World Travel and Tourism Council, which was held in Qatar and drew about 1,000 representatives from the travel industry and from world governments.
 It certainly was not lost on anybody in attendance at the glitzy Sheraton hotel in Doha, cuddled beside the Persian Gulf, that a war raged 700 miles away and that terrible passions were broiling there and around the world. Let's just say Polyanna skipped this trip. 
 Yet there was a palpable sense in Qatar that business and leisure travel, which the council says will generate a combined $3.13 trillion in global spending this year and grow steadily afterward, may with sensible guidance evolve into a viable, inexorably positive economic, political and diplomatic force.
 Expanding leisure and business travel, said Jean-Claude Baumgarten, president of the travel organization, portends ''a more mature response to a complex world.''
 The global recovery now under way in travel should accelerate this year barring any new terrorist attacks or unexpected outbreaks of disease, travel experts told the council. 
 This will occur, of course, against the backdrop of a travel industry, and especially an aviation industry, that is struggling to accommodate growing demand against cut-throat competition all over the world. Except perhaps among the top five-star hotels, which have managed to maintain their rates globally, travel suppliers aren't expecting to enjoy price increases while world business expands.
 ''I expect we should build our businesses in the travel sector assuming price deflation,'' said Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the founder of easyJet, one of Europe's leading low-cost airlines. 
 As air travel costs plunge with the proliferation of low-fare airlines all over the world, even hotels will be under greater pressure to cut rates, he said, adding, ''The price of flying and the price of accommodation is out of whack.''
 Low-fare carriers, meanwhile, are spreading even to the Middle East, long a bastion of well-protected national flag carriers. That means, as it has everywhere else, that people who seldom if ever flew suddenly are able to do so.
 Said an executive from the United Arab Emirates-based Air Arabia, which calls itself the first no-frills carrier in the Middle East: ''Of all the people who fly us, 70 percent never flew on an airplane before. They were bus riders. People in the Middle East are no different than anywhere else. They want to fly, and they want cheap seats.''
 The Middle East itself is enjoying a boom in both leisure and business travel. Dubai has already established itself as a major world destination, and its flagship airline, Emirates, routinely comes up as one of the world's favorites in polls of business travelers.
 Likewise, Qatar says it will have invested $1.4 trillion by 2014 to develop itself as a major global business and leisure-resort center. Qatar Airways, which competes with Emirates for valuable business-class travelers, is also rapidly expanding ambitiously. Last week it announced plans to fly to 70 worldwide destinations, including the United States, by the end of 2005. 
 Obviously, rosy forecasts of surging travel depend on the absence of another catastrophic terrorist attack. And travel officials -- mindful of how the SARS epidemic caused a collapse in travel in Asia last year -- are anxiously monitoring outbreaks of communicable diseases this year anywhere in the world and are getting information out sooner, with help from governments.
 On that front, lessons have been learned since early last year, when the Chinese government was slow in releasing reliable information about the spread of the SARS outbreak, said Kazem Behbehani, an assistant director general of the World Health Organization. 
 In general, ''crisis communication'' has improved markedly, he said, adding, ''If you have the information to the public, the panic will be less.'' 
 Travel being primarily a business, there is, of course, a tendency to blame the news media for spreading bad news -- even when the news is bad indeed. A survey conducted by the travel council showed that about 75 percent of its members blame the news media for making their jobs in promoting travel and tourism more difficult.
 But at the conference, reality met prejudice and seemed to win once again. ''Whingeing about the news media won't solve any problems,'' one delegate told colleagues.
 Yes, travel is a surging force for peace. But peace is not general all over the world. Let's not get carried away and shrug off the threats. Better to travel smart and prepared, experts said. As Jihad Ballout, the communications manager for the controversial Arab news organization Al Jazeera, told the delegates:
 ''The security risk is real. There is no sense of camouflaging it with an awful lot of optimism.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (88%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); AIRLINES (87%); AIR FARES (83%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); DEFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Conventions and Conferences

ORGANIZATION: World Travel and Tourism Council

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (70%) QATAR (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (75%) Qatar

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



237 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: World Markets Fall; Lows for Year in U.S.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stock markets worldwide fell sharply yesterday as the prospect of higher interest rates in the United States, high oil prices and the war in Iraq unnerved investors.
 All three of Wall Street's main market gauges fell more than 1 percent to new lows for the year, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell below 10,000 for the first time since mid-December. The Dow is now off 4.4 percent for the year while the Nasdaq composite index is down 5.4 percent.
 The declines in foreign markets were steeper, as investor confidence was undermined Friday by the drop in stocks and sharp rise in interest rates in the United States on Friday. Japan's main stock index fell nearly 5 percent, while South Korea's market dropped 5.7 percent and Brazil's declined 5.4 percent. Major European markets were off more than 2 percent. 
 Despite an unexpectedly strong United States employment report on Friday, investors are focusing more on the effect of higher interest rates than on economic growth. Although the report, which showed the addition of 288,000 jobs in April, seemed to confirm that the recovery was in full swing in the United States, investors do not know how much the rise in interest rates could slow growth and corporate profits.
 In addition, there is a move among big institutional players, like Wall Street firms betting with their money and hedge funds, to reduce the risky positions they had taken when it was clear the Federal Reserve was going to keep interest rates low. Those low rates made taking on more risk cheaper and safer. 
 These risky positions include big bets in emerging markets, which fell sharply yesterday, and in the bond market, where the sell-off since April has been enough to push the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note up almost a full percentage point.
 Referring to the prospect of a Fed rate increase as soon as late June, Philip Suttle, international economist at J.P. Morgan, said the sell-offs in the stock and bond markets were ''a reminder that at inflection points like this you can get some pretty big market adjustment.'' 
 Rod Smyth, chief investment strategist at Wachovia Securities, said the hedge fund world, which magnifies its bets with billions of dollars of borrowing, ''is changing from positions it had been comfortable with for some time, and that is why you are seeing moves like this'' in stocks and bonds. 
 The direction of stock prices will depend on several factors, including how deep the current slump goes. If the three main gauges decline much further, a lot of stocks will begin to look attractive again.
 Laszlo Birinyi, who runs a research and money management firm in Westport, Conn., said that investors also needed to move past their fear of interest rate increases by the Fed. A rise in the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks from the current 1 percent to 2 percent ''is not going to put General Motors out of business,'' he said.
 The sell-off in stocks yesterday was also prompted by a reminder of corporate scandals. 
 Citigroup announced that it was setting aside $4.95 billion for legal costs, including a settlement with investors in WorldCom and potential settlements from suits by investors in Enron.
 Shares of Citigroup fell $1.31, or 2.8 percent, to $45.41, dragging down both the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Oil stocks also fell after the oil minister of Saudi Arabia called on the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase output to avoid hurting the global economy. Exxon Mobil fell $1.20, or 2.8 percent, to $42.05, while ChevronTexaco was off $2.48, or 2.7 percent, to $89.17.
 The price of crude oil for June delivery, which broke through $40 a barrel in intraday trading on Friday, fell $1, or 2.5 percent, to $39.35 in New York, though gasoline prices in the United States are at record levels and the price of oil is still near a 13-year high.
 The S.&P. 500 fell 11.58 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,087.12. It is off 2.2 percent for the year and at its lowest close since Dec. 17. The Dow dropped 127.32 points, or 1.3 percent, to 9,990.02, its lowest close since Dec. 10. The Nasdaq composite index fell 21.89 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,896.07, its lowest since Nov. 11.
 Mr. Smyth, of Wachovia Securities, said in his weekly report that the stock market was stumbling because it is ''a discounting mechanism and is always looking into the future.'' 
 ''Thus stocks tend to do best when investors expect economic acceleration, for example a year ago,'' he said. ''Looking forward from today, investors are dealing with the prospect of higher interest rates, persistently high energy prices and political uncertainty.'' 
 The bond market was little changed yesterday after a sharp decline in prices and a big jump in yields on Friday after the unemployment report was released. It was the second consecutive unexpectedly strong employment report and prompted analysts, economists and investors to move up their prediction of a Fed rate increase, the first since May 2000, to as early as next month instead of later in the year or even early next year. Yesterday the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.80 percent from 4.78 percent Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 5/32, to 9327/32. 
 The prospect of higher interest rates in the United States helped the dollar, which rose 0.2 percent against the euro and 1.4 percent against the yen. In afternoon trading, the euro fell to $1.1867, from $1.1895 on Friday. The dollar rose to 113.72 yen from 112.15, helped by the plunge in Japanese stocks.
 Analysts are saying that two sectors are particularly vulnerable to a rise in interest rates -- banks and other financial companies and utilities.
 Milton Ezrati, senior economic strategist at Lord, Abbett & Company, told clients yesterday: ''It is because of this consideration, though not it alone, that Lord Abbett's equity portfolios currently underweight financials significantly. Utilities, too, are rate sensitive and underweighted in part to guard against the ill effects of expected rate hikes.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.732	99.319	High Rate	1.060	1.340	Investment Rate	1.078	1.368	Low Rate	1.030	1.300	Median Rate	1.050	1.320	Total applied for	$47,646,178	$34,135,495	Accepted	$24,855,611	$20,529,300	Noncompetitive	$1,383,600	$860,633	

Both issues are dated May 13, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Aug.12, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Nov. 12, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Korea's benchmark composite stock price index closed 5.73 percent lower, as shown on these monitors at the stock exchange in Seoul. It was the biggest percentage loss since Oct. 10, 2002. (Photo by Reuters)
Traders watched as shares fell at the opening of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C13)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since Jan. (Source by The Bond Buyer)(pg. C13)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13)Chart: ''Around the Clock, Around the World, Markets Down''Cumulative change, April 26 through yesterday.Chart shows market changes in the following countries and their corresponding markets:JAPANNikkei 225UNITED STATESDow JonesHONG KONGHang SengTAIWANTaiexKOREACompositeMEXICOBolsaSTOCKHOLMOMXBRITAINFTSEFRANCECACGERMANYDAX(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Reuters)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BONDS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Stocks and Bonds; Economic Conditions and Trends; Records and Achievements; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates; Currency

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; European Union

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) Iraq; Japan; South Korea ; Brazil; Saudi Arabia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



238 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: France Splits With Europe Over Farm Subsidy Plan

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, May 10 

 BODY:
A surprise move by the European Commission to scrap its agricultural export subsidies to get global trade talks moving again was welcomed Monday by some of the union's trading partners, but criticized by its most important farming nation, France.
 The commission, which has the mandate to negotiate a global trade agreement on behalf of the European Union, has offered to eliminate the 2.8 billion euros ($3.3 billion) in export subsidies the union pays to its farmers, so long as other countries like the United States make similar moves. Over all, the union provides its farmers 43 billion euros ($51 billion) a year in subsidies.
 Export subsidies for farmers in the developed world were among the main issues that blocked an agreement last September at a meeting of the 148 members of the World Trade Organization in Cancun, Mexico. 
 The aim of the failed meeting, and the renewed efforts under way, is to agree to the broad terms of a new global pact intended to make trade more equitable to developing countries, and in particular to help the poorest nations, which suffer most from the protectionist policies of wealthier nations.
 Developing countries including Brazil and India walked out of the Cancun meeting saying that the world's richest nations failed to offer enough concessions on agriculture and other issues. They complained particularly about Europe's export subsidies and the United States's domestic subsidies.
 Europe's trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, said at a news conference on Monday that the commission's initiative showed that ''we are ready to go the extra mile'' to break the deadlock in Cancun.
 The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, welcomed the commission's proposal, and said the United States would reciprocate.
 ''The United States has noted it will support the E.C.'s move by agreeing to negotiate a parallel elimination of the subsidy element within export credits, and to negotiate disciplines on food aid to preclude displacement of commercial sales,'' Mr. Zoellick said in a statement Monday.
 The United States supports its farmers' efforts to sell their produce abroad by paying them for their contributions to food aid to the world's poorest nations, and by granting them export credits, rather than straight subsidies.
 The European Union has already reduced export subsidies to 2.8 billion euros last year from around 10 billion euros ($11.9 billion) a year in 1992, while export credits to American farmers last year totaled 3.2 billion euros ($3.8 billion), the commission said, adding that American farmers get billions more in export subsidization ''under the guise of food aid.'' The United States spends around $20 billion a year subsidizing its farmers.
 France, the union's largest farming nation, said that the commission exceeded its mandate by offering to scrap all export subsidies.
 ''This idea was unilaterally advanced by Mr. Lamy; there was no debate about it in Europe,'' said the French trade minister, Francois Loos.
 Mr. Loos said it was wrong to make such an offer when countries like the United States and Australia had made no such gestures.
 ''We have made a lot of steps ahead, now we want to see others do the same,'' he said, adding that the United States has made no effort to scrap its aid to cotton exporters.
 France appeared to be isolated in its opposition to the commission's plan. Midranking trade officials from the 25 member countries of the union met Friday in Brussels to discuss the idea. ''The general atmosphere was pretty supportive,'' said one European Union diplomat, on condition of anonymity.
 Another diplomat said that although the commission did not need unanimous support from its members for its negotiating stances on trade, ''It would be hard, politically, to push ahead without the support of the union's biggest farming nation.''
 Mr. Lamy said that with presidential elections in the United States this fall, it would be hard to make progress on the trade talks, known as the Doha round, after the summer.
 ''We have a limited window of opportunity between now and the end of July,'' he said, and he urged other W.T.O. members not to let the chance pass. ''All W.T.O. members, developed and developing alike, have to translate general expressions of political commitment into concrete movement on the substance if we want to get an agreement by July.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Farmers; Treaties

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%) European Union

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) Paul Meller

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (95%); MEXICO (93%); BELGIUM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (55%) France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



239 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Japan Gets a Taste of Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: NUMAZU, Japan 

 BODY:
On March 31, 1854, Japan signed a trade treaty with the United States, a commercial power backed by ''black ships'' rocking at anchor off Shimoda, 40 miles south of here.
 Almost 150 years later to the day, on April 7, the latest manifestation of Yankee commercial spirit opened here: Japan's first Wal-Mart-style Supercenter -- a single-floor, 85,000-square-foot store, with wide aisles, a single bank of cash registers, parking for 574 cars and plans for 24-hour operation.
 Outside, the big red-and-white signs proclaim Seiyu, but inside the systems are largely Wal-Mart, the fruit of a two-year investment by the Arkansas-based retailer in Seiyu Ltd., Japan's fifth-largest supermarket chain. In this airy expanse, from the extra-large fresh fish counter to a wall of discounted soft drinks, the name Wal-Mart is nowhere to be found, part of a stealth campaign as the world's largest retailer enters the world's second-largest retail market. 
 The Wal-Mart name is not enough to win over customers in Japan, where recognition of the brand is low, Jeff McAllister, Wal-Mart's chief operating officer for Japan, said in Tokyo.
 More important, he said, Wal-Mart systems are already lowering prices through computerization of inventory, close coordination with suppliers and constant pressure to squeeze rents and labor costs. At this store, only 18 of the 172 ''associates'' are full-time employees, a major step toward Wal-Mart's 2007 goal of introducing Japan to its bare-bones motto, ''Every Day Low Prices.'' 
 On a recent afternoon, at this seaport 70 miles southwest of Tokyo, Seiyu's uniformed parking attendant worked furiously to find space for a constant flow of cars and minivans. Reviews by shoppers were mixed.
 ''It's big. People say it's American-style, but it's too big for Japanese,'' grumbled Yuichi Sugiyama, a 72-year-old shopper. ''I like small and cozy shops.''
 But Morihiro Watanabe, a 40-year-old city worker, said he liked the low prices, the variety and the clear signs. ''I like that they have everything on one floor, and the signs are easy to understand. I think I will become a repeat customer,'' he said.
 Wal-Mart is betting on Japan's Watanabe-sans. The gamble is that Japan is shifting from homemakers shopping by bicycle two or times a week toward couples making American-style, once-a-week outings in the van. Indeed, a big question is whether Wal-Mart can turn Seiyu around fast enough.
 In an echo of the Wal-Mart success in the United States and Mexico, the fastest growing segment in Japan's supermarket scene are stores over 100,000 square feet, larger than the superstore just opened here.
 Meanwhile, Wal-Mart is following a cautious, test-the-waters approach adopted in Japan by the world's other big supermarket chains. Over the last five years, America's Costco Wholesale Corporation, France's Carrefour and Germany's Metro -- have all opened stores in Japan. But despite new laws allowing large stores, expansion is slow. Carrefour has eight stores, Costco has four and Metro has two. In August, Britain's Tesco will acquire Japan's Fre'c Company, a chain of food markets.
 Behind the lure of Japan's $1.3 trillion market are domestic chains competing fiercely for a shrinking pie of consumer spending. Behind these chains are entrenched networks of wholesalers who doggedly defend inefficient supply chains.
 Wal-Mart has been similarly cautious, studying the Japanese market for five years before buying 6 percent of Seiyu two years ago. Last August, it increased that investment to 38 percent. In 18 months from now, in December 2005, Wal-Mart must decide whether to exercise an option to buy 54 percent, or majority control.
 Operating in nine foreign countries, including Japan, Wal-Mart has never retreated since starting its international expansion in 1991, into Mexico. Now, it will have to show that Seiyu, which lost $43 million in the first quarter, can meet Wal-Mart's profitability standards.
 Seiyu executives believe a turnaround has started. First-quarter losses were a tenth those of the same period last year. For this calendar year, Seiyu is forecasting a small profit, about $4.5 million. Setting a target of part-timers accounting for 85 percent of store staffs, Seiyu encouraged 1,600 full-time employees to take early retirement in March. 
 In a major lift for Wal-Mart, Japanese consumers are increasingly price-conscious, gripped by the sensation that their incomes are flattening or declining. 
 ''You need to assure that on a basket of goods, you are offering a meaningful difference,'' Mr. McAllister said at the Tokyo office, seated at a table littered with low-price items: $9 jeans, a 78-cent toothbrush and an 88-cent flashlight. 
 One key may be Seiyu's adoption of Retail Link, a computer system of constant inventory control, from supplier warehouses to the cash register to the clerk on an aisle with a hand-held computer.
 ''Five minutes with the computer, five minutes on the phone, and we can see sales pick up on an item in the afternoon,'' Mike Bratcher, Wal-Mart's Japan vice president for merchandising, said in Tokyo, explaining the system to a group of Japanese financial reporters.
 It is still too early to tell whether Wal-Mart's investment here will succeed.
 ''The Wal-Mart system has been adapted well at some Seiyu stores. However, it is too early to tell if Wal-Mart style is accepted by Japanese consumers,'' said Machiko Amano, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's in Tokyo. ''Most housewives visit stores three times a week, maybe every day, compared to once a week in the United States.'' 
 ''Is there a Wal-Mart effect that is coming into Japan?'' asked Jeffrey Young, chief economist for Nikko Citigroup. ''The jury has got to be out on that.'' 
 But Wal-Mart executives believe that cars and suburban shopping are the wave of the future. While Japan's consumer pie may not grow in coming years, they say, portions will be redistributed according to companies that can exploit future trends.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers at the Wal-Mart-inspired Seiyu store in Numazu, about 70 miles southwest of Tokyo, get a chance to experience American-style big-box shopping. Wal-Mart owns 38 percent of Seiyu. (Photo by Franck Robichon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); SOFT DRINKS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MINIVANS (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Retail Stores and Trade; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); SEIYU LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Seiyu Ltd; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



240 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: China Moves Again to Rein In Inflation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 10 

 BODY:
China took four more steps on Sunday and Monday to slow inflation, including setting limited price controls in provinces where the cost of living is rising fastest.
 The other steps were aimed at stanching some types of lending and development in order to cool the economy: to require more comprehensive examinations of banks' books, so as to discourage risky loans; to set stricter limits on converting farmland to industrial or residential use; and to re-evaluate previous government approvals of projects in overheated sectors like steel, cement and real estate.
 The State Development and Reform Commission in Beijing caused considerable confusion in financial markets on Monday after posting on its Internet site a vaguely worded statement requiring provinces to limit price increases. Officials in four different departments of the commission declined to comment. 
 By late Monday, business executives and economists were saying that the price controls were set on industries that are already regulated like transportation, electricity and water. Harley Seyedin, chief executive of the First Washington Group, which is based in Guangzhou and owns a power plant in Dongguan, said that he had spent the afternoon making calls about the announcement and had concluded that it would not extend price controls to any previously unregulated industries.
 Beijing has already given permission for two electricity price increases this year as coal prices have climbed quickly, with the second increase only approved on Sunday, so it was unlikely to have approved any more increases for the rest of the year anyway, Mr. Seyedin said.
 ''It really is not going to matter much, because those things are going to be regulated anyway,'' he said.
 Liang Hong, an economist in the Hong Kong offices of Goldman Sachs, said that taken together, the latest measures would not address what she described as China's two root causes of overheating investment and rising inflation: an undervalued currency, which prompts heavy speculative inflows of money, and interest rates that are extremely low when adjusted for inflation.
 ''While we maintain our view of no hard landing in China, the use of blunt administrative measures as a substitute for market-based mechanisms will increase the risk of policy error,'' she said in a report.
 The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index fell 7.7 percent here on Monday, its biggest decline in four years. The Shanghai market fell 2.2 percent on Monday and the Shenzhen market dropped 2.5 percent, part of a broader drop by Asian markets as investors responded not only to the Chinese price controls but to the strong employment figures announced Friday in the United States, after Asian markets had closed for the weekend.
 The improving job market in the United States makes it more likely that the Federal Reserve will push up short-term interest rates. Economists said that China would be more likely to raise its interest rates for the first time since 1995 if the Fed acts; for China to raise rates on its own would carry the risk of drawing in additional speculative money that would make it even harder for Beijing to fight inflation.
 Monday's confusion over price controls was the latest sign of a growing problem. As China has become one of the world's biggest economies and largest importers, its every move has become the subject of minute-by-minute scrutiny in financial markets.
 Yet many Chinese government agencies continue to issue vaguely worded statements and then refuse to elaborate, or even issue broad edicts to industries and then refuse to confirm or deny that the edicts were even issued. The China Banking Regulatory Commission issued orders to banks two weeks ago to restrict lending before the May Day holidays; the agency initially denied it had issued any instructions, then reversed itself and said that instructions had been issued, but it still has not published the details of what the instructions were.
 China has been struggling with corruption at all levels of government. But there have been no cases of officials being accused of using opaque agency statements to manipulate the markets for personal gain.
 The price control statement called for each province to limit increases if consumer prices rose a full percent from one month to the next, or were 4 percent higher than the previous year for three consecutive months. Even in provinces where prices are rising more slowly, officials were instructed to space out price increases.
 One economic mystery these days in China is the true extent of inflation. The National Statistics Bureau has scheduled an announcement on Friday of consumer inflation during April. While bureau officials have strongly denied that they have been manipulating the figures, many independent economists are suspicious.
 The bureau said last month that consumer prices rose 2.4 percent in urban areas and 4.2 percent in rural areas in the 12 months through March. Even though two-thirds of the population lives in rural areas, the bureau calculated that this meant that inflation nationwide was 3 percent. That is what China's State Council, or cabinet, has been saying for months is the maximum acceptable inflation rate.
 But the few details released by the bureau made it unclear how the rate could be so low. The bureau said, for example, that food prices, the biggest component of the consumer price index by far, were up 7.9 percent. And the main category of food -- rice and other grains -- was up 10.8 percent.
 Separate data from the People's Bank of China, the country's central bank, has shown prices rising at a much brisker pace. The bank's overall index of prices that companies pay for raw materials, intermediate goods like steel and finished goods was up 8.8 percent in the year through March.
 Wholesale rice prices were up 33.2 percent, a leap that has particularly alarmed Chinese authorities.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In China food prices, the biggest component of the consumer price index, were up 7.9 percent last month. Rice and grains rose 10.8 percent. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); COAL PRICES (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); COAL MARKETS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); POWER PLANTS (67%); COAL INDUSTRY (67%); EMPLOYMENT (64%) Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wage and Price Controls; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Consumer Price Index; Rice; Grain; Food

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (59%) GUANGDONG, CHINA (89%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); EAST CHINA (74%); SOUTH CHINA (74%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



241 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Facing Colombians Is Called Worst In Hemisphere

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 10 

 BODY:
Colombia's drug wars have created the largest crisis for civilians in the Americas, driving two million people from their homes and threatening Indian tribes with extinction, a United nations official said on Monday.
 The official, Jan Egeland, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator, said the country was mired in debt and reluctant to divert military funds to an army of uprooted people escaping the fighting or forced off their land by cocaine traffickers.
 ''Colombia is therefore by far the biggest humanitarian catastrophe of the Western Hemisphere,'' he said at a news conference. 
 ''It has the biggest number of killings in the Western Hemisphere. It's the biggest humanitarian problem, human rights problem, the biggest conflict in the Western hemisphere.''
 He said that only Sudan and Congo had more displaced people.
 In 10 isolated areas of Colombia, which aid groups cannot reach, Indians are trapped in forests and on farms, many of them forced to flee by drug lords or rightist paramilitary gangs, Mr. Egeland said. Others have been killed.
 He said he had spent a month in the area when he was 19 but now ''all my Indian friends have been dispersed or massacred.''
 In 2002, forced internal displacement reached an all-time high of 320,000 people uprooted. The accumulative numbers since then have reached 2 million out of a country of 36 million people, threatening forecasts that Colombia's $77 billion economy will expand some 4 percent this year, he said.
 Many of the displaced are flooding into cities, including many young people with ''no hope, no education,'' making them ripe for recruitment into guerrilla, paramilitary or drug gangs, Mr. Egeland said.
 The uprooted people go to cities in large numbers, where they live in shantytowns, like the one outside Cartagena, which has 10,000 people ''floating in a sea of sewage and garbage.''
 Mr. Egeland said he had discussed with President Alvaro Uribe a new plan to coordinate foreign aid in the country. The United Nations last appealed for $80 million in funds in 2002 but received only $33.6 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); COCAINE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POLITICS (61%); GANGS (59%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Indians, American; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Immigration and Refugees; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Indians, American; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (59%) Jan Egeland

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%) Colombia; Colombia

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



242 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: UBS Fined $100 Million Over Trading of Dollars

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve fined Switzerland's largest bank, UBS, $100 million on Monday, accusing it of violating United States trade sanctions by sending dollars to Cuba, Iran, Libya and Yugoslavia.
 UBS operated a trading center for dollars in its Zurich headquarters under contract with the Federal Reserve of New York, to help circulate new United States notes and retire old ones. 
 A condition of the arrangement was that UBS not deliver or accept dollar notes to or from banks in countries under trade sanctions. 
 In an announcement, the Federal Reserve said that UBS had violated the agreement and that some former officers and employees of the bank, whom it did not identify, intentionally concealed the transactions by falsifying monthly reports made to the Fed. 
 The individuals were not part of the order issued Monday by the Fed, in which UBS agreed to pay a $100 million fine without admitting to the accusations.
 The bank, which is no longer in the business of trading international banknotes, said Monday that some employees had been fired and disciplinary measures had been taken against others.
 The violations reportedly occurred throughout the duration of UBS's contract with the New York Fed, from 1996 through October 2003, when the Fed terminated it.
 The Swiss Federal Banking Commission reprimanded UBS and said it would inspect its operations to ensure that corrective actions were effective.
 ''UBS recognizes that very serious mistakes were made, accepts the sanctions and expresses its regret,'' the bank said. ''It has already instituted corrective and disciplinary measures and has decided to exit the international banknote trading business.''
 Roughly two-thirds of the $669 billion in United States currency circulates abroad. Five other institutions -- American Express, Bank of America, HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland and United Overseas Bank -- operate eight trading centers, known as Extended Custodial Inventory facilities, in Europe and Asia under contract with the Fed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%) International Trade and World Market; Fines (Penalties); Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Currency

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Ubs Ag

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (81%); RBS (LSE) (81%); RBS (AMS) (81%); STAN (LSE) (53%); 2888 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) Cuba; Iran; Libya; Yugoslavia

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



243 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Cut Its Costs, Delta Weighs Bankruptcy Filing

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines, battling with its pilots' union over its effort to cut labor costs, said yesterday that it might have to seek bankruptcy protection unless it can obtain contract concessions. 
 The disclosure, which sent Delta's stock tumbling, came three days after a similar warning by US Airways. 
 Delta's disclosure, made in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, was its first acknowledgment that it might face a Chapter 11 filing. 
 Last month, the airline's chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, insisted that Delta could get through a lingering financial crisis without seeking bankruptcy protection. 
 But in the S.E.C. filing, Delta said it ''will need to pursue alternative courses of action intended to make us viable for the long term'' unless it can make its costs competitive, start earning sustained profits again and get access to capital markets.
 Those alternatives include ''the possibility of seeking to restructure our costs under Chapter 11 restructuring,'' the airline said.
 Shares of Delta fell 84 cents, to $4.54, down about 16 percent. 
 A spokesman for the airline said Delta was not departing from its vow to avoid a bankruptcy filing, but acknowledging that Chapter 11 was an option.
 Industry analysts have been concerned for months about the prospects for Delta, which is based in Atlanta. The airline, the nation's third largest behind American Airlines and United Airlines, lost $383 million in the first quarter, about $33 million more than it had forecast, in large part because of skyrocketing jet fuel costs, which are up more than 40 percent over the last year.
 Delta's two biggest rivals, American and United, have each won significant reductions in labor costs from their unions. American did it last year after threatening a bankruptcy filing, while United negotiated its cuts under Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which it sought in December 2002; it has yet to emerge. Before those cuts, Delta's overall costs were the lowest among the traditional major airlines; now, the airline said, they are among the highest, and roughly double those of low-fare airlines like Southwest Airlines or JetBlue. The situation ''places us at a serious competitive disadvantage,'' Delta said in the filing.
 In November, Delta replaced its chief executive, Leo F. Mullin, with Mr. Grinstein, a board member and former chief executive of Western Airlines. After taking charge on Jan. 1, Mr. Grinstein ordered a top-to-bottom review of the airline's operations, but he said last month that he did not expect to present a restructuring plan to its board before late summer.
 Mr. Mullin's inability to persuade Delta's pilots to grant concessions was seen as a reason why he departed. Delta's contract with the Air Line Pilots Association does not expire until 2005, and the union is not required to hold talks with the company until later this year. The union has said it would be willing to give up a wage increase scheduled for this month and take a 9 percent cut in pay, and reiterated yesterday that it was willing to work with the airline to cut its costs. But Delta is seeking a 30-percent cut in pilots' pay, which the union has called unacceptable.
 Delta's filing with the S.E.C. came as Southwest Airlines formally inaugurated its service to Philadelphia, challenging struggling US Airways in one of its three main hubs (the others are Pittsburgh and Charlotte). 
 US Airways wants its labor unions, which granted two sets of concessions while US Airways was in bankruptcy protection, to give a third round by midsummer; otherwise, it said on Friday, it may have to sell assets or file for bankruptcy again. 
 Only its pilots' union has agreed to negotiate; other unions have said they would be willing to help the airline save money, but not reopen their contracts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AIR FARES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); JET FUEL (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); BOARD CHANGES (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Pilots; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Wages and Salaries; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) Air Line Pilots Assn; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



244 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Making the World Safer, One Client at a Time

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
Denzel Washington may owe his life to Chris Palmer.
 Unlike Mr. Washington, who stars in 20th Century Fox's new action film ''Man on Fire,'' Mr. Palmer is not a Hollywood leading man. Balding, bearded and heavy-set, with a passing resemblance to Orson Welles, Mr. Palmer, 41, is director of risk control for the Albert G. Ruben unit of the insurance broker Aon; Ruben provides security for film studios. 
 The opening credits of ''Man on Fire,'' which centers on a kidnapping plot in Mexico City, state that a kidnapping takes place every 60 minutes in Latin America and that 70 percent of the victims do not survive. According to Mr. Palmer, 10 to 20 kidnappings occur each day in Mexico City alone, making it second only to Medellin, the drug center in Colombia, as the kidnapping capital of the world.
 Working with Giuliani Protocol, an Aon subsidiary formed in partnership with the firm run by the former mayor of New York, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Palmer looked after Mr. Washington and his fellow filmmakers in Mexico City in 2002 by providing drivers and bodyguards.
 He also established ''safe zones'' in the city so that the crew could have secure access to restaurants, dry cleaners and other retail stores, many of them with their own armed guards. The filming was completed without incident. ''There have been no kidnappings on any of my movies,'' Mr. Palmer said.
 In February, Mr. Palmer and his colleagues at Albert G. Ruben released an icon-studded map with the title Risks in Global Filmmaking. The map rates threats to health and safety in every country. Although the map was produced for the Hollywood clientele, its lessons hold for most business travelers. 
 ''Anyone in a Fortune 500 company is definitely at risk when they travel today, especially if they're with a company that's well known overseas, like an I.B.M. or a Coca-Cola,'' Mr. Palmer said.
 Worldwide political and economic turmoil is causing leading security firms to offer services similar to Mr. Palmer's. In March, Kroll, a publicly traded risk consultant, formed a London subsidiary for corporate and government clients headed by a former Special Air Service officer.
 ''The intense hostility that corporations and government agencies face in diverse world regions has created an unprecedented demand for services to ensure the security of people, property and operations,'' said Michael Cherkasky, Kroll's president and chief operating officer. 
 Frequent overseas business travelers like Steve Cone, head of global marketing for Citigroup's global investment management unit, attest to the need for professional help. On Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Cone evacuated his office in 7 World Trade Center shortly before the building collapsed. Since then, he has traveled widely with a new wariness. 
 ''People need to be cognizant of what's safe behavior in a particular country and what isn't,'' he said. He says he reads the fine print in his passport on how to dress and act overseas.
 Mr. Palmer is a kind of uber-overseas business traveler who has worked in more than 70 countries, often spending months at film locations. Born in Costa Rica and the son of a former United States Army helicopter pilot and Central Intelligence Agency operative, he is certified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in emergency response to terrorism and is a member of the State Department's Overseas Security Advisory Council.
 His global-risks map highlights both obvious and not-so-obvious dangers. It features icons with a five-point scale covering crime, organized crime and corruption, kidnapping, disease and medical care. Although the map includes terrorism alerts in its monthly updates, a separate Aon unit produces another map devoted to terrorism risks.
 Mr. Palmer claims that most American business travelers remain blithely unaware of the dangers they face around the world, apart from those in obvious trouble spots like Iraq. ''Most of what Americans know about safety risks overseas comes from CNN and the newspapers,'' he said. ''But the U.S. media only covers about 1 percent of what is happening around the world in terms of terrorism, crime and organized crime.''
 He urges clients to discard outdated assumptions and face up to uncomfortable new realities. For example, he says, kidnappers in Mexico City are just as likely to pursue business travelers as rich industrialists or movie stars. ''Anyone who travels with credit cards and A.T.M. cards, which is just about everybody, is at risk in Mexico City,'' he said. ''The bad guys kidnap you and hold you until they get your PIN numbers and empty out your accounts.'' 
 Other places with a high risk of kidnapping, according to Mr. Palmer, include Argentina, Brazil, India and the Philippines. 
 Another growing threat is street crime. He says Johannesburg has the highest car-jacking rate in the world and, in part because of the prevalence of that crime, the second-highest murder rate. Organized crime and official corruption are rampant in Eastern Europe, Russia and other nations in the Commonwealth of Independent States. According to Mr. Palmer, the Russian mafia's stranglehold means that travelers run the risk not just of abductions but also demands for bribes and protection money. 
 Inadequate medical care can also pose a lethal hazard, and not just in the impoverished nations of sub-Saharan Africa. Malta, a popular tourist destination, has three functioning ambulances, Mr. Palmer says, and Barbados one. American travelers should also be vigilant about outbreaks of infectious diseases, he says, citing the spread of malaria in Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador and Peru and recent outbreaks of hepatitis A and B and of polio in Russia and Kazakhstan.
 One bright spot on the global-risks map is Morocco, where the rating of the kidnap-and-ransom risk was recently lowered to 3 from 5. ''The threat has dropped substantially because the Moroccan government has worked with the U.S. government to root out a home-grown terrorist group inspired by Al Qaeda,'' Mr. Palmer said.
 Among the havens are Iceland and Greenland, which benefit from sparse populations and remoteness, and Canada, which has remained immune from terrorist threats. No fool, Mr. Palmer often speaks French when checking into hotels. ''People think I'm a Canadian,'' he says.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Creating a Celluloid World In a High-Risk One''A map highlighting the level of threat that film crews may face while producing movies overseas was released by Aon/Albert G. Ruben, an insurance broker for the entertainment industry. The data were compiled by analysts looking at information from government and nongovernment sources.Risks to filmmakers as they shoot abroadData are as of January 2004 and include risks of crime and corruption, kidnapping and ransom, disease and access to reliable medicare.Map of the earth shows location of risk by categories of:Low to moderateMediumHigh to very highRiskiest countries, by categoryDISEASE RISKCongo (Brazzaville and Kinshasa)LaosKazakhstanThailandNigerMEDICAL CARE RISKTurkmenistanSolomon IslandsMyanmarLiberiaEquatorial GuineaCRIME RISKBrazilColombiaCongo (Brazzaville and Kinshasa)El SalvadorGeorgiaORGANIZED CRIME AND CORRUPTION RISKColombiaGeorgiaRussiaNigeriaSomaliaKIDNAPPING AND RANSOM RISKColombiaPhilippinesMexico (Mexico City)AlgeriaGeorgia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (60%); RETAILERS (51%) Motion Pictures; Security and Warning Systems; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Ruben, Albert G, Co; Aon Corp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (67%); MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (56%) Harry III Hurt; Chris Palmer; Denzel Washington

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



245 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: The Mixed-Up Politics of the Deficit

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich. 
Robert B. Reich, the author of ''Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America,'' was secretary of labor from 1993 to 1997.

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass. 

 BODY:
If soaring deficits are such a big problem, why haven't long-term interest rates also risen? Could it be that John Kerry is wrong when he says that the Bush administration's deficits threaten to become a ''fiscal cancer that will erode any recovery and threaten the prospect of lasting prosperity'' -- and Dick Cheney was right when, according to former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, he said that ''deficits don't matter''?
 It's unlikely. The more plausible explanation has more to do with politics than economics: the parties have reversed roles, or at least perceptions of them have changed drastically. The Democrats have become the eat-your-spinach party, preaching the virtues of fiscal restraint, while Republicans invite Americans to a free lunch. 
 The evidence is compelling. In the last three years, upper-income Americans have been treated to vast tax cuts, with promises of more, while government spending has ballooned. This year's deficit, according to the White House's latest estimate, will be a record $521 billion -- an estimated 4.2 percent of the total economy. If President Bush succeeds in making his tax cuts permanent, future deficits will be much larger.
 According to most mainstream economists -- and the stock market, which yesterday dropped below 10,000 for the first time in six months -- a day of reckoning awaits. No less an authority than Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve and a former enthusiast of the Bush tax cuts, has warned that the deficits pose ''a significant obstacle to long-term stability.''
 The Fed is now widely expected to raise short-term rates at its meeting next month, and the yield on 10-year Treasury notes has been inching higher. But if the market were behaving rationally, long-term rates would already be far higher in anticipation of an interest-rate crunch. Who in their right mind would lend dollars today, to be repaid in 3 or 5 or 10 years, without insisting that debtors pay substantial interest?
 John Kerry's economic plan -- rolling back the Bush tax cut for people earning more than $200,000 and re-establishing strict rules requiring that any new spending be offset with other spending cuts or new revenue -- is based on this view. Yet so far, the vast increase in government borrowing hasn't affected long-term rates that much.
 Capital markets do not always behave rationally, of course. Perhaps bond traders just aren't paying attention to the gathering storm. Maybe they've been distracted by the Fed's low short-term rates. Maybe they're Republicans.
 Another explanation is more consistent with economic and political rationality. Bill Clinton, and now John Kerry, have taught the bond traders on Wall Street an important and comforting lesson: no matter how big deficits grow under Republican presidents, eventually a Democratic president will come along to clean up the mess. That confidence is helping to keep long-term rates down, despite the current out-of-control deficits.
 More than a decade ago, the federal deficit was more than $300 billion -- about 5 percent of the economy. President Bill Clinton and Congressional Democrats reversed this profligate trend by slashing spending and raising taxes. The strategy was hard to swallow, and not at all popular -- not a single Republican member of Congress voted for Mr. Clinton's 1993 budget. Some of us in the president's cabinet thought he had gone further than he needed to; there was too little money left for education, job training and health care.
 But there is no disputing that the plan had the intended effect. Deficits that had ballooned under Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush were brought firmly under control. Bond traders breathed great sighs of relief. Wall Street beamed.
 Mr. Kerry has wisely and responsibly decided to take the same route. If he becomes president next January, he will inherit a budget mess not unlike that which Mr. Clinton inherited. And Mr. Kerry has already committed himself to following Mr. Clinton's lead and imposing fiscal restraint. He has scaled back some of his more ambitious spending plans, and has somberly told his Democratic audiences that the country must get its fiscal house in order before addressing the larger needs of society.
 Undoubtedly, Mr. Kerry's resolve has contributed to the bond traders' calm. In the event that Mr. Kerry is not elected and President Bush gets a second term, the fiscal picture will become substantially worse. But bond traders will still take comfort in the knowledge that another Democrat will eventually come along to fix it.
 You see, Democrats and Republicans are engaged in the economic equivalent of Nixon going to China: Republican presidents can get away with utterly irresponsible fiscal policies because there's no one to their right who will make too much trouble for them. Democratic presidents can get away with fiscal austerity because there's no one to their left who will make their life too difficult. But the irony should not be missed. John Kerry's promise of fiscal responsibility might just save George Bush's presidency.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bill Russell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BOND MARKETS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (53%) Taxation

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%) Robert B Reich; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



246 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: OCCUPATION

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: The Marines Enter Falluja, With Peace Their Aim

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

DATELINE: FALLUJA, Iraq, May 10 

 BODY:
In a tiny, carefully choreographed convoy, and with not a shot fired, American marines on Monday made their way into the embattled city of Falluja, where a two-star general met for 25 minutes with his anointed local leaders on sullenly quiet streets.
 Whether the meeting was a historic breakthrough, as the marines maintained afterward, or just another step in the Americans' effort to bring some sort of order to a country they have conquered but not fully subdued, remained to be seen.
 What was clear was that it was another shift in the American effort to get control of the situation -- this time, perhaps, by attaching itself to whatever local authority might be seen as legitimate, even if it was a holdover from Saddam Hussein's rule. Similar efforts appeared to be under way with the Shiite tribal leadership in the south in an attempt to undermine the insurgency led by the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr. 
 The foray into the city, the product of intensive and frequently revised planning, was in stark contrast to the American approach through the past month.
 The rebellious city had been under military siege since April 5, after four American contractors were brutally slain in an ambush and their bodies defiled by a mob. Hundreds of local citizens and dozens of marines have been killed in street fighting. 
 But on Monday, the tough talk the marines had made over the previous month -- that the killers must be turned over, that foreign fighters the marines believe have been holed up in the city must be surrendered and that all heavy weapons must be turned over -- was noticeably gone.
 Instead, Maj. Gen. James N. Mattis, the commander of the First Marine Division, told 14 sheiks and several other civic leaders about $40 million the marines had set aside for rebuilding the city, chunks of which have been destroyed in the fighting. He talked of ''making Falluja a great city once again.''
 The general's earnestness was also illustrated by some 2,000 wheelbarrows piled up in pieces at their negotiation place for a community cleanup -- although, in truth, much of the city consists of dirt.
 The plan for the convoy had gone through a number of permutations. At first it was seen by planners as a show of strength, with preparations worthy of a major invasion, including tank support and air cover -- a ''thunder run,'' as they called it, into the city.
 The operation was revised, scaled down, postponed and, apparently, nearly abandoned.
 Then, at a three-hour meeting on Sunday afternoon, the plan was suddenly revived at the request of the city's new American-appointed overseer, Muhammad Latif, a Sunni Muslim and onetime intelligence colonel in the old Iraqi Army who was said to have been fired and jailed by Mr. Hussein after going to staff college in Britain.
 Mr. Latif, in his usual European-cut gray suit, had played a behind-the-scenes role in negotiations with the Americans until they appointed the first general to head a new Iraqi security force in Falluja, Maj. Gen. Jasim Muhammad Saleh. The very picture of a Hussein-era officer, complete with thick mustache and old green uniform with swords and eagles on his shoulders, General Saleh was found to have been a commander of the feared Republican Guard and was quickly replaced. 
 The new version of the foray into the city was evidently intended to reinforce Mr. Latif's grip on power. The streets were lined with his men. 
 But the shops along the way were closed and deserted, and only a few men were out to watch, clustered in small groups, arms folded over their chests. They stared glumly at the joint convoy of 10 American armored vehicles and Humvees, accompanied by an equal number of white Nissan pickup trucks piled high with Iraqi police officers, the lead truck waving an old-style Iraqi flag. 
 The convoy went only a short distance into town, stopping at the mayor's office for tea, and did not venture into the tough neighborhoods where the Americans had fought insurgents.
 ''They don't like us,'' an American marine observed, looking over his machine gun in the turret of an armored vehicle.
 Although the convoy itself was small, the security, under the direction of the Third Battalion, Fourth Marines, regarded as a particularly tough outfit and headed by Lt. Col. B. P. McCoy, was heavy. Two companies were posted as a quick-reaction force in case of trouble, and Predator drones and combat aircraft hovered overhead. 
 The troops gathered overnight and slept in a stony field, moving out at dawn. General Mattis, a combative commander who is revered by his men as a kind of warrior monk, had earlier laid out a battle plan to conquer the insurgents. Now he found himself in the role of peacemaker.
 ''My fine young sailors and marines,'' he said to the men in battle gear gathered around him after the convoy's safe return. ''Sometimes history is made in small, dusty places like this. Today was good history because we did not get into a fight. Not a shot was fired. We did not come here to fight these people, we came here to free them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Maj. Gen. James N. Mattis, the commander of the First Marine Division, and Falluja's mayor, Muhammad Ibrahim, after their meeting yesterday. The marines had stopped at the mayor's office for tea. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin/Reflex News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); SHOOTINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMIES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORISM (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (52%) John Kifner; James (Maj Gen) Mattis; Muhammad Latif

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



247 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Faulting the Administration, Kerry Vows to Rein In Health Care Premiums

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: EDINBORO, Pa., May 10 

 BODY:
Saying the Bush administration had failed to react to spiraling health care premiums, Senator John Kerry vowed on Monday to cut those costs by about 10 percent, or $1,000, per family.
 ''Mine is a plan that will cut soaring premiums, cut the waste, cut the greed, and cut Americans a good deal,'' Mr. Kerry, the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, told several hundred people, of his proposal to have the federal government assume the responsibility for catastrophic care, a move intended to reduce health insurance costs.
 ''It's a plan that finally makes our health care affordable, which also makes our businesses all across America more competitive,'' he said to an audience, which included many nurses and nursing students, at a local university here in Pennsylvania's northwest corner. 
 With his speech, Mr. Kerry began a four-day focus on health care, reprising proposals he made during the Democratic primary even as Washington and much of the rest of the country remained consumed by the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal.
 While the policy is not new, the senator's approach showed how the Kerry campaign plans to integrate health insurance into its larger economic message about creating jobs.
 Instead of talking about universal access and the estimated 43 million uninsured Americans, a rallying cry for liberals concerned about the poor, Mr. Kerry emphasized costs, a hot-button issue for both middle-class voters and businesses. He stood in front of a banner emblazoned with the slogan, ''Affordable health care means a stronger America.''
 Sharing hard-luck stories of people he had met at campaign events who lack health insurance or spend their monthly income at their local pharmacy, Mr. Kerry added: ''Today, a regular checkup is emptying the family checkbook. Waiting for a doctor's bill is causing as much anxiety as waiting for a diagnosis.''
 Sarah Bianchi, Mr. Kerry's policy director, said, ''We're making this a major part of our economic contrast with Bush.'' The campaign issued a 13-page report filled with grim statistics, most from a recent report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, to buttress the argument that Mr. Bush has done little to control health care costs.
 Among the bullet points: premiums, which include the costs paid by both workers and their employees, jumped 41 percent, to $9,549 from $6,772, from 2000 to 2003; premiums increased 13.9 percent last year while earnings rose 3.1 percent; and spending on prescriptions has doubled since 1998 to $184 billion. 
 The report also said that for the first time, the typical person had to work 31 days to pay for health care, and that America spent more per capita on health care -- $4,887 -- than nine industrialized democracies, including Switzerland, Canada, Sweden, Japan and New Zealand.
 Mr. Kerry's focus on health care was amplified by other Democrats, with Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, one of the senator's Democratic primary rivals, accusing the Bush administration of protecting the pharmaceutical and health insurance industries.
 The Bush campaign accused Mr. Kerry of skipping votes, while he has been campaigning, on both the Medicare prescription drug bill and legislation to curb medical malpractice suits. Bush aides also circulated criticism of Mr. Kerry's health care plan previously made by Mr. Gephardt.
 Responding to Mr. Kerry, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, said in the Bush campaign's daily conference call, that ''the president with his leadership has tried to address some of the areas where spiraling costs occur.'' Mr. Thomas said many indicators cited by the Democrats had been rising steadily for 10 or 20 years. Mr. Kerry's plan ''isn't reducing the cost,'' he said, ''it's simply shifting from one pocket, payment at work, to the other pocket, payment in taxes.''
 Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's communications director, noted that the Democrat had returned to Capitol Hill to try to block the Bush administration's prescription drug bill, but ''when that effort failed, and it was clear the bill would pass, Kerry felt it was more important to get back on the campaign trail and talk to seniors about their needs and how to address those needs.''
 Mr. Kerry accused the Bush administration of lacking a plan to reduce costs or expand health insurance coverage, saying, ''You almost never hear the words 'health care' come out of the president's mouth.''
 In contrast, Mr. Kerry plans to talk about little else this week, here in Pennsylvania and in Kentucky, Florida and Arkansas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (63%); PHARMACIES (63%); SCANDALS (52%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Edinboro (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



248 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Festivals of Certitude In Land of Red and Blue

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., May 8 

 BODY:
About 500 people, with plates of jambalaya and peppery beans still before them, rose and cheered Friday as Senator John Kerry was escorted along a security corridor carved through the enthusiastic throng.
 To applause and angry shouts, Mr. Kerry, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, told them not to be discouraged by Bush campaign efforts to paint him as an out-of-touch Northeast liberal. ''You know why they're doing that?'' he said. ''Because he doesn't have a record to run away from.''
 Last Tuesday, in an aging ice hockey arena on Cincinnati's north side, a banner saying ''America: Safer, Stronger, Better'' hovered above the floodlighted stage, where a grinning President Bush scanned the crowd of more than 10,000 cheering Republicans. 
 ''You've got to get out there and turn out the vote,'' Mr. Bush told them. ''That's what we call the grass roots. I've come to fertilize the grass roots.''
 It is accepted wisdom that America is split nearly in half between red states and blue states, Republican and Democrat. But to get a taste of red and blue in their purest forms, it helps to attend a rally for each side and listen to each standard-bearer carry on a conversation with the converted.
 Only then does it become apparent how truly different these two Americas are, and how in other ways they are oddly alike. 
 Each side focuses on themes of war and prosperity, each praises American troops and each pledges allegiance to the flag. And each has an almost unshakable certainty that its cause is the nation's only hope, that its party is the party of optimism, so unlike the other side. 
 Bursts of Pavlovian anger are easily produced with the dropping of a name: Hillary Rodham Clinton, say, for one side, or John Ashcroft for the other. And all of this overheated fractiousness is presided over by teams of political and media professionals, hovering at the periphery.
 A Cajun band, complete with fiddle and diatonic accordion, pumped a sweet rhythm over the grounds of the Louisiana governor's mansion as a furious golden sunset outlined Huey P. Long's towering state Capitol down by the river.
 Signs proclaimed ''Sheet Metal Workers for John Kerry!'' ''Louisiana is Kerry Country!'' ''Fermez Le Bush! Geaux John Kerry!'' 
 The dress code, for the most part, was blue jeans or canvas pants beneath union T-shirts or well-worn polo shirts. The crowd was a sturdy mix of black and white faces. 
 Billye Burns, a retired teacher from West Monroe, had driven more than two hours to see Mr. Kerry in Baton Rouge. Ms. Burns, who is black, sat at a prime table marked ''white ticket holders only.'' White tickets, she explained, were for those who were active in the party.
 Ward Reilly, of Baton Rouge, nodded thoughtfully over his plate of jambalaya. ''I'm for John Kerry, but to be truthful, I don't like the guy that much myself,'' he said. ''He's a typical Washington insider. But we've got to get Bush out of the White House.''
 He said he gravitated toward the Kerry camp because he, too, had served in Vietnam. Kerry campaign staff members had, at first, tried to stop him from bringing in his own placard, ''Winter soldiers for John Kerry,'' a reference to those who, unlike Thomas Paine's summer soldiers, had served their country when times were tough.
 At political rallies in America these days, more than ever, everything is choreographed by the candidates, down to the ''homemade'' signs provided by the campaigns that participants are allowed to wave.
 Chuck Reed, surveying the crowd from beneath a black cowboy hat, was also drawn to Mr. Kerry because of a Vietnam connection. Both men had been active in Vietnam Veterans Against the War. ''We have lost the moral high ground in Iraq,'' Mr. Reed said.
 His wife, Terri Forrest Reed, nodded from beneath a straw sun hat. ''I'm a Republican,'' Ms. Reed whispered. ''Don't tell anybody.''
 Not only that, she said, but as president of Thomas Jefferson Butler Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, she is tired of the Bush administration claiming it stands for Southern values. 
 In fact, Ms. Reed said, Mr. Bush reminds her of no one so much as a president who she said once betrayed the Constitution.
 ''That's right,'' she said. ''Abraham Lincoln.''
 Her husband grimaced. ''I believe I'd have said Richard Nixon,'' he said.
 No, Ms. Reed said, remember: Lincoln suspended habeas corpus in the Civil War. And now Mr. Bush is using the war on terror as an excuse to chisel away at cherished American liberties, she said. 
 ''I am so ashamed of my party,'' Ms. Reed said, ''so deeply ashamed of my party.''
 Smiling, waving, reaching out to shake as many hands as he could, Mr. Kerry made his way down the security corridor. 
 He drew applause when he spoke of the need for cheaper health care and better public education. But the most enthusiastic cheers came when he attacked the administration's handling of the war in Iraq and when he promised -- three times -- to do something to protect Louisiana's wetlands. 
 As for the apology from Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld for the abuse of Iraqi prisoners, it was simply not enough, Mr. Kerry said.
 ''I don't think Harry Truman had a sign on the desk of his presidency that said, 'The buck stops at the Pentagon,' '' said Mr. Kerry, whose every word was translated into sign language by an interpreter.
 At the arena in Cincinnati, home to an Anaheim Mighty Ducks farm team, the entertainment for the Bush rally was provided by a country and western performer and a marching band. The attire leaned toward dark suits punctuated with red, white and blue accessories like oversize hats and patriotic scarves. 
 There was a huge ''W'' on all four faces of the scoreboard high above the arena floor, its clock set at 20:04 and the two teams, labeled ''George'' and ''Bush'' tied at 43. When giant screens showed the commander in chief's bus arriving, the music switched to pop, the lights dimmed, an American flag the size of a free-throw lane unfurled from the rafters and multicolored spotlights strafed the overwhelmingly white crowd.
 Barb Hartzell of Piqua, Ohio, was part of a group of 20 who got tickets from a conservative advocacy group. ''We have to help the president finish the job he started,'' Ms. Hartzell said.
 Her group and hundreds of others were clustered along a waist-high metal barricade forming a security chute from the arena's back entrance to the raised stage. A black ramp, about two feet off the ground, allowed the president to stride like a giant through the crowd. 
 ''We are for the president, absolutely, 100 percent,'' said Angee Carruthers, standing beside her friend, Mandy Knechtly. Both wore T-shirts proclaiming, ''Half of my heart is in Iraq,'' a reference to their husbands stationed there.
 Ms. Knechtly said they hoped to get a picture with the president, so she could show her husband why she was missing his weekly phone call from Iraq for the first time. She hopes he will be home by October, when she is expecting their first child.
 Mr. Bush stormed the stage without preamble. The crowd reacted to almost every line.
 ''We've got a mission to make this country as hopeful as it can possibly be.'' Cheers.
 ''Now, John Kerry,'' he began. Deafening boos. ''He's been in Washington a long time.'' Laughs. ''He's been there long enough to take both sides of about every issue.'' Wild laughter. 
 There was no translator on the stage for the deaf as the president went through his campaign points: Iraq has hit a tough patch but is on the right path. The economy is finally coming back, thanks to the administration's tax cuts. Democrats are pessimists. Let Mr. Kerry into the White House and your taxes will go up. 
 ''The good news is, we're not gonna let him raise your taxes.'' Cheers. 
 On the way out of the arena, Mr. Bush spotted Ms. Carruthers and Ms. Knechtly.
 ''He was so kind and sincere when he spoke to us,'' Ms. Carruthers said. The president posed for two pictures with them. Ms. Carruthers said, ''He made me feel confident that our troops would not be there any longer than necessary.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE DEMOCRATS -- Some 500 people welcomed Mr. Kerry in Louisiana. Said one, ''We've got to get Bush out of the White House.''
IN BATON ROUGE, LA. -- Police officers took to rooftops on Friday to provide security for John Kerry's rally at the governor's mansion.
THE CHALLENGER -- Senator Kerry urged supporters to ignore criticism from Mr. Bush, saying, ''He doesn't have a record to run away from.'' (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
THE REPUBLICANS -- In the arena, about 10,000 people greeted Mr. Bush. ''We are for the president, absolutely, 100 percent,'' one said.
IN CINCINNATI -- Secret Service agents scanned Bush supporters last Tuesday before a campaign event at the Cincinnati Gardens arena.
 THE PRESIDENT -- Mr. Bush took the stage and addressed supporters in a campaign speech, exhorting them to ''get out there and turn the vote.'' (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); ICE HOCKEY (70%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (64%); COUNTRY MUSIC (60%); TERRORISM (59%); LIBERALISM (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; States (US); United States Economy; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; Terrorism; News and News Media

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Rick Lyman; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; John (Atty Gen) Ashcroft

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



249 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; TRACK AND FIELD

LENGTH: 2311 words

HEADLINE: Team Ethiopia Dazzles In Going the Distance

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, May 10 

 BODY:
Even blank cartridges for a starter's pistol were not to be used extravagantly at the national track and field championships here in one of the world's poorest nations. Until the concluding session of the five-day meet Saturday, races began with an official standing behind the runners, where they could not see him, holding a flag aloft and yelling, ''Go.''
 Sometimes the competitors heard the command. Frequently, they did not or grew uncertain, starting, stopping and starting again. False starts were declared regularly.
 Ethiopia's national stadium lacks a working scoreboard, sophisticated timing devices, computerized results and starting blocks for each of the eight lanes. Competitors shared one javelin and one unyielding pole in the pole vault; the winning jump fell a quarter-inch short of 11 feet -- more than nine feet short of the world record. 
 A number of athletes wore no shoes, and many had never before run on the stadium's rubberized track, the only all-weather oval in a country of 66 million people. This paucity of equipment and expertise, though, did not dampen the celebratory mood. Distance running is the specialty here, not sprints and field events. As the competition ended, some of the world's most breathtaking runners circled the worn track, while a band played in the infield. Spectators crowded into the stadium, and younger competitors from the country's 11 regions applauded, sang and danced in the grandstand.
 Despite having fewer elite runners and paltry resources, Ethiopia has outstripped its East African neighbor Kenya as the greatest distance-running country at major international competitions. The reasons include a desire to escape poverty, a temperate climate and high altitude, and the tight control exerted by the government on runners' trips out of the country. The result is that while Kenyans continue to dominate individual marathons in places like New York City and Boston, the Ethiopians have begun winning more team medals at the Olympics and at world track championships. At the world cross-country championships in March, Ethiopia staggered its opponents by winning 14 of 18 available medals. Another medal haul is expected at the Olympics in Athens in August.
 ''We don't need a starter's gun,'' said Haile Gebrselassie, a two-time men's Olympic champion at 10,000 meters (6.2 miles), who has set 17 world records and is considered by many the most versatile runner in history. ''Guns are only for fighting.''

Socially Responsible
 Beyond sport, Gebrselassie and several of the other top Ethiopian stars appear to have a strong sense of social responsibility. They participate in H.I.V./AIDS awareness programs, invest in schools and business enterprises and even affect the way the roles of women are perceived. The runners represent a fierce national pride in Ethiopia.
 These stars also provide the most visible examples of achievement in a nation considered among the four poorest in the world, where the gross domestic product is $110 per capita, and the backbone of the economy, subsistence farming, is vulnerable to cycles of drought and famine. A mural of Gebrselassie on a building near the stadium exhorts, ''You can.''
 ''They are sportsmen and women, committed ambassadors who have made it in life,'' Brook Hailu, Ethiopia's deputy ambassador to the United States, said in a telephone interview. ''Most of them are on a sound financial basis. They are positively engaged in investment and trade activities. Our image in the 70's and 80's was down the drain, synonymous with poverty and drought. Now they play a role in giving us a good positive image.''
 When Ethiopia's small team of 26 runners returned home from the Olympics in Sydney, Australia, with eight medals, including four golds, an estimated one million people greeted them here in the capital during a jubilant parade from the airport.
 The social event of last summer in Addis Ababa was the June wedding of the reigning men's Olympic marathon champion, Gezahegne Abera, to Elfenesh Alemu, who finished second in the women's race at the Boston Marathon last month.
 The wedding was at the national stadium, and the train on the bride's dress circled the quarter-mile track and was carried by scores of schoolchildren. 
 The event also served to raise awareness in a country where 2.2 million people suffer from H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, or from full-blown AIDS, and where one million children have been orphaned by the disease, government officials said. According to the United Nations, two-thirds of the Addis Ababa residents who die between the ages of 20 and 54 succumb to AIDS-related illnesses.
 The bride's train was printed with red AIDS ribbons and was sectioned into 250 pieces that were signed by the V.I.P. guests with safe-sex pledges. The pieces were then handed out to schoolchildren for display in classrooms.
 ''We wanted to help young people and students be aware of the epidemic in this part of the world,'' Abera said. ''We know we have problems in Ethiopia, and we take it as our responsibility to help whatever problems we are facing.''
 He and his wife have also contributed money to AIDS orphans and to famine relief efforts. Derartu Tulu, the two-time Olympic champion at 10,000 meters, helps to support an orphanage. She has built a hotel in the Arsi region south of here and has invested in a sorghum and wheat farm. Gebrselassie has built two elementary schools outside of Addis Ababa and has constructed two office buildings in the capital, one of which includes a cafe, cinema and health club.
 Many African runners experience an anonymous brilliance in the West. They are so great and numerous that they can be perceived as interchangeable, faceless. Gebrselassie, 32, has transcended this obscurity with his rarefied skill, charisma and openness. He has become fluent in English and has used his stature and sense of accountability to take a visible role in social policy. He is perhaps the country's most popular person, and with an income that reaches $1 million a year in prize money and endorsements, one of the richest.
 In recent days, Gebrselassie has moved into a palatial home in the hills above Addis Ababa, with marble floors, a swimming pool and Italian fixtures. The house is surrounded by high walls and an electric fence. It is on a steep road in a wealthy neighborhood, just above other houses made of mud or corrugated tin.
 Gebrselassie, his wife, Alem, and their three daughters could easily afford a life of splendid isolation, but he employs 260 people in his real estate company and other endeavors. He plans to build more schools and has begun campaigning for higher prices for coffee, Ethiopia's main export, while also seeking to expand European markets for teff, the indigenous grain. His country faces a bleak future if more than half the population remains illiterate and AIDS expands in dispiriting numbers, Gebrselassie said.
 ''When I help people, I help myself,'' he said. ''I can't change a country as a single person, but I have to do my part.''

A Political Future?
 He may seek political office after he retires, Gebrselassie said, and some believe that he could one day become Ethiopia's president. Perhaps not, he said, because people have only a fleeting interest in athletes. Still, he thinks of things that he would like to change.
 ''Maybe if I become president, the next morning everyone will start to blame Haile Gebrselassie,'' he said, speaking of himself in the third person. ''I will tell everyone they have to work and go to school. If one will not work, he will be a criminal.''
 Gebrselassie's own success has become a contagion, inspiring other runners just as his athletic forebears once motivated him. Abebe Bikila won Ethiopia's and Africa's first Olympic gold medal when he finished first in the marathon as he ran barefoot through Rome at the 1960 Olympics. Bikila won the marathon again at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, and his countryman Mamo Wolde won the event at the 1968 Games in Mexico City. Gebrselassie listened on the radio as Miruts Yifter won the 5,000 meters (3.1 miles) and 10,000 meters at the Moscow Games in 1980. 
 When Gebrselassie and Tulu won the men's and women's 10,000 meters at the 2000 Games in Sydney, a teenager named Kenenisa Bekele watched on television. He lived in the Arsi region in the southern highlands, where his heroes had also grown up. He was not a serious runner then, but a teacher told him he had talent.
 ''I was so happy that they won the Olympics for Ethiopia,'' Bekele said. ''I thought, maybe for the future, I'd like to try running.''
 Now, at 21, he has become a multiple winner of the world cross-country championships. And last summer, he defeated his idol, Gebrselassie, to win the 10,000 meters at the world track championships in Paris.
 Olympic victories for Ethiopia have also carried social implications. When Tulu was a girl in the village of Bekoji, her mother discouraged her from running. It was taboo for a girl to turn in her skirt for a pair of shorts, Tulu said.
 ''She didn't want people to say that her daughter had gone crazy,'' Tulu said.
 But the daughter persisted, and when Tulu won the 10,000 meters at the Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, in 1992, she became the first black African woman to capture a gold medal. After giving birth to a daughter, Tulu again won the 10,000 at the 2000 Olympics. She could win a third time in Athens.
 Now, she said, ''it is no problem'' for women in her village to become runners. Another woman from Bekoji, Fatuma Roba, won the marathon at the 1996 Games in Atlanta. Two younger cousins of Tulu's, Tirunesh and Ejigayehu Dibaba, are expected to challenge for Olympic medals this summer.
 A shrine to Tulu's victory in Barcelona sits outside the national stadium. While younger runners are inspired by her, Tulu and others said, women in the larger Ethiopian society, often marginalized, have also gained resolve from her accomplishments.
 ''There are people in Ethiopia working for respect of women's rights,'' Tulu said. ''I can't say that my success has helped them, but it has helped women to fight, to become what they want.''

Limited Resources
 Ethiopia has developed only about 60 elite runners, compared with several hundred by Kenya, according to running experts. The Ethiopian Olympic Committee receives $35,000 a year from the government, and in an Olympic year, corporate sponsorships can push the budget to $230,000, Assefa Mamo, president of the Olympic Committee, said. In comparison, the United States Olympic Committee's annual budget is $125 million.
 Bureaucratic meddling and corruption have sometimes impeded Ethiopian success, according to Ethiopians and Westerners with knowledge of the track system. But 13 years after a brutal Communist regime was ousted, and four years after a border dispute with neighboring Eritrea ended, Ethiopia's running program is thriving.
 Running is a national pastime in a country where the altitude -- Addis Ababa sits at 7,300 feet -- helps to increase oxygen-carrying capacity. The Ethiopian diet consists heavily of teff, which is rich in easily assimilated protein and has more iron, calcium and potassium than wheat. 
 While the Kenyan runners, for instance, frequently run in Europe and the United States, Ethiopians concentrate primarily on major international track championships. To leave the country, runners must obtain exit visas, which are closely controlled by the government's track federation.
 A life of deprivation and a willingness to endure suffering also seem to play a role in accepting and completing the exhaustive training for elite distance running, Gebrselassie and other athletes said. As a boy, he said, he ran to and from school and spent up to three hours on sojourns to gather water during the dry season.
 ''I've been running since I was 4 or 5,'' Gebrselassie said. ''For us, life was a kind of sport.''
 Runners who show promise in regional competitions are signed and paid salaries by clubs representing the prison police, a bank association, an electric company and a cement factory. 
 The first trip to run in Addis Ababa can be unnerving though. Running barefoot, Berhane Aregaui, who is 21, won a regional 5,000-meters competition at the national stadium on Thursday. For the first time, she competed on a synthetic track and before a large crowd.
 ''I was scared of the audience, but the track was fine,'' Aregaui said.

Life-Changing Races
 Success on the track can bring a dramatic change to modest lives. Three years ago, Tirunesh Dibaba was living without electricity in a two-room home in the village of Bekoji. After completing sixth grade, she moved to Addis Ababa to join a sister and Tulu, her cousin. But Dibaba said she showed up late for seventh-grade registration and, unable to continue in school, dedicated herself to running. Last summer in Paris, at 17, she became the youngest track athlete to win a world championship, finishing first in the 5,000 meters.
 For her victory, Dibaba won $60,000 in prize money. Now she and her sister, Ejigayehu, another promising runner, own a sport utility vehicle and rent a four-bedroom house, where they care for two younger sisters. Soon, they will move into a new house built from track earnings. Meselech Melkamu, 19, the women's world junior cross-country champion, can now afford a maid to cook and clean in her rented house.
 ''My life has changed a lot,'' Melkamu said. ''I am not a burden on my family. It is important to manage on my own. I want to be like Haile, to be famous and win many races.''
 If she does, Melkamu, too, will gain her place of honor at the national stadium. Three sets of Olympic rings sit above the backstretch. Individual rings bear the likenesses of Ethiopia's Olympic champions. Inside other rings are question marks that ask, who will be the next champion? The answer could come soon in Athens.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on May 11 about Ethiopia's rise to power in distance-running events referred incorrectly to the record set by Abebe Bikila's victory in the 1960 Olympic marathon. Bikila became the first black African to win an Olympic championship, not the first African. (The first was a South African, Reginald Walker.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tirunesh Dibaba, left, and her sister Ejigayehu, two Olympic contenders, will soon move into a new house because of their success as long-distance runners.
Kenenisa Bekele, right, outpaced his Ethiopian teammates at the world cross-country championships in March. He was a multiple winner.
The women's 100-meter hurdles, above, at the Ethiopian championships. At right, the legendary Haile Gebrselassie in front of his palatial home. (Photographs by Jiro Mochizuki for The New York Times
three runners, below left, European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. D1)
 The 1960 marathon victory in Rome by Ethiopia's Abebe Bikila (11) was Africa's first Olympic gold medal. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); MARATHONS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%); WOMEN (60%); RUNNING (58%) Olympic Games; Running ; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Track and Field

PERSON: Jere Longman; Haile Gebrselassie

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ETHIOPIA (95%); KENYA (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); GREECE (68%) Ethiopia; Africa

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



250 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; 'Wicked' Tops List Of Tony Nominees

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Off Broadway Transfers Also Well Represented

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
''Wicked,'' a big-budget, family pleasing spectacle that tells the story of Oz from the witches' perspective, led the field with 10 Tony Award nominations yesterday, including best musical and acting nominations for its two leading witches, Idina Menzel and Kristin Chenoweth.
 ''Assassins,'' the darkly comic 1991 musical by Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman about singing sociopaths, received seven nominations, including best revival of a musical and best direction, by Joe Mantello, who also directed ''Wicked.''
 Multiple nominations also went to the three other nominees for best musical: ''Avenue Q,'' a comic Off Broadway musical about the inner lives of puppets that transferred to Broadway last summer and picked up six nominations, including best score and book; ''Caroline, Or Change,'' a civil rights-themed show and another Off Broadway transfer, which also picked up six nominations, including for Jeanine Tesori's score and Tony Kushner's book and lyrics; and ''The Boy From Oz,'' a glossy biographical look at the life of the singer Peter Allen (played on Broadway by Hugh Jackman), which received five nominations.
 On the dramatic side, four productions were nominated for best play, including two -- ''Anna in the Tropics'' by Nilo Cruz and ''I Am My Own Wife'' by Doug Wright -- that have already won the Pulitzer Prize for drama. The other two nominees were written by British playwrights: ''Frozen'' by Bryony Lavery and ''The Retreat From Moscow'' by William Nicholson. 
 While nominations can improve a show's lot, omission or underachievement can also signal trouble for productions. Among the shows that were smarting yesterday was ''Bombay Dreams,'' a $14 million production that got three nominations but no nod for best musical. Producers of ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' the cult musical about a killer plant, were also disappointed not to receive a nomination for best revival.
 Founded in 1947, the Tony Awards, which will be broadcast on CBS on June 6 with Mr. Jackman as host, function both as Broadway's highest artistic honor and as its most visible marketing tool. The awards show is often the one time that Americans outside of New York are exposed to Broadway. The nominations often result in a burst of advertising for shows, and this year many will have multiple nominations to announce. Twelve productions had at least four nominations, a sign of a remarkably democratic nomination year. 
 There are 735 eligible Tony voters, including members of theatrical organizations, touring companies, reporters, critics and regional producers, many of whom will trek to New York in coming weeks to see shows and be wooed by producers. 
 The Tonys represent only Broadway, ignoring swaths of regional, Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway productions, but commercial and nonprofit producers alike covet the awards as useful tools for marketing, subscriber and capital campaigns and launching pads for lucrative national tours. The flip side of this equation, however, is the increasing pressure on nonprofit productions to qualify for Tonys by opening on or moving to Broadway, an often risky financial proposition. 
 In recent years respected nonprofit companies like the Public Theater have lost millions of dollars with ill-advised Broadway productions like ''On the Town'' and ''The Wild Party.''
 Still, nonprofit companies have been increasingly successful at the Tonys and were well represented in this year's nominations by ''Caroline, Or Change,'' ''I Am My Own Wife,'' ''Frozen,'' ''Anna in the Tropics'' and ''Avenue Q.'' Lincoln Center Theater, the nation's largest nonprofit theater, received two nominations in a single category -- best revival of a play -- for its productions of ''King Lear'' and ''Henry IV.'' 
 The two other nominees in that category were the British revival of Tom Stoppard's esoteric farce ''Jumpers'' and a remounting of Lorraine Hansberry's classic 1959 drama ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' a commercial venture starring the rap mogul Sean Combs. Mr. Combs was not nominated, though his co-stars Phylicia Rashad, Sanaa Lathan and Audra McDonald all were. Ms. Rashad received a nomination for best actress in a play, and Ms. Lathan and Ms. McDonald were nominated for best featured actress in a play.
 The major acting categories are expected to be quite competitive, with several television and film stars mixed in with less well-known stage actors. Nominees for best actor in a play, for example, included Kevin Kline (''Henry IV''), Christopher Plummer (''King Lear''), Frank Langella (''Match'') and the British star Simon Russell Beale (''Jumpers''). The final nominee is Jefferson Mays, who is making his Broadway debut in ''I Am My Own Wife,'' a one-man show in which he plays more than 40 characters.
 Other nominees in the category of leading actress in a play were Anne Heche, as a batty actress in ''Twentieth Century''; Tovah Feldshuh, who plays Golda Meir in the one-woman show ''Golda's Balcony''; Swoosie Kurtz, as the mother of a dead child in ''Frozen''; and Eileen Atkins, who portrays a brittle wife in a downward-spiraling marriage in ''The Retreat From Moscow.''
 Competition in the musical acting categories was expected to be less stiff, with Mr. Jackman considered the favorite among the men. Other nominees are Hunter Foster (''Little Shop of Horrors''), Alfred Molina (''Fiddler on the Roof''), Euan Morton (''Taboo'') and John Tartaglia (''Avenue Q''). A tighter race was expected in the women's musical acting category, where in addition to Ms. Menzel and Ms. Chenoweth the nominees are Donna Murphy, who leads the cast in ''Wonderful Town''; Tonya Pinkins, who plays an aggrieved black maid in ''Caroline, or Change''; and Stephanie D'Abruzzo, one of the quirky puppeteers in ''Avenue Q.''
 The nominees for best musical revival -- a category of show that is a mainstay on Broadway, whose shows grossed more than $700 million last year -- include two productions of the nonprofit Roundabout Theater Company, ''Assassins'' and ''Big River,'' which was originally produced in 1985. Also nominated in that category were ''Fiddler on the Roof'' (1964), which received six nominations in all, and ''Wonderful Town'' (1953), which received five.
 The Tonys also include an annual regional theater award to a single institution that has ''displayed a continuous level of artistic achievement contributing to the growth of theater nationally.'' This year's winner, announced yesterday, is the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park. James M. Nederlander, chairman of the Nederlander Organization, will also be honored at the June 6 ceremony.
 The nominations were announced at the Hudson Theater in Manhattan's theater district, in an event calculated to highlight Broadway's star power and importance to the local economy. Those announcing nominations included figures from sports (Tiki Barber of the New York Giants), fashion (the designer Kenneth Cole) and music (the singer Cyndi Lauper).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jefferson Mays, a nominee for best actor in a play for ''I Am My Own Wife.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5)
A scene from ''Anna in the Tropics'' with, from left, Priscilla Lopez, Victor Argo (who died last month) and Jimmy Smits
at right, Marc Kudisch in the revival of the musical ''Assassins.''
From above left, ''Caroline, or Change'' with Tonya Pinkins, left, and Aisha de Haas
''Wicked'' with Kristin Chenoweth, left, and Idina Menzel
 ''The Boy From Oz,'' with Hugh Jackman. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); WRITERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%) 

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Idina Menzel; Kristin Chenoweth; Joe Mantello

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004



251 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Finished, Finally! Recreation Center Planned in the 70's Opens in Chelsea

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It was the depths of New York City's fiscal crisis of the 1970's, and one of the lesser-known casualties was a half-built public recreation center for the residents of Chelsea. It had been designed to give the children in the neighborhood's brownstones and public housing a place to splash, shoot baskets and escape the scorching asphalt of summer.
 Yesterday, with all the fanfare of a dream deferred then finally realized -- even if almost 30 years later -- the six-story center opened, and it is a quite different creature from the original plan. 
 In the early 70's, a home economics room for girls was planned. The new center, costing $22.4 million in construction funds allocated in recent years, has nothing so anachronistic. But in an era of heightened consciousness about fitness for adults as well as children, it does have an aerobics room with a cushioned ''sprung floor,'' a cardiovascular room with 6 treadmills, 6 stair-climbing machines and 12 stationary bicycles, and a weight room. 
 The original planners never imagined children for whom computers would be as compatible as roller skates, but the new center has 14 Gateways and three Macintoshes in its computer lab. There are a basketball court and a Ping-Pong table -- the city's 36 recreation centers have always had those -- but this one also has two green-felt pool tables so authentic they might have prompted Professor Harold Hill to tell the mayor, ''Ya got trouble my friend right here in River City.'' 
 Unlike the flavorless municipal creations of earlier eras, this center is enhanced by the polish worthy of a billionaire mayor and a once-bleak neighborhood that has become a favorite of art buyers in recent years. The six-lane, 25-yard pool not only boasts the luxuries of a digital scoreboard and underwater timing pads for swimming meets, but it also has a mosaic mural of dolphins made of 175,000 glass tiles donated by Bisazza, an Italian manufacturer. The tiled locker rooms have individual stall showers.
 City-run recreation centers have long provided refuges for children whose families could not afford summer camps or after-school karate lessons. Many grown-ups remember playing their first games of Nok hockey on the centers' battered tables or watching future pro basketball players flaunt their layups within the echoing walls of the gymnasiums.
 The Chelsea Recreation Center, on 25th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues, is the first built since the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay. It was during his mayoralty that an old Chelsea bathhouse at 28th Street, which served as a recreation center, was torn down to make way for a mail-sorting building. Politicians promised that the center would be replaced and work did indeed start on the 25th Street site in 1973. 
 The exterior shell, roof and elevator shaft were completed and a basin dug for a swimming pool. Then, in 1976, with the city facing bankruptcy, the center was among the many projects put on ice. The windows were sealed and the Parks Department used the building for storing file cabinets.
 Neighborhood groups perennially pleaded with elected officials to restore the center's financing and even hired a consultant and an architect to buttress their case. Meanwhile, water dripped through an aging roof.
 ''Every elected official we talked to said yes, but unfortunately nothing happened,'' said Doris Corrigan, who for a time headed Chelsea 25, one of the neighborhood groups. 
 According to Adrian Benepe, the city's parks commissioner, not only were the center's capital costs a deterrent but so, too, were the operating costs of staffing a center that is to employ 34 workers -- lifeguards, recreational workers and security officers. The project gained new life in the last months of the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, with appeals from Rosemary O'Keefe, a former assistant recreation commissioner who worked in Mr. Giuliani's community assistance unit. She got Mr. Giuliani to tour the building and he allocated most of the capital money.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who spoke at yesterday's heavily attended ribbon cutting in the new gymnasium, made sure the money was available to complete the building and staff it. Other funds were funneled to the center by legislators including City Councilwoman Christine C. Quinn, who lives nearby. The center was designed by Koutsomitis Architects. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has made schools and out-of-school programs for children a central theme, and Mr. Benepe has chosen to make physical fitness one of his signature programs, particularly for children caught up in a national epidemic of obesity. The center will run exercise and swimming classes. 
 Asked why the city built such a handsome building, Mr. Benepe said: ''The days of dowdy municipal architecture are over. It's not that much more expensive to build a beautiful building than a dowdy one.''
 The center, at 56,500 square feet one of the city's largest, will be free for children. Adults between 18 and 54 must pay $75 a year to use it. Those 55 and over pay $10. 
 Though the center will not be fully running until Monday, children from nearby schools were invited to splash around the pool, try out the computers and pose with Mayor Bloomberg and a basketball.
 One young man succinctly summed up the center's attraction.
 ''I used to go to the Y.M.C.A.,'' said Gabe Byer, 14, who lives half a block away. ''It's expensive to get a membership. Here it's free and close to my house.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nadia Schreiver, 13, tried out the pool, framed by a mosaic mural, at the new recreation center in Chelsea. Pool tables are among the other amenities at the center, on 25th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg met students in the computer lab. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); FAMILY (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); POOL & BILLIARDS (69%); SWIMMING (64%); SPORTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



252 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Group Says Europe Is Lagging in Global Recovery

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: PARIS, May 11 

 BODY:
The United States and Asia are leaving Europe behind in an accelerating, but uneven global economic recovery. That was the assessment of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development when it released its semiannual outlook at its headquarters here on Tuesday.
 The organization raised its growth forecast for the United States, while cutting its outlook for Germany and Italy. It prescribed opposite remedies to help narrow the economic divide: an increase in interest rates by the Federal Reserve and a cut by the European Central Bank. 
 ''Asia and North America are racing ahead, but Germany and Italy are struggling to revive their economies,'' said Jean-Philippe Cotis, the chief economist of the O.E.C.D., an organization of 30 countries.
 This disparity, which has been deepened by economic policies on both sides of the Atlantic, could threaten Europe and Japan with further spikes in the exchange rates of their currencies versus the dollar.
 ''You could have a turbulent exchange rate adjustment,'' he said in an interview. ''That would hurt Japan and Europe.''
 A declining dollar could stoke inflation in the United States, Mr. Cotis said, which would prompt the Fed to embark on a long-expected tightening of monetary policy. That step could be jarring, he warned, if the White House does not scale back its spending and tackle the deficit.
 Still, the troubles in the American economy pale beside those in Europe, which fell harder, and is recovering more slowly, than any other major economic bloc.
 The O.E.C.D. predicts that the 12-nation euro zone will grow just 1.6 percent this year, compared with 4.7 percent in the United States. Japan, once the economic sick man of the world, is projected to grow 3 percent, nearly double Europe's pace.
 Germany, where consumers remain in near paralysis, is expected to grow only 1.1 percent in 2004. Italy, which has suffered from an eroding competitiveness of its exports, may grow just 0.9 percent.
 The most humbling fact for Europeans is that so far, their woes have had little effect on the global economy, in part because Asia has grown in importance as a trading partner for the United States.
 ''Being a Frenchman and a European it hurts me to say it, but it is true: Europe is not indispensable to this recovery,'' Mr. Cotis said.
 There was fresh evidence of Europe's struggles at a meeting of finance ministers in Brussels on Monday. The German finance minister, Hans Eichel, warned the European Commission that Berlin might not fulfill its promise to pull its budget deficit below 3 percent of its gross domestic product by 2005, as mandated by the Maastricht Treaty, which created the monetary union.
 Germany, which has breached the deficit cap for three consecutive years, said it could not risk having spending cuts choke off a recovery. The government has also been hit with an unexpected shortfall in tax revenues, prompting a new spate of rumors in Berlin that Mr. Eichel may be replaced.
 ''The recovery is there,'' he said, ''but it's not so robust that we can already touch the brakes. We first need firm ground under our feet.''
 Italy, which is also on track to violate the deficit limit in 2004, avoided being issued a warning letter by the commission. The Italian economics minister, Giulio Tremonti, promised to stem the tide of red ink, winning the backing of his beleaguered colleague, Mr. Eichel.
 Europe's torpid growth has prompted a debate about whether the Continent should adopt looser fiscal policies, like those in the United States or Britain, whatever the strictures of the European Union.
 But Mr. Cotis said Germany, Italy and other countries had less flexibility to increase spending because they have not made changes to their pension systems and other social programs. Their aging populations, he added, would soon place an even heavier burden on public finances.
 The European Central Bank, Mr. Cotis said, could relieve some of the pressure by lowering interest rates half a point.
 In many ways, Europe was the gloomy exception in the O.E.C.D. report. Mr. Cotis said the recovery in the United States and Asia was ''strong and sustainable.'' Early fears that the rebound was not generating new jobs in the United States no longer seem warranted, he said. 
 Mr. Cotis took issue with two popular themes in recent economic analysis: that moving jobs to low-wage countries is to blame for the weak job environment in the United States, and that China is overheating.
 ''Outsourcing may be a good scapegoat,'' he said, ''but it doesn't explain why job creation has been below expectations.'' He said that moving jobs offshore was a ''smallish'' phenomenon, and that the weakness in the job market reflected corporate retrenchment after the buoyant 1990's.
 China's economy, he acknowledged, is ''close to overheating.'' But he believes that the Chinese leaders have averted the worst danger by moving quickly to tighten credit. ''You don't have an explosion of inflation there,'' Mr. Cotis said. ''They didn't let it get to that point before they acted.''
 Japan and South Korea, meanwhile, have hugely benefited from the breakneck growth in China because China has been a major buyer of Japanese and Korean machinery, as well as a prolific exporter.
 The wild card in the O.E.C.D.'s forecast is rising oil prices. If recent high prices persist, Mr. Cotis said, it would cut his global growth projections by 0.2 percentage point. Still, he counseled calm. ''There has been quite a bit of overreaction to the recent moves in oil prices,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%) 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%) European Union; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Mark Landler; Jean-Philippe Cotis

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Europe; Japan; Germany; Italy

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



253 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: 2 Big Mortgage Agencies Pressed To Buy More Low-Income Loans

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
An obscure rule intended to promote affordable housing has become the Bush administration's latest weapon in its effort to tighten the rules on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage finance companies.
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development has proposed forcing the companies to purchase more mortgages from lower-income households. The companies must now buy half of their loans from people making less than the median income in a region, or from developers building apartments that will probably be rented by those people.
 The housing department has proposed raising that target to 53 percent next year and to 57 percent by 2008. It also wants to raise several other closely related targets. 
 The companies have not publicly opposed the changes, which will take effect on July 2 unless the administration rescinds them. But they are quietly worried that they will be unable to meet the new goals unless they refuse to buy some loans from people making more than the median income, in effect slowing their growth.
 Last year, even the goal of 50 percent proved difficult for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to meet, because many mortgages took the form of a refinancing and people making more than the median income refinance more often.
 To meet their targets last year, both companies engaged in unusual deals with Washington Mutual, a big mortgage lender, that are now being examined by the housing department.
 If the new rule does deter Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from buying some home loans, mortgage rates could eventually rise slightly, although the increase would be small and difficult to distinguish from normal changes in interest rates.
 Some independent experts say that the new proposal appears to be a move by the White House to pressure the companies to limit their growth and to do it in a way that they will find difficult to fight.
 At best, the goals make housing only slightly affordable, said Nicolas Retsinas, director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard.
 But Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which promote themselves as companies that advance homeownership, would find it difficult to oppose the change, he said.
 John C. Weicher, an assistant secretary at the housing department, said political considerations were not the motivation for the new goals. The companies lag behind the overall market in the share of mortgages they buy from low-income borrowers, and the new goals would change that, he said.
 With $1 trillion in assets, Fannie Mae is the third-largest United States financial company, behind Citigroup and Bank of America. Freddie Mac, with $700 billion in assets, is fifth.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages from banks and other lenders with money they borrow from investors. Most of their profits come from the difference in interest rates between the mortgages they buy and the bonds they issue. 
 While the companies are privately owned, they have a special relationship with the government, including a line of credit with the Treasury Department.
 As a result, investors believe that the government would never allow the companies to fail, and so Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can borrow at lower interest rates than other financial institutions.
 The companies pass some of that discount to homeowners in the form of lower mortgage rates.
 But financial experts sharply disagree about how much of the subsidy the companies pass through and how much they keep for themselves as profit.
 Because of their low borrowing costs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have grown rapidly over the last decade. Now the companies are under sharp scrutiny from regulators, the Federal Reserve and the White House over growing fears that they are too big and do not have enough of a capital cushion to protect themselves from rapid changes in interest rates. The companies say that they are closely regulated and have hedged themselves against big swings in rates.
 The companies have strong support in Congress, where they are viewed as lowering mortgage rates at little cost to the government, and they have withstood scattered legislative efforts to regulate them more closely.
 As a result, the White House is considering other avenues to regulate the companies. No proposal is further along than changing the target for loans from low-income borrowers.
 The White House says the goals will help make housing more affordable. The companies do not do enough to help first-time homebuyers, especially minority homebuyers, Mr. Weicher said.
 ''We expect that they will do more,'' he said. ''We certainly think that the goals we've proposed are reasonable goals.''
 But advocates for housing for low-income people say they suspect the administration's motives.
 Even as it proposes making Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy more loans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has told local housing agencies that it will not pay the full cost of apartment subsidies under the Section 8 program for low-income renters.
 Mr. Retsinas said the White House appeared to have little interest in the rule until it began to look for new ways to pressure the companies.
 Until the last few months, ''the current administration really didn't seem to be looking very closely at the goals,'' Mr. Retsinas said. ''It's a renewed interest, and it may just be coincidental with the renewed interest of the administration in these institutions.''
 Whether the goals have any effect on making homes more affordable is unclear, said Howard Glaser, an independent mortgage industry analyst who was an official at the housing department in the Clinton administration. No studies have ever been conducted on their impact, Mr. Glaser said.
 If the goals are raised as high as the administration proposes, the companies will be forced either to change their business by bidding for substantially riskier mortgages or to slow their overall growth, Mr. Glaser said. ''My own view is that the 57 percent may be a bridge too far.''
 Neither Fannie Mae nor Freddie Mac has taken a public position on the new targets.
 Chuck Greener, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said the company ''looks forward to working with HUD to advance our mission.'' Mr. Greener said Fannie Mae had committed to increasing the minority homeownership rate from 49 percent to 55 percent by 2014. Among whites, the homeownership rate is 74 percent.
 Freddie Mac has concerns about the department's proposal, said David Palombi, a spokesman.
 ''The goals are only one measure of Freddie Mac's service to its mission,'' he said. ''We also expand homeownership and rental opportunities in some very important ways which the goals don't measure.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The chairmen of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- Franklin D. Raines, left, and Richard F. Syron -- at a committee hearing in February. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''To Slow Growth, a Proposed Change''In an effort to slow the growth of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government has proposed raising the percentage of mortgages they must buy that qualify as low to moderate income.Graph tracks mortgages held for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since 1980.Graph tracks low- and moderate-income financing from 1997 through proposed 2008.Minimum share of financing that must go to housing units for low- and moderate-income households. This level is set by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.(Sources by Fannie Mae
Office of Federal Enterprise Oversight
 Department of Housing and Urban Development)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); CITIES (72%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Fannie Mae; Freddie Mac; Housing and Urban Development Department

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (57%); RICHARD F SYRON (57%) Alex Berenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



254 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; LETTER FROM ASIA

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Foreigners Try to Melt an Inhospitable Japanese City

BYLINE: By James Brooke

DATELINE: MOMBETSU, Japan 

 BODY:
David Aldwinckle, a bespectacled native of Geneva, New York, braced himself for confrontation when he walked into Joy, a restaurant that, like many establishments here, posted a sign that was a variation on a popular theme here: ''Japanese Only.''
 Globalization arrived here in this small city on Japan's northernmost coast a decade ago, when Russian fishing boats started docking after the fall of Communism. But in the neon-lit entertainment district, bar owners and their patrons reacted like turtles.
 ''Before, when Russians were in here, Japanese customers would look in, and then slam the door,'' Hiroaki Okamura, the 25-year-old owner of Bar Raum, said to explain why he posted his ''Japanese Only'' sign last August. 
 In a society where consensus is prized, this city of 27,000 has drifted along for a decade with ''Japanese Only'' signs dotting commercial streets. Ironically, many excluded sailors come from Korsakov, a port hailed at City Hall as Mombetsu's Russian sister city. Some bars that say ''Japanese Only'' employ hostesses from the Philippines, Romania and, yes, Russia.
 In 1995, Japan ratified the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. But since then, Japan's Parliament has dragged its feet on carrying out laws. In a country where harmony and homogeneity are national goals, the constituencies are small for diversity and for enshrining the rights of minorities. ''No Foreigner'' signs are seen as practical ways of avoiding possible social unpleasantness, especially in establishments that involve alcohol or bathing.
 In a legacy of the Edo period, 1603-1868, when Japan sealed itself off from the outside world, Japan today ranks near the bottom among major economies for levels of foreign investment and numbers of foreign residents. In elections last fall, one prefectural governor only grudgingly apologized after calling foreigners ''sneaky thieves.'' In a recent poll, a third of the respondents said they did not want more foreign tourists. 
 This spring, an underlying discomfort over foreigners could be seen when the Justice Ministry opened what Mr. Aldwinckle called the ''snitch site.'' Web users could log into a government Web site and anonymously report foreigners for such grievances as vague as causing ''anxiety'' in the neighborhood. 
 But owners of Mombetsu's restaurants, bars and bath houses say the signs have nothing to do with xenophobia or discrimination and everything to do with Russian sailors' boorish behavior.
 ''I refuse to accept Russians because they make a lot of trouble,'' said Kazuko Sasaki, owner of the Torichiyo Bar here. Citing several cases of Russians who have walked out on bills, she said: ''I end up covering the losses. I have called the police three times.''
 ''At another bar along this street, a Russian suddenly jumped on one of the bar hostesses,'' said Ms. Sasaki, a woman in her 60's who tends the bar alone. ''Four policemen came over, but this Russian was so massive, they had a hard time getting him in the police car. This Russian was so huge and powerful.''
 On a recent weekend, exclusionary signs were targets for a trio of activists for foreigners' rights in Japan: Mr. Aldwinckle, now a Japanese citizen who goes by the name of Arudou Debito; Olaf Karthaus, a German chemistry professor; and James Eriksson, a Canadian English teacher.
 ''It's an aberration in the Japanese character -- I have been well treated here,'' said Mr. Eriksson, an Albertan who settled here 11 years ago, married, started a family and opened a school. Last May, a local bathhouse refused to admit a Canadian friend. Fired to action, Mr. Eriksson recently walked downtown, counting 30 establishments in three blocks with ''Japanese Only'' signs.
 Mr. Aldwinckle, a 39-year-old professor, decided to test the Joy, which operates an all-you-can-eat buffet. First, he argued with the manager. Then he lost his temper, and stomped out to cool down outside. When he returned, the sign was gone, and a nervous waitress ushered his party of foreigners and Japanese to a table.
 ''If I had not gotten angry, that sign would still be there,'' he said, tucking into his second plate. The waitress complained that the Russians eat and drink too much. But Mr. Aldwinckle, a 15-year resident of Japan, said there was more at play than money or bad behavior.
 ''Japan has an innate fear of the unpredictable and the unprecedented,'' he said. ''You never know what the foreigners are going to do, or this has never happened before so we don't have system for this.''
 Two minutes by patrol car from the bar district, Yoshimasa Yamanaka, a police officer who tabulates crime statistics, said Russian crime here was ''small.''
 Last year, when about 8,500 Russians visited, the police received around 50 complaints about Russians. Last year, 9 Russians were arrested for theft, compared with 263 Japanese.
 ''I have not heard of any case where a Russian beat a Japanese or used violence against Japanese,'' Mr. Yamanaka said. He conceded that the Russian crime rate was probably higher than statistics show because many thefts go unsolved or unreported.
 Russians here grimace at the discrimination, but generally take it in their stride.
 ''It's O.K., they look at us the way we look at the Chinese,'' Aleksei Khalemin, a crab fisherman from Sakhalin, said, nursing a $5 beer in a Wakkanai bar filled with Russian men drinking quietly. A sailor who has bounced around the Pacific, from Shanghai to Vancouver, he said he quickly learns the racial geography of Japanese ports.
 Here in Mombetsu, where local officials say ''Japanese Only'' signs are not their problem, Mr. Aldwinckle says the only solution is direct action.
 On this visit, his fourth since 2000, he scored three for three. He persuaded the managers of a karaoke bar, the Joy restaurant and Bar Raum to take down their discriminatory signs.
 Shinobu Miyajima, manager and hostess at the Holstein bar, said she took down her ''Japanese Only'' sign five years ago. Between pouring drinks and lighting cigarettes, she said: ''Sometimes Japanese companies would come here with Russian clients. The sign got to be embarrassing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, a view of the city and port of Mombetsu. Below left, two foreign activists, Dr. Olaf Karthaus, right, and an American-born Japanese citizen named Arudou Debito, visit one of the bars that refuses to serve Russians. Below right, at the entrance to a public bath, a sign in Japanese says, ''No gangsters allowed in this place.'' (Photographs by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times)Map of Japan highlighting Mombetsu: Mombetsu has been cool to foreigners, but three activists are working on the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); CITY LIFE (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); RACE & RACISM (65%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); RANKINGS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); WEB SITES (60%) 

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (98%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan; Mombetsu (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



255 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Plant Closing Puts Focus on New Skills

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: MARION, Ind. 

 BODY:
In its heyday, the RCA factory here employed almost 4,000 people and turned out millions of televisions a year. Word this spring that it would close and that its remaining 990 employees would lose their jobs left Bobbie Owensby's normally boisterous students at Marion High School sullen and silent.
 ''It was such a blow, there was a hush over the room,'' Ms. Owensby said, recalling her social studies class after the authorities announced that the plant would close in June. LaShanna Evans, a senior whose parents had worked a combined 59 years at the factory, could barely contain her tears. ''I won't be able to go to college now,'' LaShanna told her classmates. ''Both my parents are unemployed. They don't have any money.'' 
 With just weeks until the plant shuts down, this town of 31,000 is bracing for the economic shock. And as in thousands of other American communities shaken by factory closings, among those hurt will be students like LaShanna, with college plans thrown into disarray, and the public schools, where enrollments are declining and budgets are under pressure as tax rolls shrink.
 At the same time, community colleges here and in other declining factory towns are experiencing an extraordinary expansion. Hundreds of unemployed manufacturing workers, with an average age of 49, are enrolling at Ivy Tech State College here, seeking new skills before venturing into a regional job market overwhelmed with laid-off laborers.
 Like Marion's television factory, 4,500 American plants have closed in three years as companies have transferred production overseas or cut back in the face of foreign imports, the Labor Department says. 
 So far, Marion school officials can only speculate about what is ahead since the plant has not yet closed. But educators in Detroit learned how a financial crisis could overwhelm a school system when the factories that have helped finance it moved away, said Jeffrey E. Mirel, a University of Michigan professor who wrote a history of the Detroit schools.
 In the 1960's, a string of auto plants in Detroit closed, provoking an exodus of workers and a decline of more than 40 percent in the value of taxable property. The result was a school crisis so severe that a 1972 editorial in The Detroit Free Press worried about a ''collapse of public education,'' Dr. Mirel said.
 ''For schools, a plant closing creates a whole series of problems,'' the professor said. ''You can no longer tax the value of the plant, workers leave town, home values drop and stores close. It becomes an intricate dance toward destruction.''
 The Marion plant, at which RCA began producing black-and-white TV's in 1949, is a vast brick structure, bristling with smokestacks. At its peak, in 1973, it employed 3,985.
 Thomson, a French company, bought it in 1987, and with foreign competition rising, layoffs eroded the work force over the years. Thomson began moving production to Mexicali, Mexico, in 2001 and laid off 820 workers last year. On March 16, the plant manager assembled the 990 workers still on the job, announced the shutdown, said workers would be paid for the next 90 days and told them to leave immediately. 
 The company has since negotiated with the union a severance package that includes a week's pay for each year of an employee's tenure. Thomson has also called a few dozen people back to work, including LaShanna's parents, to finish pending orders before the plant's final shutdown next month, Richard Knoph, a spokesman, said. 
 Mayor Wayne W. Seybold, a Republican, said that the town would suffer by losing Thomson's $50 million local payroll as well as $15 million to $20 million spent each year on utilities and services. ''It's a devastating blow, psychologically and financially,'' he said. The local unemployment rate was 13.2 percent before Thomson announced its shutdown, and less than 10 percent of the workers laid off in Marion in the last few years have found new jobs.
 Thomson has been Marion's second-largest taxpayer (after a General Motors stamping factory), paying about $2.8 million annually in county taxes, and the Marion Community School District has consumed about 40 percent of those revenues, Mary Stevens, the county treasurer, said. Thomson will meet all its tax obligations, Mr. Knoph said. But local authorities said that the plant, soon to be an empty hulk, could stop generating significant tax revenues within a year or two.
 The Marion schools superintendent, Andrew Nixon, expressed concern about how the town would continue to finance its school system. Educating each pupil now costs more than $6,000, and is becoming more expensive as students bring poverty-related problems to school and drug addiction thrives among unemployed families, he said.
 The departure of Thomson workers continues a long population decline. School enrollment has fallen from 11,000 in the 1970's to 5,400 now, and less enrollment mean less state education money, Mr. Nixon said.
 If plant closings are bringing pain to the public schools, they are fueling an expansion of the Marion branch of Ivy Tech State College, a vocational school-turned-community college with a campus in Marion and 22 other Indiana communities. Under federal law, workers who were laid off because of foreign trade are eligible for two years' tuition and other educational benefits. 
 About 200 of the 820 Thomson workers laid off in Marion last year signed up for courses at Ivy Tech, contributing to a 37 percent enrollment rise this term, said J. Robert Jeffs, Ivy Tech's regional chancellor.
 Many workers have returned to school hoping to find new careers in nursing, radiology and other health-related fields, for which demand should rise as the nation grows older. 
 One Thomson employee pondering whether to return to school after the plant shuts down in June is LaShanna's father, Darryl Evans, who has worked at Thomson for 27 of his 46 years. LaShanna has been accepted for fall admission to Tennessee State University in Nashville.
 ''You all don't have jobs anymore, and when I go to college I'll have a lot of expenses,'' LaShanna told her father the other day when he left the plant to meet her for lunch. Mr. Evans pulled out his wallet and handed her a wad of spending money. ''I can get you through college, honey,'' he said. But without a job, such generosity will not always be possible. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Thomson employees taking a computer training course at Ivy Tech State College in Marion, Ind.
 College costs worry LaShanna Evans, a high school senior. (Photographs by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); HOME PRICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



256 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Attacks Drive Price of Oil to $40 a Barrel

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
The price of crude oil surpassed $40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Attacks on oil facilities in Iraq and Saudi Arabia in recent weeks have largely been responsible for driving up the price, industry experts said.
 Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.13 a barrel, or 3 percent, to close at $40.06, the highest since the October 1990 market spike in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, when prices briefly reached $40.60 a barrel.
 As the global economic growth has picked up speed, voracious demand for oil in the United States and China has kept prices above $30 a barrel for months. But the prices have jumped 9.9 percent since April 24, when suicide bombers made a failed attack on a critical Iraqi offshore oil terminal. A week later, terrorists killed foreign and Saudi workers inside Saudi Arabia's Yanbu oil hub. 
 The concern among traders is that such attacks on oil facilities in the Middle East will continue, and eventually disrupt supplies at a time when the world badly needs a lot of oil. ''In the region, oil is in the crosshairs,'' said John Kilduff, senior vice president for energy risk management at Fimat USA, the commodities brokerage arm of Societe Generale. ''Increasingly, it seems that those fighting the United States and the coalition are acting that way.''
 If oil prices remain this high, as many experts fear, they could gradually erode the economic recovery. ''If $40 a barrel of oil prevails through the end of the year, that should shave approximately half a point in G.D.P. growth between now and this time next year,'' said Mark Zandi, executive director of Economy.com, a research firm in West Chester, Pa. ''Higher oil prices means higher inflation. It would be very much like a tax increase on all of us, except we'd be cutting a check to foreign producers rather than our own friendly government.''
 The rise in crude oil prices comes one day after the Saudi Arabian oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, called for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase its production quota by 1.5 million barrels a day, to 25 million. Since the 11-nation cartel is already overproducing its quota to cash in on high prices, pumping about 25.7 million barrels a day, Mr. al-Naimi's proposal was seen as a gesture intended to calm the market and signal that the Saudis do not want to imperil the global economy, according to Leonidas F. Drollas, chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies, a London consulting firm.
 But the Saudi statement failed to persuade traders that oil prices could be reined in. They continue to worry about possible attacks on oil facilities. 
 Over the weekend, insurgents in Iraq damaged an important pipeline that carries oil to the southern port city of Basra. That attack and another oil pipeline shutdown have kept about 400,000 barrels a day from reaching market, Mr. Drollas said. Though Iraqi officials said the Basra pipeline would be repaired soon, such efforts have often been thwarted this year by persistent saboteurs.
 Traders estimated that the possibility of more attacks on oil facilities in the Middle East have added a ''risk premium'' to the price of oil ranging from $4 to $8 a barrel.
 Gasoline prices are also expected to rise to a record national average of $1.94 a gallon this summer, according to a forecast released yesterday by the Energy Information Administration. A month ago, the agency predicted that gasoline prices would average $1.76 a gallon, or 10 percent less, this summer; the rise in crude oil prices accounts for the increase, the agency noted.
 Yet high oil and gasoline prices have so far done little to change consumer behavior in the United States, which burns much more oil than the rest of the world. ''In the past, consuming countries would be screaming bloody murder'' because of such prices, said Jan Stuart, head of research at Fimat. ''Now, prices seem to register in the minds of American officialdom and consumers as an irritant, not necessarily as a source of acute worry.''
 Americans spend a smaller percentage of their income on energy now than two decades ago, and when inflation is taken into account, gasoline prices remain substantially lower than they were in the early 1980's.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Reuters)Chart: ''Behind the Volatility''Iraqi firefighters battled a blaze after an attack on a pipeline near Basra this week, one of a series of such incidents in Iraq and Saudi Arabia that have driven up the price of oil.Graph tracks weekly oil prices, near-month contract, since 1990.Oct. 11, '90: $40.42Yesterday's close: $40.06(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CARTELS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); TAX LAW (62%) 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%); NEWEDGE GROUP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (97%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



257 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: A City of Quitters? In Strict New York, 11% Fewer Smokers

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
In the wake of huge tobacco tax increases and a ban on smoking in bars, the number of adult smokers in New York City fell 11 percent from 2002 to 2003, one of the steepest short-term declines ever measured, according to surveys commissioned by the city.
 The surveys, to be released today, show that after holding steady for a decade, the number of regular smokers dropped more than 100,000 in a little more than a year, to 19.3 percent of adults from 21.6 percent. The decline occurred across all boroughs, ages and ethnic groups.
 The surveys also found a 13 percent decline in cigarette consumption, suggesting that smokers who did not quit were smoking less. Like similar local and national polls, the surveys counted as smokers all people who said that they had smoked more than 100 cigarettes in their lives and that they now smoked every day or ''some days.'' 
 City health officials and opponents of smoking said they believed that the decline was caused primarily by sharply higher tobacco taxes that went into effect in 2002, including an increase to $1.50 from 8 cents a pack in New York City.
 The drop also coincided with a new city law banning smoking in bars, a new state law prohibiting it in restaurants and bars, and the Bloomberg administration's aggressive anti-smoking campaign, which has included advertising and the distribution of free nicotine patches to thousands of people.
 ''From what we've seen, we believe New York City experienced the steepest decline anywhere in one year,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city health commissioner.
 Spokesmen for the largest cigarette makers said the higher taxes had certainly pushed down sales. They also said they did not know how much consumption had actually declined because they could not account for factors like smuggling to evade taxes and increased sales of lesser-known brands from smaller manufacturers.
 ''You have some people just saying, 'I'm not going to pay that much' and quitting, but I seriously doubt'' the figure of 11 percent, said John W. Singleton, a spokesman for the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. 
 Brendan McCormick, a spokesman for Philip Morris USA, said he had no reason to confirm or rebut the city's figures. 
 City officials said they expected skepticism from critics who will call the survey numbers an attempt by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration to validate his anti-tobacco policies, just as some people disputed the administration's reports showing no loss of business in bars after smoking was outlawed there.
 ''I take a pessimistic view of their figures because I suspect they're geared to supporting their agenda, but in this case, I'm sure we all hope that their stats are correct and less people are smoking,'' said Councilman Tony Avella of Queens, who has clashed with the mayor on tobacco control policies.
 Administration officials said that the 2002 and 2003 telephone surveys were conducted for the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene by Baruch College researchers using identical methods and that the random dialing approach and questions were the same as those used in annual surveys by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They also point out that the city polls used very large samples, 10,000 people each time, which pollsters say makes the results more authoritative. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 1 percentage point, officials said.
 Other evidence also suggests a sharp drop in smoking, including lower city and state tobacco tax revenue, sales of products like nicotine patches and gum, and anecdotal reports of greater enrollment in smoking cessation programs.
 ''New York did the perfect trifecta that no one has attempted before -- raising taxes very steeply, making it harder to smoke indoors, and promoting cessation, so you would expect a dramatic result,'' said Dr. Steven A. Schroeder, a professor of health and health care at the University of California at San Francisco and a former president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which finances health care research. ''Most cities and states aren't doing much of anything.''
 Legislation to raise the minimum legal age for smoking to 19 from 18 in New York State has been proposed. Yesterday, when asked about the proposal, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''I certainly would not be opposed to raising the age. You know, I've done what I think I can to discourage smoking in the city.''
 According to the Centers for Disease Control, adult smoking nationwide declined steadily from the first surgeon general's warning in the 1960's to the early 1990's, then held steady, though it continued to decline among teenagers. Annual federal surveys by the Centers for Disease Control show the adult rate, both nationally and in New York State, steady at about 23 percent for several years, through 2002, the most recent year for which numbers are available.
 For a decade, surveys showed the rate in the city almost unchanged. The most recent surveys show greater declines among people who federal and city statistics indicate are less able to afford higher prices: the youngest adults, Bronx residents, women, and blacks and Hispanics.
 ''This city survey shows what can happen if you attack it really hard,'' said Russell Sciandra, director of the Center for a Tobacco-Free New York, an advocacy group. ''It is not at all surprising. This is what we said all along would happen if you sharply raised the cost of smoking.''
 New York State raised its tax on cigarettes from 56 cents a pack to $1.11 in March 2000, and on April 1, 2002, lifted it to $1.50, one of the highest tobacco taxes in the country. New York City raised its tax on July 1, 2002, from 8 cents to $1.50, by far the highest local levy in the country. The federal tax rose to 34 cents from 24 cents in January 2000, and to 39 cents on Jan. 1, 2002.
 So the combined city, state and federal levies on a pack stood at 88 cents at the end of 1999, $1.53 at the end of 2001, and $3.39 by mid-2002.
 A new city law took effect on April 1, 2003, prohibiting smoking in bars and eliminating limited exceptions to the previous ban on smoking in restaurants. A statewide ban in restaurants and bars took effect on July 24.
 The city conducted its 2002 survey from May to July, and the 2003 canvass from April to November.
 In 2002 and 2003, taxed cigarette sales declined about 25 percent statewide and about 40 percent in the city, according to government officials. Some of that drop reflects increased efforts to evade higher taxes, like Internet sales and bootlegging. In the city today, a name-brand pack of 20 cigarettes typically retails for $7 to $8, but nontaxed packs smuggled into the city can be bought illegally on many street corners for about $5. 
 Health researchers, economists and cigarette makers agree that some of the fall in tax revenue represents a real decline in consumption, but they disagree on the extent. Studies have shown that a 10 percent increase in the cost of cigarettes produces about a 4 percent drop in use.
 ''New York City is almost a laboratory experiment in what happens when prices get so high people just refuse to pay it,'' said Mr. Singleton, of R.J. Reynolds. ''There's a real economic incentive here for people to break the law.''
 Health researchers say that smoking cuts short the lives of about a third of long-term smokers, by an average of about 14 years. Dr. Frieden, the city health commissioner, said reducing the smoking population by 100,000, if the change is permanent, ''means that there will be at least 30,000 fewer premature deaths.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Their numbers are declining: smokers taking a break outside 770 Broadway yesterday in Manhattan. The drop is attributed to sharp increases in cigarette taxes and to new restrictions on smoking in public. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Smoke-Out''The number of New York City residents 18 and older who reported smoking every day or some days dropped 11 percent from 2002 to 2003. Smoking rates vary by borough.Graph tracks the citywide adult smoking rate from 1993-2003.Graph tracks the adult smoking rate in 2003:Staten Island: 25.8%Bronx: 20.7Brooklyn: 18.7Manhattan: 18.7Queens: 18.5(Source by New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MAYORS (77%); SMUGGLING (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (55%); ETHNICITY (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%) 

COMPANY: R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (63%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (63%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



258 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Higher as Faith in Economy Trumps Fear of Rates

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks gained yesterday on optimism that a growing economy will limit the effects of rising interest rates, recovering from a drop the day before that sent benchmark indexes to their lows for 2004.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 8.33 points yesterday, or 0.8 percent, to 1,095.45. The Nasdaq index rose 35.28 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,931.35. The Dow Jones industrial average rose for the first time in five days, adding 29.45 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,019.47. The gain was limited by a drop in shares of the Altria Group. 
 Since reaching a 23-month high on Feb. 11, the S.&P. 500 has shed 5.4 percent, while the Dow has lost 6.7 percent from its 31-month high the same day. The Nasdaq has retreated 10 percent since its two-and-a-half-year high in January.
 Almost four stocks rose yesterday for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange, making it the broadest advance in three months. Some 1.5 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 1.2 percent more than this year's daily average.
 On Monday, seven stocks closed at new 52-week highs on the New York Stock Exchange, the lowest in almost eight years. There were 635 new lows, the most in almost two years.
 ''Those are figures you see at the end of a sell-off,'' said Gil Knight, a fund manager at Gartmore Global Investments, which oversees $77 billion, and is based in West Conshohocken, Pa. ''We're due for some kind of snap-back.''
 Intel, the world's largest semiconductor maker, added $1.22, to $27.77. The company increased inventories to the highest levels since 2001 in a bet that spending on electronics will rise. Worldwide chip sales surged 32 percent in March from a year earlier, the Semiconductor Industry Association said last week.
 Among the S.&P. 500's 10 industry groups, the index of technology companies contributed more than a third of the benchmark's advance. Texas Instruments, whose chips power half the cellphones sold last year, rose 71 cents to $26.34. Yahoo, the Internet company, jumped $2.20, to $53.53.
 Shares of oil and gas companies jumped after crude oil futures closed above $40 a barrel, the highest price in almost 14 years. An index of energy shares in the S.&P. 500 rose 1.6 percent, the second-biggest gain among the benchmark's 10 industry groups.
 The Marathon Oil Corporation climbed $1.05, to $33.70. The Amerada Hess Corporation advanced $2.06, to $71.21. Kinder Morgan Inc., an operator of natural-gas and fuel pipelines, added $1.74, to $58.65. The Halliburton Company, the world's largest oilfield-services company, gained 96 cents, to $28.90 after saying it may receive $1.6 billion from insurers to settle disputes over asbestos claims.
 Symbol Technologies, the world's largest seller of bar-code scanners, soared $1.83, or 15 percent, to $14.08, for the biggest gain in the S.&P. 500. Symbol reported first-quarter revenue of $419.7 million, exceeding the estimate of $408.8 million from a Thomson survey.
 Altria, the parent of the cigarette maker Philip Morris, lost $1.49, to $53.40. The 2.7 percent drop was the biggest in the Dow average. The company said full-year profit would be $4.50 to $4.60 a share because of costs for a preliminary settlement with the European Commission over cigarette-smuggling charges. Three weeks ago, Altria forecast earnings of $4.57 to $4.67 a share, excluding potential costs for the agreement.
 Electronic Data Systems, the world's second-largest seller of computer services, sank $1.03, or 5.9 percent, to $16.48, for the steepest drop in the S.&P. 500. The company said it might slash its dividend by 67 percent, the first cut ever, to help raise more than $1 billion and keep its investment-grade credit rating. The company may also sell stock to raise money.
 United States Treasury notes rose after the government's sale of $24 billion of debt showed that demand remained high from a group that includes foreign central banks, raising optimism for the two other auctions scheduled for this week. By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note rose 10/32 to 94 6/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.75 percent, from 4.80 percent on Monday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills and three-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.790
High Yield: 3.199
Low Yield: 3.140
Median Yield: 3.168
Total applied for: $53,540,206
Accepted: $27,562,256
Noncompetitive: $317,436
Interest set at: 3 1/8

The 3-year notes mature May 15, 2007.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.930
High Rate: 0.895
Coupon Yield: 0.913
Low Rate: 0.870
Median Rate: 0.890
Total applied for: $59,591,245
Accepted: $23,112,555
Noncompetitive: $47,192

The four-week bills mature June 10, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); FUTURES (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (80%); HALLIBURTON CO (80%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (70%); HESS CORP (60%); KINDER MORGAN INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); INTEL CORP (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (80%); HAL (NYSE) (80%); MO (NYSE) (70%); HES (NYSE) (60%); KMI (NYSE) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (80%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (80%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (80%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (70%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



259 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Witness Says Tyco Chief Couldn't Grant Bonus

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, did not have the authority to grant a $17 million bonus for the company's general counsel, Mark A. Belnick, according to testimony yesterday from a former director.
 Prosecutors say Mr. Belnick, 57, received the bonus and millions more in no-interest loans for covering up misconduct by Mr. Kozlowski. Mr. Belnick's lawyers say the bonus was a reward for heading off an inquiry into Tyco's accounting practices by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 The former director, John Fort, was cross-examined by Mr. Belnick's lawyer, Reid Weingarten, in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. 
 Mr. Fort said Mr. Kozlowski was allowed to spend up to $200 million on corporate acquisitions without clearing them with the board. Mr. Fort also said that the board's compensation committee had the final say on matters of executive pay.
 ''Is it your position that Kozlowski could buy a company for $200 million on his own and he couldn't authorize a bonus?'' Mr. Weingarten asked him. ''Absolutely,'' Mr. Fort said.
 Mr. Belnick is charged with grand larceny, stock fraud and falsifying business records. 
 Earlier yesterday, Mr. Fort, who is also a former Tyco chief executive, testified that the company did not tell regulators about loans that officers received for moving. Prosecutors say Mr. Belnick borrowed almost $15 million and used most of it to build a home in Park City, Utah. Tyco had no corporate offices in Utah. Mr. Belnick was fired in June 2002.
 Mr. Fort said such relocation loans were not reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission when he led the company from 1982 to 1992.
 ''They did not need to be reported because they were in the ordinary course of business, correct?'' Mr. Weingarten asked.
 ''I believe so,'' Mr. Fort said.
 Mr. Belnick is accused of failing to disclose the no-interest relocation loans. Prosecutors say the loans went beyond their stated purpose and should have been reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); LARCENY & THEFT (51%) 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Tyco International Ltd; Securities and Exchange Commission; Tyco International Ltd

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

PERSON: John Fort; L Dennis Kozlowski; Mark A Belnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) UTAH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



260 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Americas: Cuba: Government Closes 'Dollar Stores'

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The country's dollar-only stores displayed ''closed for inventory'' signs after the government suddenly shut them down, citing new United States measures aimed at squeezing the island's economy. Long lines stretched from state stores with food and personal hygiene products -- nearly the only items still sold to Cubans in dollars -- as people scrambled to buy shampoo and soap from rapidly emptying shelves. The government did not say whether the stores would reopen. Some citizens questioned how the closure, which prevents Cubans from spending dollars at the government stores, would counteract the American plan to reduce hard currency on the island by limiting how often Cuban-Americans can visit relatives, decreasing how much they can spend, and prohibiting money transfers to Cuban officials and Communist Party members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



261 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Firms Named For East River Plan

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
A renowned British architectural firm, the Richard Rogers Partnership, and an emerging Manhattan firm, SHoP/Sharples Holden Pasquarelli, have been chosen to prepare a master plan for the redevelopment of the East River waterfront in Lower Manhattan, it was announced yesterday. The plan, being developed by the Economic Development Corporation and the City Planning Department and scheduled to be completed in 2005, covers an area from Battery Park to East River Park. Public meetings are to begin next month. David W. Dunlap (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); CITIES (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



262 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: A Flurry Of Diplomacy In Asia on Eve Of Arms Talks

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, May 11 

 BODY:
Tokyo is abuzz with reports that the prime minister of Japan is planning a visit to North Korea. Meanwhile, South Korea and North Korea are organizing a meeting of army generals, the highest level inter-Korean military meeting in decades.
 Pieces in Northeast Asia's long frozen security puzzle are starting to shift as envoys from the United States, China, Japan, Russia and the two Koreas converge Wednesday in Beijing for midlevel talks on North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
 ''The North Koreans have been told by the Chinese: 'Cool it, tone down the rhetoric, don't look like a belligerent power to the world','' Selig S. Harrison, an expert on North Korea, said by telephone from his office at the Center for International Policy in Washington. 
 While North Korea waits to see what happens in the American presidential election, he said, it is taking conciliatory steps toward the United States' two closest allies in the region, Japan and South Korea.
 In Tokyo, newspapers reported Tuesday that Japanese diplomats were preparing a visit by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to Pyongyang in late May. According to these reports, Mr. Koizumi will travel to North Korea's capital to take back to Japan the children of five Japanese who had been abducted by North Korea and whom he brought home on an earlier trip, in September 2002.
 Mr. Koizumi's popularity soared after that trip, only to sink after the Japanese public realized that the abductees' children had been left behind and that North Korea had kidnapped many more Japanese. With elections in Parliament's upper house set for July, Mr. Koizumi may see a narrow window to raise his popularity with a dramatic move.
 Mr. Koizumi has been coy, telling reporters on Monday, ''Media reports seem to be saying various things, but there is nothing I can say at this point.''
 Japanese officials are wary of irritating the Bush administration, which wants a united front of North Korea's neighbors in dealing with the North's nuclear weapons program. Japanese and North Korean negotiators are expected to meet separately during the nuclear talks in Beijing this week.
 Hiroyuki Hosoda, Mr. Koizumi's chief cabinet secretary, cautioned Monday that ''there are a number of things that need to be worked out before a summit can be held.'' But he stressed that North Korea had recently shown a new ''willingness to advance dialogue.''
 In legislation aimed at North Korea, the Japanese Parliament recently passed a law allowing economic sanctions against any country threatening Japan's national security. Now it is considering a bill to ban port calls by designated ships. On Tuesday, the North's official Korean Central News Agency urged Japan to think twice about the ''disastrous consequences'' that would follow sanctions. 
 North Korea is also trying to drive a wedge between the United States and South Korea, where members of a newly elected liberal majority in the National Assembly take their seats on May 30. 
 North Korea welcomed South Korean relief aid for the April 22 train explosion in Ryongchon, allowing a convoy of 20 trucks to cross the demilitarized zone on Friday and a ship with steam shovels and steel girders to dock Monday near the site of the blast. And on Friday, the North accepted a South Korean invitation for high-level military talks, a rarity for two countries still technically at war.
 ''This is a proof that economic exchanges and cooperation will lead to building up trust in military affairs as well,'' Jeong Se Hyun, South Korea's unification minister, told reporters on Saturday on returning here from Pyongyang.
 Next month, the new National Assembly is expected to debate dropping North Korea's classification as an enemy from South Korea's National Security Law. 
 In a measure of growing inter-Korean economic cooperation, Hyun Jung Eun, the chairwoman of South Korea's Hyundai Group, arrived Tuesday in Pyongyang to meet officials involved in the group's business projects in the North.
 Against this rising tide of inter-Korean peaceful coexistence, conservative newspapers in South Korea published articles last week saying satellite photographs indicate that the North is building new bases to launch missiles with ranges long enough to hit Okinawa or Guam, islands with American bases.
 ''They have never stopped in their missile development plan; they are continuing it,'' said Kim Tae Woo, an arms control expert at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses, adding that he could not confirm the newspaper reports.
 Noting that North Korea has intensified its ''smile diplomacy,'' he warned, ''Their appeasement posture is designed to separate Japan and South Korea from the United States.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%) 

PERSON: James Brooke; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%) North Korea; China; South Korea; Japan; Russia; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



263 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Tax Breaks For Business Are Approved In the Senate

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 11 

 BODY:
After months of delay and relentless corporate lobbying, the Senate voted, 92 to 5, on Tuesday for a bill that would create $170 billion in new tax breaks for business while trying to crack down on a variety of tax shelters.
 The original goal of the bill had been to replace a tax break for exporters that the World Trade Organization had declared illegal. But the measure that passed was a 900-page behemoth that offered something for almost every business interest, Rust Belt manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, oil and gas producers, railroads and cruise-ship operators, timber companies, Oldsmobile dealers and even owners of Nascar automobile race tracks.
 The final vote on Tuesday was cast after Republican leaders reluctantly agreed to Democratic demands for a vote on extending unemployment benefits for 1.5 million workers who have used up their benefits. That amendment fell one vote short of the 60 needed to pass, and lawmakers moved swiftly afterward to pass the entire bill. 
 The last-minute scrambling could become a sore point for Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the likely Democratic presidential nominee. Mr. Kerry, on the campaign trail, was the lone lawmaker who failed to vote on unemployment benefits, and his vote could have arguably made the difference between passage and defeat.
 President Bush's campaign immediately jumped on the nonvote as evidence that Mr. Kerry was more interested in talk than action. ''Last month, John Kerry was pushing for the extension of unemployment benefits,'' a spokesman for the Bush/Cheney campaign, Steve Schmidt, said. ''Today he had the chance to actually vote on that question but was too busy playing politics when he would have made the difference in the Senate.''
 Mr. Kerry responded that Republicans were merely playing games, because at least some Republicans who had joined the Democrats would have adhered to their party line if their votes had been necessary.
 ''We were told that no matter what would happen they would change a vote in the Senate and they were not going to let it happen,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''If they are willing to reconsider and keep everybody's vote where they are, I will go back and do it.''
 About 1.5 million unemployed workers have run out of jobless benefits since Dec. 31, even though employment has picked up sharply, and 85,000 additional people a week are running out of benefits, as well. Republicans in the House as well as the Senate have fought any proposals to extend jobless benefits and said the strengthening recovery made an extension unnecessary.
 Extending the assistance would cost $5.8 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office, a pittance compared with the corporate tax breaks in the overall bill.
 The main purpose of the tax bill is to replace a tax break for exporters that the W.T.O. has declared illegal. The European Union has begun imposing duties on American exports worth $4 billion a year, though it is ratcheting up those tariffs gradually over the next year.
 Senate lawmakers have been bogged down by feuding interest groups and, more recently, by election year battles over unemployment benefits, overtime pay and the ''outsourcing'' of jobs overseas.
 Struggling to assemble enough votes, Republican leaders invited lawmakers in February to propose provisions for favored constituencies. Democrats and Republicans responded in force, and the bill grew to more than 900 pages.
 Keith Ashdown, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a research group here, said the bill had become ''stuffed to the brim with unrelated giveaways and payoffs to almost every special interest with Gucci-clad hired guns.''
 Even so, the bill faces major hurdles. House Republicans have been unable to muster agreement on a similar bill of their own, and they are quite likely to fight a number of provisions in the Senate bill.
 The bill would replace the old tax break for exporters with a tax reduction for manufacturers who produce goods in the United States, worth $65 billion over 10 years. It would also offer $39 billion in tax cuts on foreign income earned by American multinationals.
 The immediate corporate beneficiaries would include any company that still produces goods in the United States. The bill would also define ''manufacturers'' to include software companies like Microsoft, mining companies and Hollywood studios.
 In an effort to drum up support, Republicans and Democrats added dozens of provisions like $14 billion in tax breaks for energy production, $492 million in tax credits for railroad maintenance, $519 million in tax reductions on small aircraft and $232 million for ''Green bonds'' for giant shopping malls, including a $2.2 billion project in Syracuse, that use new environmental technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); NASCAR RACING (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); CORPORATE TAX (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



264 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Former Boeing Manager Faces Federal Charges
A former manager of Boeing was charged in a federal court with using documents stolen from Lockheed Martin to help Boeing win an important Pentagon rocket contract in 1998.
 The former manager, Larry Satchell, is the third Boeing employee to be implicated in a scheme that has turned into a financial and public relations debacle for Boeing. [Page C4.]

Muris Quits as Chairman of F.T.C.
Timothy J. Muris, left, said that he had decided to step down as chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. Mr. Muris intends to return to George Mason University, where he taught antitrust law before he became chairman of the agency in 2001. The White House announced that President Bush had selected Deborah P. Majoras, a former top antitrust official at the Justice Department, to succeed him. [C2.]

Group Plans Wal-Mart Strategy
Union leaders, academics and community activists are set to hold a meeting in Washington to begin mapping out a strategy to deal with Wal-Mart. [C4.]

Settlement in Warnaco Case
Regulators said that they had settled fraud charges with the Warnaco Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers in connection with Warnaco's 1998 financial results. [C11.]

HSBC Condolidates Its Account
In one of the largest recent consolidations of a worldwide marketing account, HSBC Holdings decided to unite its disparate assignments at agencies owned by the WPP Group in London. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C10.]

Proposal on Health Insurance
Senate Republicans proposed tax credits, subsidies and discounts to provide health insurance to millions of Americans and to improve health care for the uninsured. [A19.]

Stocks Rise From Monday Lows
Stocks gained after benchmarks reached lows for 2004 on Monday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 8.33 points to 1,095.45. The Nasdaq index rose 35.28 points, to 1,931.35. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 29.45 points, to 10,019.47. [C11.]

Toyota Profit Increases 55%
Profit at Toyota Motor, the maker of the Camry sedan and the Lexus luxury car, increased 55 percent in the fiscal year that just ended, thanks to growing sales in all major markets and cost-cutting. Toyota also said it expected earnings to remain at about the same level for the year ahead. [World Business, Section W.]

Concern Over Terrorism Insurance
Uncertainty over whether the federal government will renew a law that provides a backstop to insurance companies in the event of a terrorist attack is causing widespread concern. Commercial Real Estate. [C7.]

Initial Offer for Investment Fund
Eric Gleacher, the former head of mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley, filed to raise $500 million in an initial public offering of an investment fund. [C7.]

Sony Cuts PlayStation Price
Sony cut the price of its PlayStation 2 video game machine to $150 to match the competition from Microsoft's Xbox. [C10.]

Tentative Deal in Hollinger Suit
Hollinger International, the newspaper publisher, said it had reached a tentative settlement with a former director. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,019.47 up 29.45Nasdaq composite -- 1,931.35 up 35.2810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.75% down 0.05The euro -- $1.1864 down 0.0003The dollar -- 113.25 yen down 0.47Graph: ''TODAY'' shows balance of trade figures from September 2003 to February 2004.Balance of TradeMarch figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$43.0 billionGraph tracks the daily closing price of Toyota A.D.R.'s shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); INSURANCE (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TAX LAW (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (70%); MERGERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (69%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SEDANS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); TERRORISM (60%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (65%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); WPP PLC (56%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%); WARNACO GROUP INC (55%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); TYT (LSE) (65%); TM (NYSE) (65%); 7203 (TSE) (65%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPP (LSE) (56%); HSBA (LSE) (55%); HSB (PAR) (55%); HBC (NYSE) (55%); 0005 (HKSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



265 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Profit For Quarter Slightly Beats Estimates

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 11 

 BODY:
Cisco Systems, the multibillion-dollar maker of Internet networking equipment that is considered a technology bellwether, reported a quarterly profit on Tuesday that narrowly exceeded investor expectations. But the company gave Wall Street a broader reason for optimism by suggesting that corporate spending on technology appears to be gaining momentum.
 Cisco's chief executive, John T. Chambers, who even amid the downturn expressed optimism about his own company's eventual fortunes, sounded more broadly positive, giving his most sanguine comments in many quarters about the immediate future of the American economy.
 Mr. Chambers said that during the fiscal third quarter, which ended May 1, product orders from United States corporate customers were up about 15 percent compared with those in the previous quarter. Mr. Chambers said the momentum could yet ebb, but he characterized it as ''the strongest in many years.'' 
 ''This is a strong indicator of an improved economy and corporate spending'' increases, Mr. Chambers said.
 With a number of measures indicating the economy is on surer footing, Mr. Chambers said he was confident enough to loosen Cisco's own purse strings, saying the company will add 1,000 jobs, mostly in sales and engineering, by the end of the year.
 As to Cisco's overall financial performance, it was characterized by Wall Street analysts as workmanlike. For the quarter, Cisco reported net income of $1.2 billion, or 17 cents a share, up 23 percent from $987 million, or 14 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sales rose 22 percent, to $5.62 billion from $4.62 billion in the quarter a year earlier, and up slightly from $5.4 billion in the second quarter.
 Excluding one-time items, Cisco had earnings per share of 19 cents, up from 15 cents in the period a year earlier. Wall Street analysts polled by Thomson First Call had expected Cisco to have earnings of 18 cents a share on that basis.
 Cisco benefited by having an extra week in the third quarter. Quarters are typically 13 weeks, but the most recent one was 14 because of a scheduling anomaly. 
 Greg Teets, a telecommunications analyst with A.G. Edwards, said the effect from the extra week was minor, and Mr. Chambers said it accounted for 3 percent to 5 percent of orders.
 ''Old Man Cisco, he just keeps on rolling,'' said Steve Kamman, an analyst with CIBC World Markets, who added that Cisco continued to perform at a consistent pace without giving investors particular reason for either enthusiasm or concern.
 Before Cisco reported its earnings, its shares closed at $22.25, up 63 cents. But after the company's earnings release, the shares dropped as low as $21.76. 
 Mr. Kamman said one reason investors might be feeling unenthusiastic about Cisco, despite its solid quarter, was that they continued to long for the higher-flying days of the dot-com boom.
 If investors ''think we're going back to 2000 or 2001, they'll be sorely disappointed until reality sets in,'' Mr. Kamman said. ''Too many people are saying there's no growth here, but this is about a company consolidating its hold on a market.''
 The company's results did not appear to suggest any problems associated with inflation, said Jim Kelleher, an analyst with Argus Research. But Mr. Kelleher said that inflationary pressures, which could manifest themselves as increases in the price Cisco pays for raw goods, might be more likely to appear in the current quarter.
 Mr. Chambers said that barring a drastic turn in the economy, Cisco expected its sales to grow 3 percent to 5 percent in the current quarter. The planned increase of 1,000 jobs would come on top of 200 jobs that were added in the third quarter. That was the first increase in head count in three years, Mr. Chambers said; the company employs around 34,000 people.
 Mr. Chambers said Cisco was taking an aggressive approach to expanding its business, but he said the actions appeared justified given what he said were increasing signs that Cisco's customers were willing to spend.
 He said that the chief executives of Cisco's customers had gone from wanting proof that there was a recovery to wondering how strong the recovery was and how long it would last. He cautioned that given the geopolitical instability and rising interest rates, Cisco could see a return to cautious spending.
 ''But we do not view this to be a likely scenario,'' Mr. Chambers said.
 By several other measures, Cisco's financial performance appeared to be steady. Its gross margin, which measures sales minus the price of producing goods, was 68.8 percent. That was up from 68.5 percent in the previous quarter.
 The company said its gross margin would be 67 percent to 69 percent in its current quarter.
 Most of Cisco's sales come from the sales of switches and routers, which are sophisticated devices to direct the flow of data, like Internet traffic. For the last several years, the company has sought to expand its business base into a new set of technologies that cater to emerging sectors like wireless networking and Internet telephony.
 Mr. Teets, the analyst with A.G. Edwards, said that Wall Street was hoping to see these businesses make up a ''bigger and bigger piece'' of Cisco's overall revenue. It appears to have succeeded to some extent; a year ago, these technologies represented 11 percent of Cisco's product sales, compared with 16 percent in its third fiscal quarter.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John T. Chambers said that in the third quarter orders from United States corporate customers were up about 15 percent. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS FRANCE (92%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems; Cisco Systems

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (92%) Matt Richtel; John T Chambers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



266 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Lie, and the Voters Will Believe

BYLINE: By Adam Clymer. 
Adam Clymer, the former Washington correspondent for The Times, is the political director of the National Annenberg Election Survey.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Americans like to say they are not influenced by campaign commercials, but then many people plainly believe the attack ads that President Bush and John Kerry are hurling at each other.
 Even people who say they learn nothing from the advertisements believe the claims made in them, the University of Pennsylvania's National Annenberg Election Survey shows. At the same time, people are remarkably unfamiliar with the candidates' true positions -- the stuff that hasn't been advertised much. 
 The Annenberg survey recently interviewed 1,026 adults in the 18 battleground states where the campaigns have been showing commercials since March. In those states, 61 percent of respondents believe Mr. Bush ''favors sending American jobs overseas'' and 56 percent believe Mr. Kerry ''voted for higher taxes 350 times.'' Both of those statements have been repeated countless times in commercials -- but neither is accurate.
 A Kerry commercial contends that ''George Bush says sending jobs overseas 'makes sense' for America.'' Mr. Bush himself never said that, nor did he sign a document saying so. What he signed was a message accompanying the annual report of his Council of Economic Advisers, a report that asserted it made sense for the United States to buy goods and services from countries that produced them more cheaply than the United States could. Standard economic thought -- although dumb politics -- but Mr. Bush never said it.
 Bush commercials, and the president himself, contend that Mr. Kerry ''voted for higher taxes 350 times.'' But this list includes occasions when Mr. Kerry voted to keep taxes at existing levels, or supported lower tax cuts than Republicans sought. Now, he is calling for higher taxes only on people earning more than $200,000 a year while promising new cuts for middle-income families.
 Most other dubious claims did not achieve majority acceptance in the battleground states. But one came close. Forty-six percent, including a majority of independents, agree that ''John Kerry wants to raise gasoline taxes by 50 cents a gallon,'' a claim of Bush ads. Mr. Kerry vaguely endorsed the idea in 1994, but now opposes it.
 In the survey, only 19 percent admit to learning something from commercials. But it's plain that is where Americans get many of their ''factual'' conclusions. The 46 percent who believe that Mr. Kerry wants to raise gas taxes could not have ''learned'' that from anything except Mr. Bush's ads. Nor could the 72 percent who say three million jobs have been lost since Mr. Bush became president (it is now fewer than two million) have drawn that conclusion from careful study of employment statistics. Democrats have sold the three million number so well that even a majority of Republican respondents believe it.
 Along with the things they know that aren't so, voters don't know things that might matter. Sixty-six percent do not know that Mr. Bush favors extending the ban on assault weapons, and 68 percent do not know that he proposes cutting the federal deficit in half. Sixty-one percent do not know that Mr. Kerry wants to eliminate tax breaks for profits made overseas and use the money to encourage companies to invest their foreign earnings in the United States, and 44 percent do not know he wants to have the government help pay to get health insurance to all children and to help employers pay their workers' costs.
 The election is still six months off. Maybe the campaigns will get around to advertising at least some of these policy positions -- but only if they run out of fantasies about what the other guy stands for. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ANNUAL REPORTS (71%); FAMILY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); GASOLINE (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Adam Clymer; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



267 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Chief of F.T.C. to Resign; Bush Selects a Successor

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 11 

 BODY:
Timothy J. Muris said on Tuesday that he had decided to step down as chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. The White House announced that President Bush had selected Deborah P. Majoras, a former top antitrust official at the Justice Department, to succeed him.
 Mr. Muris said he planned to leave this summer, remaining at the agency long enough to ensure a smooth transition, a spokeswoman at the agency, Nancy Ness Judy, said. 
 As the No.2 official in the antitrust division, Ms. Majoras played a central role in negotiating the government's settlement with Microsoft nearly three years ago. The agreement was criticized by some of Microsoft's rivals and by officials of some states, and it is likely to be discussed at her confirmation hearing in the Senate this year. 
 Ms. Majoras was also involved in a proposal to surrender some of the F.T.C.'s antitrust authority over mergers of media companies to the Justice Department. Some critics attacked the proposal, saying they thought the department might not be aggressive enough in scrutinizing such deals.
 The plan was ultimately scuttled after it ran into fierce opposition from consumer groups and from some lawmakers, notably Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, who threatened to hold up the F.T.C.'s budget over the issue.
 Last year, Ms. Majoras left the government to return to the Washington office of the law firm of Jones Day. Her clients include a number of large pharmaceutical and health care companies, including Aventis, Novartis and Tenet Healthcare.
 She has also advised clients in several significant telecommunications deals, including AT&T's purchase of Tele-Communications, Cablevision's acquisition of a group of Tele-Communications cable systems and CBS's purchase of Infinity Broadcasting, according to her biography on the Jones Day Web site.
 Mr. Muris intends to return to George Mason University, where he taught antitrust law before he became chairman of the agency in 2001, Ms. Judy, the agency spokeswoman, said. 
 He was selected by Mr. Bush after working on the presidential campaign four years ago as an adviser on economic, budget and regulatory issues. He was a staff official at the commission during the 1970's and 1980's and worked in the Office of Management and Budget for three years during the Reagan administration.
 Under the Bush administration, the F.T.C. has had a significantly lower profile than it had during the Clinton administration, in part because of different philosophical views on competition policy and in part because of market circumstances. 
 As a result of the downturn in the markets three years ago, the agency has not faced the onslaught of huge merger reviews that Clinton appointees had to conduct. But Mr. Muris and the staff he selected have also taken a less aggressive posture in some areas of competition analysis.
 But under his tenure, the agency has remained focused on anticompetitive conduct in the health care industry and has brought a number of significant cases involving collusion by drug makers. The agency under his leadership also brought cases against companies that regulators said had tried to use government regulations and industry standards to reduce competition.
 Mr. Muris led the agency in its popular crusade against telemarketers, creating a ''do not call'' registry and then successfully defending it from court challenges brought by the industry. The registry enables consumers to block solicitations by registering their phone numbers.
 ''He came with a strong ideological conservative bent and surprised everyone by steering a course that reflected the bipartisan tradition of the Federal Trade Commission,'' said Gene Kimmelman, a senior director at Consumers Union. ''He avoided partisan rancor. While he wasn't particularly aggressive in antitrust enforcement, he responded to public concern on the 'do not call' list. And he preserved the consumer protection function of the agency.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MERGERS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%) 

COMPANY: JONES DAY (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); NOVARTIS AG (54%); SANOFI SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%) Federal Trade Commission

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); NVS (NYSE) (54%); NOVN (SWX) (54%); SNY (NYSE) (54%); SANF (BIT) (54%); SAN (PAR) (54%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Timothy J Muris; Deborah P Mojoras; George W (Pres) Bush; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



268 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Gathers Tales of Health Cost Burden

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., May 11 

 BODY:
After his health insurance costs shot up 75 percent over five years, Bruce Cohen, a master plumber here, switched plans, leaving his employees with a $2,500 deductible ($7,500 for a family). Elias Estephane, owner of a local grocery store and pharmacy, recently began paying prescription co-payments for his 47 workers so they would stop choosing less-expensive -- and less-effective -- drugs. 
 And Sandi Ratliff, a saleswoman at Louisville Stoneware, is struggling to bridge the gaps between the Social Security incomes and the medical bills of her 80-year-old parents, who have moved in with her.
 Surrounded by merchants and entrepreneurs on the hot, dusty shop floor of the 63-person stoneware factory, Senator John Kerry played a political Dr. Phil on Tuesday, with the solution to each person's problems Mr. Kerry's plan to reduce health care costs. As with his proposal to change tax laws to stop companies from moving jobs overseas, much of Mr. Kerry's health care plan is geared toward small businesses, which he sees as the engine of the nation's economy. 
 ''I want to liberate small-business people from this burden so they can go out and create the jobs of the future,'' Mr. Kerry told the audience of several dozen, who were surrounded by 20 tons of clay as well as unfinished pots, pineapple-shaped jars and mugs painted with racehorses.
 In addition to cutting insurance costs by reducing bureaucratic waste and transferring responsibility for the most serious illnesses to the federal government, Mr. Kerry would allow small businesses to participate in the insurance program now offered to members of Congress. He would also give those businesses a tax credit to cover up to 50 percent of the premiums for workers who earn less than three times the poverty level, or about $55,000 a year for a family of four.
 That sounded good to Mr. Cohen, who said that he had to cut his contribution to his workers' premiums to 75 percent from 100 percent, and that he could no longer help pay any of the premiums for his workers' families. 
 ''I don't see any letup,'' Mr. Cohen, 55, who had a heart attack on May 1, told Mr. Kerry. ''Get elected. I don't see any letup in sight at all.'' 
 Mr. Estephane and his pharmacist, Steven Ramsey, told Mr. Kerry that they filled an average of 100 prescriptions daily at the Meat Store Food & Drug, and frequently saw customers adjusting doctors' orders in hopes of saving $1 or $2.
 ''There is something terribly wrong with the system,'' Mr. Estephane said, noting that he had replaced some full-time workers with part-timers because health premiums cost him about $100,000 a year.
 Turning to Mr. Ramsey, Mr. Kerry asked, ''How often does someone come in and say, 'Gee, I really need this but I can't afford it?'''
 ''Every day,'' Mr. Ramsey said, adding that he worked with local charities to provide such medicines.
 Experts estimate that Mr. Kerry's plan would cost at least $650 billion over the next decade. Mr. Kerry proposes to pay for it by rolling back tax cuts for people earning more than $200,000, which could generate $800 billion to $900 billion. The Bush campaign has said Mr. Kerry's plans for health care and other programs are so expensive that he would need to raise taxes even further.
 The 50-minute conversation on Tuesday, before a hotel luncheon here at which Mr. Kerry raised $750,000 for his campaign, came on the second day of a four-day focus on health care. Between higher-profile speeches and the photo-opportunity tours of schools and such, Mr. Kerry often squeezes in such small forums, using the stories he hears to humanize his speeches later.
 Anthony Urbaites, the president of the 189-year-old stoneware company, said he got a call on Saturday from Kerry headquarters in Washington, asking to use his factory for the event. Mr. Urbaites, who wore an American flag pin and would not say whom he voted for in 2000, was happy to play host: ''It's fantastic exposure for us and our brand,'' he said.
 Mr. Cohen, who referred to himself in an interview as ''John Q. Business Owner,'' said he had occasionally given money to candidates and received a similar call on Sunday.
 ''They didn't want me to wear a suit,'' said Mr. Cohen, who wore a short-sleeved blue button-down with his plumbing company's logo, a green embroidered wrench, over the breast pocket. ''They told me to come the way you go to work every day. So I'm the only guy here not in a suit.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry wants to reduce health insurance costs for small businesses. He met yesterday with workers at a health clinic in Louisville, Ky. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); HEART DISEASE (64%); MEAT STORES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) John (Sen) Kerry; Jodi Wilgoren

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisville (Ky) 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



269 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Bush Imposes Sanctions on Syria, Citing Ties to Terrorism

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 11 

 BODY:
After months of debate within his administration, President Bush imposed economic sanctions against Syria on Tuesday, charging that it has failed to take action against terrorist groups fighting Israel and halt the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq.
 Mr. Bush issued an executive order banning virtually all American exports, except for food and medicine, and barring flights between Syria and the United States, except during emergencies. The president also told the Treasury Department to freeze the assets of Syrians with known ties to terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, the occupation of Lebanon or terrorist activities in Iraq. 
 In the near term, the action is largely symbolic, since trade with Syria, at about $300 million a year, is insubstantial and Syrian airlines do not fly to the United States. Moreover, the trade ban does not preclude investment, though American firms like ConocoPhillips and Chevron, which currently do business in Syria, will be required to turn to foreign suppliers to service their operations there, a State Department spokesman said. 
 The punitive steps had been anxiously sought by some members of Congress, which, in 2003, passed the Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act. The act requires the president to select from a menu of penalties in punishing Syria. In his action on Wednesday, Mr. Bush went beyond the list's requirements.
 Representative Eliot L. Engel, a New York Democrat who was a co-author of the legislation, said Syria has been playing an increasingly destructive role in the Middle East and has ignored American appeals to crack down on militant groups like Hamas and the Islamic Jihad and to disengage from occupied Lebanon.
 ''The United States government is sending a loud and clear message to the leaders of Syria that we will no longer turn a blind eye to their transgressions,'' said Mr. Engel. ''The ball is now in Damascus's court.''
 The United States has long had strained relations with Syria, which Washington designated a state sponsor of terrorism in 1979. Ties improved briefly, in 1990, when Damascus joined the American-led coalition against Saddam Hussein and took part in the Middle East peace conference in Madrid the following year. 
 Subsequent talks aiming at establishing peace with Israel foundered and ultimately broke down in 2000, months before President Hafez al-Assad died. His son and successor, Bashar al-Assad, is widely seen as constrained by his father's old advisers.
 Administration officials were divided over the sanctions, with some voicing concerns that they would further antagonize Arabs alarmed by the American handling of Iraqi prisoners or the administration's support for ceding parts of the West Bank to Israel.
 Patrick Clawson, the deputy director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said the president apparently delayed his announcement until after Arab leaders had set the terms of debate for their next summit talks, this month in Tunisia.
 Ammar Arsan, a spokesman for the Syrian Embassy in Washington, said his country was already receiving strong support within the Arab League. He predicted that the measures would have ''no impact on our economic situation,'' given growing trade ties with investors from Europe and elsewhere.
 Mr. Arsan also said his government would never compromise its political independence because of economic pressure from Washington.
 ''The United States needs to review its policy toward the Middle East and recognize that relations between nations are based on mutual respect, and not sanctions or an escalation of tensions in the relationship,'' he said. 
 In deciding on sanctions, Mr. Bush went beyond the lawmakers' list to order American financial institutions to cut any ties with the Commercial Bank of Syria, citing money laundering concerns. The president explicitly barred the export of military equipment or dual-use items like chemicals, nuclear technology and propulsion equipment, and he threatened to take other measures if Syria did not ''take serious and concrete steps'' to change its behavior. 
 Among other things, Mr. Bush cited the need for Syria to ''cooperate fully with the international community in promoting the stabilization and reconstruction of Iraq.''
 The White House charged that Syria provided military support to Iraq's president, Saddam Hussein, on the eve of the American invasion last year and said that even with Syria's having taken some steps to control its border, the country remains a transit point for foreign fighters infiltrating Iraq. It also accused Syria of failing to transfer $200 million in frozen Iraqi assets to a development fund for Iraq, as required by a United Nations resolution.
 Edward P. Djerejian, a former ambassador to Syria who is now a Middle East expert at Rice University, said the president had intentionally left open the possibility of additional sanctions -- including targeting the energy sector -- as a prod for better compliance. He predicted that Tuesday's announcement would revive a debate in Damascus between the conservative ''old guard'' and would-be reformers who want to ease confrontation with Washington. 
 Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Miami Republican who was an original sponsor of the Syria Accountability Act, expressed satisfaction with the president's announcement.
 ''He went beyond what was asked of him,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HAMAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); AIRLINES (71%); RELIGION (69%) 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%); HAMAS (59%) Treasury Department; Hamas (Palestinian Group); Islamic Jihad

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (69%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ELIOT L ENGEL (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Christopher Marquis; George W (Pres) Bush; Eliot L (Rep) Engel

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (97%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); TUNISIA (79%) Syria; Iraq; Israel; Lebanon; Syria

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



270 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Jittery Industry Pushes for Renewal of Terrorism Insurance Law

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Uncertainty over whether the federal government will renew a law providing a backstop to insurance companies in the event of a terrorist attack is causing widespread concern in the commercial real estate industry, particularly among those who do business in areas that are considered potential targets.
 Proponents of extending the 2002 Terrorism Risk Insurance Act -- which is due to expire at the end of 2005 -- say that it is needed to prevent a return of conditions after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when many lenders refused to cover terrorist acts or charged prohibitively high rates for the coverage.
 Ending the federal program, said Douglas Durst, the New York developer who has two projects under construction in Manhattan, including the 51-story Bank of America tower on 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas, ''would seriously impact our ability to go forward with our new buildings.''
 Although the program has bipartisan support in Congress, officials of the Department of the Treasury have expressed some reservations about whether it should continue. And opposition has come from the Consumer Federation of America, which says that the insurance industry can well afford to assume the risk of terrorism on its own. 
 The terrorism insurance law requires the federal government to cover 90 percent of combined damages in excess of $12.5 billion this year (rising to $15 billion next year) up to $100 billion. It covers only acts that occur within the United States that are committed by people acting on behalf of a foreign person or cause.
 The statute has another 18 months to run, but a more immediate deadline is looming. By Sept. 1, the Treasury secretary must decide whether to extend a provision that requires insurance companies to make terrorism coverage available. If the Treasury Department does not grant the extension, the provision will expire on Dec. 31. Anne Womack Kolton, a department spokeswoman, could not say whether the department would act before the deadline. ''We want to make a very thorough examination of the issue before making a decision,'' she said.
 The Sept. 1 deadline is too late for many insurance companies, according to a recent General Accounting Office report. ''Insurers,'' the report said, ''need to make underwriting, price and coverage decisions for these policies in mid-2004.'' Gail Davis Cardwell, a senior vice president at the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group, said that some insurance policies that expire in June are being renewed only through the end of the year.
 Testifying before two House of Representatives subcommittees on April 28, Gregory V. Serio, superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department, urged that the decision be made sooner. He called the insurance measure ''a key factor in stabilizing and re-energizing New York's economy.''
 At the hearing, Wayne A. Abernathy, assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions, said the department would not decide whether to support the renewal of the terrorism insurance law itself until June 2005, when it completes a mandatory report on whether the measure, which was intended to be temporary, is still needed. 
 Under questioning, he said that if the federal government continued to provide a backstop, the insurance industry might be discouraged from developing methods for assessing and pricing the risk from terrorism.
 But Robert J. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Industry Institute, a trade association, said that unless the terrorism insurance coverage was reauthorized this year, negotiations for next year's property insurance renewals would become more complicated. Not knowing whether the backstop will be available would be bad not just for owners, but also for investors, Mr. Hartwig said.
 Until Sept. 11, 2001, insurers had considered the risk of terrorism so low that it was included in property and casualty coverage without being priced separately. After the attack, however, many insurance companies stopped providing terrorism coverage or made it extremely costly.
 In a survey conducted in 2002, the Mortgage Bankers Association found that nearly $8 billion worth of transactions in the first half of the year were either halted or delayed because of a lack of terrorism insurance coverage, Ms. Davis Cardwell said. The ratings agencies downgraded about $7.5 billion in commercial real estate securities because of concerns about inadequate terrorism insurance, the mortgage bankers' group said.
 Since that time, however, terrorism insurance has become widely available, not just from traditional insurers but also from new companies, and prices have become competitive, said Richard A. Chicotel, the chief financial officer for Shorenstein, a San Francisco company that owns 20 million square feet of property throughout the nation. 
 Mr. Chicotel said he would like the federal program to continue to keep prices down, but he said its continuation was less crucial for landlords with large and geographically diverse portfolios that spread the risk. Shorenstein buys blanket policies covering all its properties from a syndicate of 15 carriers, he said. 
 The Coalition to Insure Against Terrorism, made up of nearly 60 trade associations, corporations and nonprofit organizations, has been clamoring for renewal of the law. Yet surveys have shown that few policyholders are taking advantage of the coverage. Commercial brokers who responded to a survey released in March by the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers, a trade group, said that only 20 percent of their clients were buying the coverage (yet 80 percent of the respondents said the program should be extended).
 Marsh, a global insurance brokerage company, recently surveyed its offices around the country and found that the number of policyholders buying the coverage had increased each quarter, rising to 27.3 percent by last fall. The Northeast had the highest rate of participation (30.3 percent) and the West the least (18.6 percent), but the company said the figures represented the region where the insurance order was placed, not necessarily the location of the property.
 According to the General Accounting Office, most of the policyholders buying terrorism coverage are in the high-risk areas. Insurance Services Office, a company in Jersey City that advises property and casualty insurers on risk and liability, has identified New York, Washington, San Francisco and Chicago as high-risk cities and Boston, Seattle, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Houston as cities where the risk is moderate. The remaining 95 percent of the country is viewed as low risk, according to David Dasgupta, a spokesman for the Insurance Services Office. 
 Stephen L. Gaitley, the real estate practice leader at Woodruff-Sawyer, an insurance brokerage company in San Francisco, said the classification developed by Insurance Services Office was a ''fair reflection of how underwriters are viewing'' the terrorism risk.
 Given that the insurance industry itself believes that most of the country is not at risk, the Consumer Federation of America argues that there is no justification for continuing the federal backstop program. If one exists at all, a federal reinsurance plan could be aimed at the areas where the risk is greatest, said J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the federation, which represents 270 consumer groups. ''If you're going to cover it,'' Mr. Hunter said, ''make sure you cover only the minimum necessary.'' 
 Last month, the federation suggested that a more limited program would impose an industrywide deductible of $50 billion after taxes for the first year, increasing by $10 billion a year after that. (Insurance losses from the Sept. 11 attacks have been estimated at $40 billion before taxes.) Insurers should be required to pay a bigger share of the losses and should be charged a premium for the reinsurance provided by the government, the federation said.
 ''There is no reason,'' the federation report said, ''why taxpayers should subsidize the wealthy property/casualty insurance industry in the provision of terrorism insurance.''
 But Mr. Hartwig of the Insurance Industry Institute described the federation's opposition as a ''knee jerk'' reaction from the industry's long-standing antagonist. ''In the end,'' he said, ''this is not an insurance industry issue. It's an issue for corporate America.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Commercial Real Estate article in Business Day yesterday, about mold insurance, misstated the name of an industry group and an initial of its chief economist. (The errors also occurred in an article in Business Day on May 12 about terrorism insurance.) The group is the Insurance Information Institute, not the Insurance Industry Institute; the economist is Robert P. Hartwig, not Robert J.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Assessing Risk''Estimates of danger of terrorism to various United States locations. The estimates were prepared by the Insurance Services Office, a company that advises insurers on risk and liability. The assessments were based on a model developed in part from information provided by counterterrorism officials.Tier 1, High HazardChicagoNew York CitySan FranciscoWashington, D.C.Tier 2, Moderate HazardBostonHoustonLos AngelesPhiladelphiaSeattleTier 3, Low HazardRemainder of the United States(Source by Insurance Services Office)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through March.Graph tracks new privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, from 2000 through March 2004.NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSMAR. '03: 143.5JAN. '04: 126.5FEB. '04: 131.2MAR. '04: 183.6(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)Map of United States highlighting states in high, moderate and low hazard zones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INSURANCE (92%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: Douglas Durst; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



271 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Some Critics Of Wal-Mart Joining Forces To Change It

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Union leaders, academics and community activists plan to hold an unusual meeting in Washington today to begin mapping out a strategy to check Wal-Mart's growing power and to press the company to improve its wages and benefits.
 The meeting was organized largely because union leaders fear that Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest company, is pushing down wages and benefits, not just among retailers but throughout the economy.
 Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, convened the meeting, which will bring together union leaders, professors who have studied Wal-Mart and leaders of Acorn and other community groups. Organizers also said that Barbara Ehrenreich, the author of ''Nickel and Dimed,'' an account of making a living as a blue-collar worker, would attend. 
 The meeting, several participants said, will not focus on developing strategies to unionize Wal-Mart but rather on assessing Wal-Mart's influence on the nation and on strategies to check Wal-Mart's downward pull on wages.
 Mr. Stern has begun a blog that seeks to stimulate a conversation not just within labor, but among many groups, about Wal-Mart, which has more than 3,500 stores and 1.2 million employees nationwide. 
 In his blog, Mr. Stern wrote, ''Wal-Mart provides a chilling example of the damage that low-wage, nonunion corporations can wreak, and their business model is going to set the standards for our children unless we do something now.'' 
 He added, ''Wal-Mart is the sewer pipe through which good jobs are being flushed.''
 Sarah Clark, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company knew little about the meeting. ''We believe that we pay good and fair wages and offer a comprehensive benefit package,'' she said. ''There are numerous groups who do not want us to succeed for their own reasons.''
 Ms. Clark said Wal-Mart's full-time hourly workers averaged $9.64 an hour, or $18,046 a year. She added that Wal-Mart's critics often ignored that the company contributes to employee 401(k) plans and promotes more than 9,000 hourly workers each year into management.
 She said that while critics say 40 percent of Wal-Mart's workers do not have company health insurance, 90 percent of its employees have health benefits through some plan -- perhaps a spouse's or through state Medicaid.
 Many union officials have complained that the United Food and Commercial Workers, the union with jurisdiction to unionize Wal-Mart, has done too little to try to organize the retailer and has been highly unsuccessful in those efforts.
 ''Wal-Mart has been very difficult,'' said Joe Hansen, president of the food and commercial workers union. ''It's the largest corporation in the world. They fly in this task force that terrorizes the workers the minute anyone talks about unions.''
 Wal-Mart officials say the company is not antiunion and lets workers decide freely whether they want a union.
 Labor's concerns about Wal-Mart have grown after the four-and-a-half-month labor dispute in which Southern California's three largest supermarket chains won the right to cut wages and benefits for new workers. Supermarket executives asserted that they needed to reduce pay to compete with Wal-Mart as it expanded in California.
 One idea that will be under consideration at the meeting, several participants said, is to issue a set of principles, like the Sullivan principles for South Africa, that Wal-Mart would be urged to follow regarding wages and treatment of its workers.
 ''My sense is they view this as a decade-long struggle,'' said Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who organized a conference last month on Wal-Mart and will be attending the meeting.
 John Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union, has recommended that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. focus on just two things after the November elections: politics and finding ways to press Wal-Mart to improve wages and benefits. Several A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials are expected to attend the Washington meeting.
 ''Wal-Mart is the largest employer in the U.S.,'' Mr. Wilhelm said. ''It's incredibly pervasive in its race-to-the-bottom influence.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on May 12 about a meeting of union leaders, educators and community activists to press Wal-Mart to improve its wages and benefits referred imprecisely to remarks by Sarah Clark, a company spokeswoman. While she said 90 percent of Wal-Mart's employees have health benefits through some plan, she did not specifically cite state Medicaid as an option; it was mentioned by the writer as an example.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); RETAILERS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); WRITERS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Service Employees International Union; Acorn (Orgn)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Andrew Stern; Barbara Ehrenreich

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



272 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming Ignites Tempers, Even in a Movie

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN; Jennifer 8. Lee contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 11 

 BODY:
Any studio that makes a $125 million movie about global warming is courting controversy. But 20th Century Fox does not seem to have fully anticipated the political firestorm being whipped up by its film ''The Day After Tomorrow.'' 
 Environmental advocates are using the film's release, scheduled for May 28, as an opening to slam the Bush administration, whose global warming policies they oppose. Industry groups in Washington are lobbying on Capitol Hill to make sure the film does not help passage of a bill limiting carbon-dioxide emissions, which many scientists say contribute to global warming. 
 Meanwhile on Tuesday Fox sparred with celebrity advocates who complained that they had been disinvited to the movie's premiere, only to be reinvited later in the day.
 All this is occurring as the entertainment industry is on the defensive, with television networks acknowledging they are censoring themselves to avoid being accused of promoting indecency and the Walt Disney Company distancing itself from a film critical of the administration's foreign policy.
 In a telephone news conference on Tuesday former Vice President Al Gore compared the exaggeration of the film's premise to the approach of the Bush administration to global warming. 
 ''There are two sets of fiction to deal with,'' Mr. Gore said. ''One is the movie, the other is the Bush administration's presentation of global warming.'' He accused the White House of ''trying to convince people there's no real problem, no degree of certainty from scientists about the issue.'' The news conference was organized by moveon.org, an Internet-based liberal advocacy group. 
 Dana Perino, the spokeswoman for the Council on Environmental Quality, which coordinates environmental policy for the White House, said the administration's policies would reduce global warming threats without destroying jobs.
 ''While they're working on movies,'' she said, ''we are advancing our scientific knowledge, developing transformational energy technologies and reducing the greenhouse-gas intensity of the American economy.''
 Early this week Laurie David and Robert Kennedy Jr., vocal anti-Bush environmentalists, said that Fox had withdrawn their invitation to the film's premiere in Manhattan but later called to reconfirm the invitation.
 In between, a Fox spokesman said the studio had arranged a special screening for them and Mr. Gore a day before the premiere, and another screening for scientists.
 Ultimately Fox chalked the invitation issue up to miscommunication. 
 Invited or not, Ms. David, a prominent member of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said Fox rejected an offer to have the premiere serve as a fund-raiser for any one of numerous environmental groups. (Studios often use premieres as charitable fund-raisers.)
 Before learning from Jim Gianopulos, Fox Studio's chairman, that her invitation to the premiere had been reinstated, Ms. David said: ''Fox is completely disinterested in raising any consciousness. In fact they're bending over backward to disassociate themselves from the environmental community.'' 
 She continued, ''Any connections to anything political they're afraid will hurt the opening.'' 
 A Fox spokesman denied any attempt to play down the movie's environmental message or to distance the film from activists. ''Clearly the movie is entertainment, but all of this activity creates additional interest, making it more topical,'' Jeffrey Godsick, the spokesman, said. ''It's been wonderful.''
 Directed by Roland Emmerich, ''The Day After Tomorrow'' imagines a catastrophic climate change and the rapid arrival of a new ice age caused by global warming. Massive storms destroy Western Europe, Manhattan is covered in a sheet of ice, and tornadoes blast Los Angeles.
 The film's trailer shows Dennis Quaid, who plays a paleoclimatologist, warning the vice president -- played by an actor who closely resembles Vice President Dick Cheney -- that ''if we don't act now, it will be too late.''
 Fox, which financed the big-budget movie, is part of News Corporation, whose chairman and chief executive, Rupert Murdoch, is a strong supporter of Mr. Bush. Mr. Godsick said he did not know if Mr. Murdoch had seen the film.
 Mr. Kennedy, an environmental lawyer, said on Tuesday that Fox's attitude toward environmentalists seemed comparable to other instances of self-censorship by media corporations in a politically charged climate.
 ''This is part of an unfortunate pattern that fits in with CBS canceling the Reagan mini-series and Disney refusing to distribute Michael Moore's film'' ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' he said in an interview before his invitation to the premiere was reinstated. He was referring to recent controversies over political considerations affecting entertainment decisions.
 ''This is like back to the 1950's and 60's, where people in Hollywood were scared to death of Joe McCarthy, censoring artists, not distributing films, blackballing people,'' he said. ''It's a classic thing that you're supposed to avoid in democracy, the merger of state and corporate power.''
 Mr. Godsick said that Fox, which plans to spend about $50 million to market the film, was not keeping any interested party at arm's length. The marketing strategy had no connection to the other recent episodes in Hollywood, he said.
 ''Look, different groups have different agendas,'' Mr. Godsick said. ''Some are to politicize things, some are to go beyond that. The real power of the movie is to raise consciousness on the issue. That's a win-win for everybody.''
 The studio's Web site promoting the film, thedayaftertomorrow.com, does not include the words ''global warming'' in its synopsis of the story. But the site does include a section labeled ''What can you do?'' with a link to Future Forests, a nonprofit British group that promotes limiting carbon-dioxide emissions.
 Mr. Emmerich ensured that the movie production participated in CarbonNeutral, a program that involves buying credits to offset carbon-dioxide emissions created during the movie's filming, Mr. Godsick said.
 Fox marketing executives have expressed concern that the movie not be perceived as a scientific ''treatise,'' as one executive put it, emphasizing that its appeal is as an action-adventure, roller-coaster-style experience.
 Moveon.org said it planned to have thousands of volunteers handing out leaflets about global warming outside theaters when the movie opens. Meanwhile in Washington a coalition of industry groups, including the National Association of Manufacturers, is working to make sure that the movie does not contribute to the passage of a bill limiting carbon-dioxide emissions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CENSORSHIP (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); WALT DISNEY CO (69%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%)

PERSON: AL GORE (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Sharon Waxman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2004



273 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Education Law Will Stand, Bush Tells Its Detractors

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: VAN BUREN, Ark., May 11 

 BODY:
President Bush answered the growing number of critics of the ''No Child Left Behind'' education law that he made a centerpiece of his domestic agenda, declaring in a school gymnasium Tuesday that ''we're not backing down'' to those who say the federal government is setting unrealistic academic standards.
 In what was billed as an official appearance that appeared to have more than a little mix of election-year politics -- Senator John Kerry comes to Arkansas on Wednesday -- Mr. Bush offered his most detailed defense yet of the law's effort to link federal aid to student performance. Democrats have said he has failed to finance the program as fully as his administration promised. 
 The president's appearance came as his campaign prepared to unveil a new advertising effort on Wednesday featuring Laura Bush highlighting the education law. The spot is designed to reach undecided female voters through the Web sites they frequent. 
 Speaking to an invited crowd of students, parents and teachers here in western Arkansas, Mr. Bush said states, not the federal government, should control what happens in the classroom as long as federal standards are met. He made no direct reference to the 14 states that asked the administration two months ago for permission to use alternative methods for showing academic gains under the law. But Mr. Bush appeared to be addressing officials in some of those states when he said: ''I don't care how much pressure they try to put on the process. I'm not changing my mind about high standards and the need for accountability, because I know the promise that holds out.'' 
 Mr. Bush carried Arkansas narrowly in 2000, and it is considered a swing state this year. 
 Mr. Kerry's aides say he plans to use the state's most famous native, former President Bill Clinton, to campaign on his behalf. 
 On Tuesday the Kerry campaign reached for Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who dropped out of the race for the Democratic nomination this year, to answer Mr. Bush. 
 ''It's billions of dollars short in funding, and that reflects the president's budget priorities,'' General Clark, who is retired, said in a conference call with reporters. Because of the cutbacks, he said, Arkansas lost $68 million in federal financing it would otherwise have received. 
 Mr. Bush's visit also drew criticism from the president of the Arkansas Education Association, Sid Johnson, who said in a statement that a quarter of the state's schools were judged to have failed to meet ''adequate yearly progress'' in the last year and who criticized the legislation for ''flaws that make implementation nearly impossible.'' The association is the Arkansas affiliate of the National Education Association, which supported Mr. Kerry in the primaries and seems all but certain to do so in the general election.
 Concerned about the growing criticism of the law's execution, the Education Department has issued limited exceptions for meeting its standards. But Mr. Bush said Tuesday he was giving no ground.
 ''We don't need people making excuses,'' he said at Butterfield Junior High School, as students and parents fanned themselves in a gym that became so overheated that Mr. Bush said he was ending his comments ''before some of us fall out.'' 
 ''If you have low standards for every child, don't be surprised at what you get,'' he said. ''High standards don't set our children on a path to failure. High standards set our children on a path to success.''
 The law requires schools to test students to assure that they meet learning targets in fundamental skills. If a school fails to improve over a number of years, the legislation provides economic help to parents who seek to take their children elsewhere. Mr. Bush argued today that fourth-grade math tests and eighth-grade reading tests show that scores are rising on average.
 The White House, seeking to answer accusations that the legislation is underfinanced, turned out a fact sheet on Tuesday that said its 2005 budget request, if approved, would represent a 49 percent increase for elementary and secondary education since the 2001 fiscal year. 
 Mrs. Bush joins the fray with the new education spot, in which she says, ''The president is so committed to education reform because he looks at schools as a parent looks at schools.''
 Campaign aides said Mrs. Bush was the logical choice to appear in the Internet advertisement because, as a former teacher and librarian, she has particularly high credibility.
 ''One, she's very popular with voters,'' said Matthew Dowd, a senior Bush election adviser. ''Two, she's seen as very strong on education.''
 The advertisement will appear on more than 50 Internet sites, many of them popular with women, like Foodtv.com and InStyle.com, campaign aides said.
 A 30-second spot similarly highlighting Mr. Bush's education record is to begin this week on cable and on some stations in 18 swing states on Wednesday, campaign aides said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Education and Schools; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: Arkansas Education Assn

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) David E Sanger; Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Wesley K (Gen) (Ret) Clark; Laura Bush; Sid Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arkansas; United States; van buren (ark) 

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



274 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: In Pacific, a Red Carpet For China's Rich Tourists

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: AGANA, Guam 

 BODY:
Bearing brochures of snorkelers and tropical fish, golfers and palm trees, Guam's governor, Felix P. Camacho, traveled to Beijing last fall. In a round-trip journey of more than 5,000 miles, he pursued the latest holy grail of Asia: the Chinese tourist.
 Within a few years, their number in Guam could match the number of Japanese tourists, Governor Camacho announced before setting off from this capital city. That would be a huge change; last year almost three-quarters of Guam's 909,506 foreign tourists were Japanese; fewer than 1 percent were Chinese. And, he noted the average Chinese tourist spends $1,500 shopping, almost triple what the average Japanese visitor spends on Guam, a volcanic island in the Western Pacific.
 Weeks later, the decision filtered back here that Beijing would allow Chinese group tourism to Micronesia. But it was Saipan, a tourism rival to Guam 130 miles north of here, that got China Southern Airlines' twice-weekly charter flights from Shanghai, starting last month. 
 ''We have seen them moving very aggressively,'' Governor Camacho said glumly of his competitors. Referring to Beijing's plan to give ''approved destination status'' to Saipan this summer, he added, ''We are moving as quickly and aggressively to get it for ourselves, too.''
 All across the Pacific, even in Japan, officials are vying to net the elusive, wealthy Chinese tourist, seen as the big-spending successor to the Arab tourists of the 1970's, fueled by oil dollars, and the brandaholic Japanese shoppers of the 80's and 90's.
 In fact, China and Japan traded places as tourism powers last year, according to statistics from the two countries. About 15 million Chinese tourists traveled overseas, a 47 percent jump from the previous year compared with 13.2 million Japanese, a 19.5 percent decline. 
 ''The numbers are overwhelming,'' said Bartley A. Jackson, general manager here of the Pacific Island Club, a resort with a branch in Saipan. ''If just 1 percent of the population can afford to come to Guam or Saipan, that is a tremendous market to draw from.''
 The Chinese now dominate or account for a large slice of foreign tourism in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia.
 They are also starting to flow into more expensive destinations like Japan and Hawaii. 
 Australia is expecting that Chinese tourists, who accounted for 3.7 percent of the country's overseas visitor arrivals last year, will account for 11.1 percent in 2013 -- outpacing the Japanese tourists, whose share, 13.2 percent last year, is expected to dip to 10.6 percent. 
 Behind the forecasts of growth in Chinese tourism are China's booming economy and two crucial moves by the government last fall to placate the growing middle class. Instead of just a restricted pool of residents of Beijing, Shanghai and Guanzhou, residents of about 100 second-tier cities also were allowed to travel abroad. The government also increased the amount of foreign exchange a person may take out of the country, to $6,000 from $2,000.
 Hong Kong is bracing for the arrival this year of 11.5 million Chinese tourists, part of a forecast increase in overall tourism to Hong Kong by a third, to 20.5 million. To cope, Hong Kong officials have debated converting cruise ships and public housing into temporary hotels.
 Here in Guam, a far-flung territory of the United States, officials say that efforts to increase Chinese tourism could help cut China's huge trade surplus with this country, $124 billion last year. A similar approach was taken with the Japanese in the 1980's, and the policy soon made the United States their top overseas travel destination. Japanese tourists to the United States still widely outnumber those from China, 3.17 million to 271,438 last year.
 Guam, at the southern end of the 15-island Mariana chain, received 725 Chinese tourists in 2003, while Saipan and the rest of the Northern Mariana Islands received 15,213. The difference is that Guam's northern neighbor controls its immigration, while Guam is under United States law. 
 The Guam authorities, however, have been working with United States consular officials in China and Department of Homeland Security officials in Washington on visa changes to allow for Guam-only travel and new technology for rapid, reliable identification of tourists. 
 On a recent visit to Hawaii, Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security, discussed the proposal for a Hawaii-only visa and supported the state's bid to win ''approved destination status'' from Beijing. He and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell have spoken out this spring about taking measures to reverse the 30 percent drop in overseas visitors to the United States since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
 Efforts by America's Pacific islands and others to attract tourists from China coincide with a sharpened awareness of tourism's fickle nature, with Japan as a prime example.
 Last year's 19.5 percent drop in the number of Japanese tourists who went abroad cut the total to roughly the level of a decade ago. Fear of terrorism contributed to a 12.6 percent decline in Japanese tourism to the United States, and fear of the SARS virus cut Japanese tourism to China by 22.5 percent, to 2.25 million.
 Japanese tourists arrive in Guam on direct, three-hour flights from seven Japanese cities. In a typical year, about 1.25 million people, or 1 percent of Japan's population, vacation in Guam or the Northern Marianas. But last year, Japanese visits to Guam fell 16 percent, the third drop in three years. Then, for the first quarter this year, the number increased 59 percent from the comparable period of 2003, to 237,690.
 With a strong yen, a mild economic recovery in Japan and a recent SARS outbreak in China apparently contained, travel experts forecast that overall overseas travel by Japanese will rebound this spring.
 Still, as in most business sectors, the dynamic growth is expected to take place in China, where the population is 10 times that of Japan. In a decade, Chinese air traffic is forecast to hit 215 million passengers a year, about 10 percent more than the level forecast for Japan. To prepare, Chinese airlines are buying dozens of jets. And beyond the country's borders, the hunt for Chinese tourists continues apace.
 In Korea, airlines call their flights to China golden lines, flights that are the most profitable for the country's two airlines, Korean Air and Asiana Airlines. With passenger traffic between the countries growing about 20 percent a year, authorities recently permitted the two airlines to add 53 flights a week to China. Most passengers are Korean.
 With the number of Chinese flying to Korea on Korean Air expected to jump by a third this year, to 800,000, Yi Taek Shim, vice chairman of the airline, predicted: ''In three or four years, the number of Chinese flying here will equal the number of Koreans flying to China. We are very attractive to China, less than two hours flying time from most Chinese cities.''
 Japan, which for years regarded tourists from China as illegal immigrants in disguise, is now trying to attract wealthy Chinese visitors. In February, 20 Japanese cities participated in the Shanghai World Tourism Expo. And Japanese airlines have been fighting fiercely over the lucrative Chinese market.
 ''China is our fastest-growing market,'' Isao Kaneko, chief executive of the JAL Group, the parent of Japan's largest airline, said in a recent interview in Tokyo. ''The result is 200 round-trip flights a week from here to China.''
 Most seats are filled by Japanese tourists and business travelers visiting China, though JAL is trying to encourage more Chinese to go to Japan.
 JAL's main competitor, All Nippon Airways, bolstered by a new China division, plans to have 112 round-trip flights a week between Japan and China this summer, 26 percent more than last summer, and will soon offer Chinese on the language menus of its airport check-in machines. 
 Japanese airlines now fly to 23 Chinese cities, from barely a dozen a decade ago. Still, though Beijing started to allow Chinese group travel to Japan five years ago, Chinese tourists accounted for only 3.5 percent of the 2.7 million people who flew between the countries last year. Japan will issue visas only to residents of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, and the trip is expensive. From Shanghai, a five-day package tour of Tokyo and Osaka costs about four times what a snorkel and golf tour in Guam generally costs.
 ''Just 1 percent of the global Chinese market would bring our island 70,000 Chinese visitors a year,'' Guam's governor said in his weekly radio address in late March.
 With only a 54 Chinese visiting Guam that month, there are, understandably, skeptics.
 These are ''the gloomiest naysayers on Guam, who say that there isn't a chance of developing any tourism with China,'' Joe Murphy, a retired editor of The Pacific Daily News, wrote recently in a column, adding, ''These are the same people, who 35 years ago, said that no self-respecting Japanese would ever come to Guam, 'the Rock.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese tourists at a mall in Tokyo. Japan's largest airline says China is its fastest-growing market. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)Map of the Pacific Ocean highlighting Guam: Guam is among the Pacific destinations seeking Chinese visitors. (pg. W7)Graph: ''Setting Out''A booming economy and fewer government restrictions on international travel have contributed to the growing number of Chinese traveling abroad.Graph tracks Chinese outbound travelers since 1993. (Sources by China National Tourism Administration
 China Tourism and Cruise Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); WATER SPORTS (78%); GOLF (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AIRLINES (72%); STATISTICS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%) Travel and Vacations; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES CO LTD (84%)

TICKER: ZNH (NYSE) (84%); K3TD (SGX) (84%); 1055 (HKSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

PERSON: Felix P (Gov) Camacho; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) GUAM (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); ASIA (92%); MACAO (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Guam; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



275 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3; BLOCKS

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Planners Consider a Riverfront Without the F.D.R. Drive

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
AS Boston dismantles its Central Artery, the elevated roadway that stood forbiddingly between downtown and the waterfront, New York City officials are asking whether it is time to take down the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, the elevated roadway that stands forbiddingly between downtown and the waterfront.
 Demolition of the F.D.R. viaduct will be considered by the city's newly designated planning consultants for the East River waterfront in Lower Manhattan: the Richard Rogers Partnership of London, a leading British architectural firm, and SHoP/Sharples Holden Pasquarelli, a seven-year-old firm whose office is downtown.
 It is an article of faith among planners that cities ought to be reunited with their waterfronts. For instance, the colossal structural centipede known as the Central Artery is now being dismantled as part of the Big Dig project, leaving Bostonians to marvel at swaths of sky they have never seen before or to celebrate the return of a more human scale to the downtown cityscape, even if they have no idea what will come next. 
 Opening up such space along the East River has an innate appeal.
 ''Certainly, in concept it's something you'd like to do,'' Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said yesterday. But much depends on the cost, the potential financing sources and the impact on traffic, he said. ''I don't think we go into this with any preconceived notions of what ought to happen.''
 Gregg Pasquarelli, a principal in SHoP, said, ''We're looking at what it means to leave it up and what it means to take it down.'' They will also look at hybrid ideas, he said, taking as one starting point a conceptual plan prepared in 2002 for the Alliance for Downtown New York and Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan.
 That plan, by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill; Greenberg Consultants; and Ove Arup & Partners, recommended dividing the drive south of the Brooklyn Bridge into a roadway and promenade. The plan said that the viaduct was wider there than it needed to be for traffic and that a promenade on the river side would yield unobstructed views of the harbor.
 The underside of the viaduct, the plan said, could be transformed from a parking lot into a sheltered colonnade, dotted with retail and food pavilions and seating areas.
 Marilyn Jordan Taylor, a partner at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, said yesterday that the planning team had looked at keeping the F.D.R. Drive as it is or moving it to street level, where it would become a wide boulevard like West Street.
 ''It seemed a little ironic,'' Ms. Taylor said, ''to take it down, put the traffic at grade and create a bigger barrier for pedestrians to have to cross.''
 Skidmore, Owings & Merrill applied for the East River planning contract under a request for proposals issued by the city's Economic Development Corporation, in consultation with the City Planning Department. So did Diller + Scofidio, which offered a wildly imaginative East River megastructure, with a floating forest and a sandy beach, as part of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's ''Vision for Lower Manhattan'' in 2002.
 ''Either the city felt that this was exactly what they don't want,'' Ricardo Scofidio said yesterday, ''or there were legitimate proposals that were stronger than ours.''
 Acknowledging that a ''lot of very good ideas'' were presented in recent years for the East River waterfront, Mr. Doctoroff said: ''We wanted to take a fresh look. We also have to be mindful of the financial resources that exist.''
 BESIDES SHoP and the Rogers firm, the winning team includes the landscape architect Ken Smith and the engineering concern Buro Happold, which worked with SHoP on the Rector Street pedestrian bridge and with Rogers on the Millennium Dome in Greenwich, England. Lord Rogers is already working with Silvercup Studios on a master plan for a mixed-use development on a waterfront site in Long Island City, Queens.
 In Manhattan, from Battery Park to East River Park, the city wants the planning consultants to ''create a range of development scenarios,'' including ''new and traditional waterfront uses, aesthetic improvements and enhancements of the ecological habitat.'' After six public meetings and a winnowing process, they are to be finished next February.
 Amanda M. Burden, the director of the City Planning Department, said yesterday that a ''very important motivation for this initiative was to strengthen the financial district'' by improving its connections to the riverfront. She is clearly open to a plan that does not reflexively regard the F.D.R. viaduct as a barrier.
 ''It has fantastic proportions,'' she said, ''in the sense that it is wide enough and tall enough that there can be great spaces under there.'' Ms. Burden wants the planning consultants ''to really think creatively about how to populate the understructure all year round.'' She was bold enough to propose dance performances, by way of example.
 And after a waterfront tour during yesterday's downpour, she noted another advantage. ''I was just walking under it in the rain,'' Ms. Burden said. ''The canopy may be an important element to keep.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The viaduct of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, over the South Street Seaport pedestrian walkway. While some see the viaduct as a barrier to pedestrians, others think a street-level drive would be harder to cross. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%) Roads and Traffic; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%); OVE ARUP & PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Rogers, Richard, Partnership; Shop/sharples Holden Pasquarelli

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Franklin D Roosevelt Drive (NYC); East River (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



276 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Wildlife Fund Sees Threat To Cod Stocks

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: GLAND, Switzerland, May 12 

 BODY:
The world's cod stocks could be wiped out by 2020 because of overfishing, illegal catches and oil exploration, the World Wildlife Fund says. 
 In a report to be released on Thursday, the environmental group said the world's largest remaining cod stock, in the Barents Sea, was under particular threat.
 The world's cod fisheries are disappearing fast, with a global catch that declined to 1 million tons in 2000, from 3.42 million tons in 1970, the report said. 
 ''If such a trend continues, the world's cod stocks will disappear in 15 years time,'' it said.
 In North America, the catch has declined by 90 percent since the early 1980's, while in European waters, the catch of North Sea cod is now just 25 percent of what it was two decades ago.
 ''Overfishing of cod continues because fisheries policies are driven by short-term economic interests,'' said Simon Cripps, head of the group's oceans program.
 The Barents Sea, north of Norway and Russia, is one of the world's richest fishing grounds, accounting for half the global cod catch. But although numbers there appear healthy, this may not last, the World Wildlife Fund said.
 High fishing quotas for 2004 are unsustainable, the group maintained. Some 110,000 tons of cod are also believed to be caught there illegally every year, further denting stocks, it said.
 ''The onus is on Russia and Norway to prevent the Barents Sea cod stock suffering a similar fate as the Canadian cod stock, which collapsed in the 1990's and has not yet recovered,'' Mr. Cripps said.
 The World Wildlife Fund said it believed that Barents Sea cod were also threatened by expanded shipping and oil exploration plans.
 On Tuesday, the Norwegian authorities said the potentially oil-rich sea would be reopened for exploration, after a pause to address environmental concerns about protecting the fragile ecosystem in Arctic waters.
 Russia, meanwhile, is planning to bolster shipping by developing a new export route via its ice-free, deep-water port of Murmansk, which would give supertankers an economical route to transport oil to the East Coast of the United States.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINFISH FISHING (91%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); TRENDS (72%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Cod (Fish); Fishing, Commercial; Endangered and Extinct Species

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (93%) World Wildlife Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NORWAY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARCTIC (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



277 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25; Op-Chart

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Where the Jobs Are

BYLINE: By W. MICHAEL COX, RICHARD ALM AND NIGEL HOLMES. 
W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm are, respectively, chief economist and economics writer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Nigel Holmes is a graphic designer.

 BODY:
Job jitters are vexing America. Not even the striking gains in employment over the last two months have put an end to hand wringing over work being ''outsourced'' to low-wage countries. Americans had become used to shedding factory jobs, but the technology and service jobs now at risk were supposed to be secure, the guarantee of our future. So we're left to wonder: what will Americans do? 
 Well, just like previous generations of Americans, they'll learn to do something different from what they've done in the past. 
 Our history is one of a constant churning of jobs, with workers always finding the next step forward in the evolution of work -- from farm hands to industrial workers to information handlers. They will do so again. As existing jobs succumb to shifts in technology and trade, the economy will adjust, creating new work that uses new skills and talents. Over time, workers move up what we call a ''hierarchy of human talents'' -- they find jobs that demand higher-order skills and offer better pay and working conditions. As depicted in the chart above, the hierarchy provides a guide to the traits and qualities that will dominate the next employment wave.
 Over the past decade the biggest employment gains came in occupations that rely on people skills and emotional intelligence -- like nurse and lawyer -- and among jobs that require imagination and creativity: designer, architect and photographer. But not all of the new jobs require advanced degrees or exceptional artistic talent; note the rise of employment for hair stylists and cosmetologists. 
 Trying to preserve existing jobs will prove futile -- trade and technology will transform the economy whether we like it not. Americans will be better off if they strive to move up the hierarchy of human talents. That's where our future lies.


GRAPHIC: Chart lists breakdown of job skills and availability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FARM LABOR (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: W Michael Cox; Richard Alm; Nigel Holmes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



278 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Parents Not Tricked, Judge Says in Custody Case

BYLINE: By ARIEL HART

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 12 

 BODY:
A judge in Memphis has terminated the parental rights of a Chinese couple who say they were tricked into giving up their daughter, now 5, to foster parents when she was a baby.
 Judge Robert Childers of Circuit Court said that the couple, Shaoqiang and Qin Luo He, had ''failed to establish a meaningful relationship'' with the girl, Anna Mae, because of ''neglect and inattentiveness'' and that the ''physical environment of the Hes' home is unhealthy and unsafe.'' Judge Childers said they sought custody only so that they would not be deported.
 ''We are just shocked,'' Mr. He said. ''We did not abandon our child.'' 
 They will appeal, he said, adding, ''We are convinced that in Memphis, Tenn., justice does not come easy, especially for minorities and immigrants.''
 The Hes have spent four years trying to get their daughter back, saying the foster parents, Jerry and Louise Baker, enjoyed wealth, connections and community support that stacked the deck against them.
 The Bakers, who have sold their house to pay legal bills, said they feared that Anna Mae would be taken from the only home that she has known and sent to live in what they view as a life of poverty with unstable parents in a dirty house.
 The proceedings became a cause celebre in the Chinese community in Memphis. Representatives of the Chinese Embassy from Washington attended court.
 The battle has it roots months before Anna Mae was born, with an unrelated case in 1998. A fellow student at the University of Memphis, where Mr. He was studying for a graduate degree in economics, accused him of sexual assault. He was cleared of the charge, but lost his place at the university, his scholarship and his stipend, the couple's sole means of support. His student visa was revoked, and the old Immigration and Naturalization Service began deportation proceedings, which have halted for the custody case.
 Overwhelmed and without medical insurance, the Hes turned to Mid-South Christian Services when Anna Mae was born in January 1999. Through Mid-South, the Hes found the Bakers, experienced foster parents who agreed to take in Anna Mae while the Hes got back on their feet.
 Three months later, the Hes signed papers to extend the arrangement to temporary custody. They say they did not know that those signatures put in play the child's permanent custody. They could get her back only with the consent of a judge. The judge said that was not accurate.
 The Bakers have said there was also a verbal agreement that they would raise her to adulthood.
 The Hes say they were not advised to hire their own lawyer. When they signed over guardianship in court, witnesses testified, the arrangement was described as temporary and no one detailed its pitfalls for the Hes.
 The Hes, who found work at Chinese restaurants, visited Anna Mae about 80 times in the next two years and began to ask for the child's return. On her 2nd birthday, the Bakers would not let the Hes take her out for a family portrait, hostility peaked, and the Bakers called the police.
 The Hes say the police ordered them to stay away from the house. They did. The Bakers said their absence over the next four months constituted legal abandonment and grounds for terminating the Hes' parental rights, a provision of Tennessee law that the Hes say they did not know.
 In addition to the abandonment question, much of the argument in the case seems to double as a culture clash. The Hes have said that where Americans see big families in close quarters as a sign of low living standards, the Chinese culture values close association with extended families. 
 Ms. Baker has testified that she was afraid that the Hes would summarily ''ship'' Anna Mae out of the country. In China it is not uncommon for children to be partly raised by relatives, both for the parents' convenience and for the family's bonding, Twila Tardif, a developmental psychologist at the University of Michigan and faculty associate with the Center for Chinese Studies, said. ''Typically, it goes until nursery school, maybe age 3, or elementary school, would be the most common,'' but can last longer, she said.
 The Bakers' lawyer, Larry Parrish, said that they were motivated just by concern for the girl and that he was glad that the judge had taken into account the couples' character. 
 The decision calls Ms. He impetuous and calculating. Citing Mr. He's answers on loan and visa applications, it says his conduct is ''marked by deceitfulness and dishonesty.''
 ''I think it would have been cruel and unusual punishment for this child to be taken out of her present circumstances,'' Mr. Parrish said. ''I couldn't conceive of a child being so innocent and so punished.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shaoqiang and Qin Luo He holding daughter, Avita, 1, yesterday in their hotel room in Memphis after a judge ruled in the four-year custody case involving another daughter, Anna Mae, 5.
 Jerry and Louise Baker, foster parents, listening to their lawyer, Larry Parrish, at a news conference after they retained custody of Anna Mae. (Photographs by The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); FAMILY LAW (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (90%); FOSTER CARE (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); WITNESSES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); APPEALS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); REFUGEES (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (63%); SEX OFFENSES (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Child Custody and Support; Decisions and Verdicts; Immigration and Refugees; Deportation; Child Custody and Support

PERSON: Ariel Hart; Shaoqiang He; Qin Luo He; Robert (Judge) Childers

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (95%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Memphis (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



279 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Two Accused Of Faking A Drowning For Insurance

BYLINE: By JASON GEORGE

 BODY:
A New Jersey man, who vanished while swimming along the Jersey Shore last summer and appeared days later in New York City, was arrested yesterday with his common-law wife, accused of fabricating the drowning to collect a $1 million insurance policy.
 Derek Nicholson and Nikole Nagle, both of Tinton Falls, N.J., were charged with conspiracy to commit insurance and wire fraud after a 10-month investigation by the Coast Guard, the F.B.I. and the United States Postal Service.
 When Mr. Nicholson disappeared on July 26, 2003, a search by two Coast Guard boats, a helicopter, scuba divers and countless volunteers was conducted on the Long Branch beach where he had been swimming with Ms. Nagle and their two children, said Lt. Bruce Johantgen of the Long Branch Police Department. 
 With nothing found except Mr. Nicholson's shoes, there seemed little hope for his safe return until someone called the New York City police on Aug. 4 to report a disoriented man in Manhattan. It turned out to be Mr. Nicholson, 30, who at the time told the police he had amnesia and did not know who he was or where he lived.
 During his 10-day absence, his family had both grieved his loss and celebrated a birth, according to a neighbor and police officers. In that short period, Ms. Nagle, 25, delivered the couple's third child. Mr. Nicholson's parents, whom the couple and their children were living with, meanwhile feared the worst for their only child, said a neighbor who did not want to give her name because of sensitivity to the family. ''I think everybody pretty much was in shock about the whole thing,'' she said.
 What neighbors did not know is that the police were already suspicious of the story, largely because Mr. Nicholson's reappearance 10 days later in a different state and wearing a different set of clothes seemed nothing short of miraculous, Lieutenant Johantgen said. They also saw a potential motive: four days before he disappeared, Mr. Nicholson had taken out a $1 million insurance policy by falsely claiming he earned $80,000 a year, according to papers filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Newark. At the time, the couple were unemployed.
 Phone records show that he also made at least two calls to Ms. Nagle while he was missing: one after the baby's birth and one after the insurance company told Ms. Nagle that without his body it would take years to pay the claim, Ronald F. Volk Jr., Coast Guard special agent, said in court papers.
 A call on Aug. 2 to the police in Sea Bright, N.J., that falsely told of a body on the shore matching Mr. Nicholson's description is believed to have come from a cellphone he registered under another name, according to the court papers.
 The couple appeared in court yesterday. Ms. Nagle was released on $100,000 bail. Mr. Nicholson is being held without bail at least two more days because Magistrate Judge Patty Shwartz called him a flight risk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); COHABITATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WATER SPORTS (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); SCUBA DIVING (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (56%) Drownings; Frauds and Swindling; Life Insurance; Amnesia

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Jason George; Nikole Nagle; Derek Nicholson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Branch (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



280 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Blames Regulations for Higher Gasoline Prices

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 12 

 BODY:
Oil industry officials told federal lawmakers on Wednesday that environmental regulations were driving up the price of gasoline, which is higher than $2 a gallon in some states.
 Their testimony, before the Senate environment and public works committee, came two days after several industry groups applauded new emission standards for diesel fuel and one day after the cost of a barrel of crude oil rose to the highest level in nearly 14 years, more than $40 a barrel. It also followed the latest earnings from some of the nation's largest oil companies, which reported record profits for the first quarter of the year. 
 The industry officials responded that other recent quarters have not been so fruitful. They argued that three decades of federal regulations on refineries in the name of cleaner air and better health were driving up gasoline prices by depressing supplies and forcing companies to comply with regulations rather than spend the money to expand refineries or build new ones. 
 Since 1981, the number of domestic refineries has fallen to 149, from 321, they said, and none has been built since 1976. With most refineries operating well above 90 percent of capacity, industry experts say higher gas prices are inevitable because supplies are limited, demand is high and companies cannot compensate when processing is interrupted by breakdowns or other problems.
 ''Unfortunately, our rising gasoline demand and the need for more domestic gasoline production capacity collide with public policies, local opposition and regulatory obstacles that deter increased domestic refining capacity,'' Bob Slaughter, president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association, said in his written statement to the committee.
 Michel Ports, an oil executive representing two retail trade groups, said, ''Simply stated, the environmental compliance burdens placed on the nation's motor fuel refining industry over the past 20 years have effectively destroyed the world's most efficient commodity manufacturing and distribution system.''
 Neither witness said how much of the current price of gas was directly attributable to the regulations. Mr. Slaughter presented a chart showing that crude oil accounts for 46 percent of the price, taxes 24 percent and marketing and distribution 11 percent. That leaves 19 percent for refinery costs, but the chart did not explain what portion could be linked to environmental regulations.
 While the industry officials won sympathy from Republicans on the committee, their views were challenged by Democrats and other witnesses, as well as by Don Zinger, chief of staff of the Office of Air and Radiation for the Environmental Protection Agency, who said in an interview: ''We don't think environmental requirements are a major factor in the run-up of gas prices. It's clear to us, the rising cost of crude oil prices is the major factor.''
 Mark Cooper, director of research for the Consumer Federation of America and Consumer Union, told the committee that the recent consolidation of oil companies, combined with rising demand, had removed much of the elasticity of oil economics, much to the oil companies' advantage.
 ''If the industry were vigorously competitive, each firm would have to worry a great deal more about being caught with short supplies or inadequate capacity, and they would hesitate to raise prices for fear of losing sales to competitors,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''Oil companies do not behave this way because they have power over price and can control supply.''
 Another witness, A. Blakeman Early, of the American Lung Association, said health benefits of cleaner air far outweighed the burdens of environmental regulations.
 While questions from Republicans on the committee, including the chairman, Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, focused on ways regulations might be streamlined to encourage more production, Democrats challenged the industry representatives to explain how oil companies could ask for fewer rules while they were enjoying such high profits.
 The difference of approach led to a confrontation between Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, and Mr. Inhofe and Senator Wayne Allard, Republican of Colorado, as the hearing was concluding after a single round of questions.
 Ms. Boxer asked for a second round, only to be rebuffed by Mr. Inhofe, who said he wanted to adjourn. She then asked if, ''without objection,'' she could enter into the record newspaper articles that reflected the robust first quarter earnings reports. Mr. Allard objected, saying that the articles were welcome but that a speech from Ms. Boxer was not.
 When she tried to respond, Mr. Inhofe lowered his gavel and ended the hearing.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); TESTIMONY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (79%); EMISSIONS (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES REGULATION (79%); DIESEL FUEL (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); DEREGULATION (79%); AIR QUALITY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PETROCHEMICALS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Profits (Industry-wide); Diesel Power; Air Pollution; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: Michael Janofsky

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



281 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Gasoline Futures Reach 20-Year Highs

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil and gasoline futures rose in New York yesterday to the highest end-of-session levels in two decades after the Energy Department reported that gasoline supplies in the United States unexpectedly declined last week. 
 Inventories fell 1.5 million barrels, to 202.5 million in the week ended May 7, the report said. 
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected an increase of 1.5 million barrels. 
 The International Energy Agency said global oil demand would keep increasing, propelled by accelerating economic growth and soaring Chinese energy consumption.
 Crude oil for June delivery rose 71 cents, or 1.8 percent, to settle at $40.77 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest since futures began trading there in 1983. It reached $40.92 a barrel during the session, the highest intraday price since Oct. 10, 1990, when Iraqi troops were in Kuwait.
 Prices are up nearly 50 percent from this time last year. 
 Unleaded gasoline for June delivery rose 4.12 cents yesterday, or 3.1 percent, to settle at $1.3735 a gallon in New York, the highest end-of-session level in the 20 years the contract has been traded. Intraday, the price touched $1.375.
 The retail price of gasoline has followed futures higher. Yesterday, prices rose 0.4 cent, to a record $1.93 a gallon, according to the AAA, formerly the American Automobile Association. In New York, AAA data showed, the average price of a gallon of regular gas is $2.025. In California, which is particularly dependent on private cars and trucks, it is $2.248. 
 Demand for gasoline increased 5 percent, to an average of 9.4 million barrels a day, the Energy Department said. In the first four months of the year, nationwide demand was 3.3 percent higher than in the corresponding period last year, it said. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since November 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (95%); GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (82%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Energy Department; International Energy Agency

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (82%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



282 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Defense at Adelphia Trial Portrays Witness as a Liar 

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
A defense lawyer began a sharp attack yesterday against the government's star witness in the fraud trial of John Rigas and two of his sons, depicting the witness as a self-described skilled liar whose testimony was self-serving and tainted.
 Paul Grand, a lawyer for Timothy Rigas, the former chief financial officer of the Adelphia Communications Corporation, also played a tape recording to that witness, James R. Brown, which showed that it was Mr. Brown who had provided a misleading piece of information to analysts during a conference call, not Mr. Rigas, as Mr. Brown had testified. 
 The attack on Mr. Brown's credibility, which came in Federal District Court in Manhattan, was anticipated because of his crucial role in the government's case against John Rigas, Adelphia's founder; Timothy Rigas; Michael Rigas; and a fourth man, Michael Mulcahey. All four are charged with bank fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy in connection with the financial collapse of Adelphia, a cable company, which filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002.
 Mr. Brown, Adelphia's former vice president for finance, pleaded guilty to fraud charges in 2002. He is testifying as part of that plea bargain. 
 In more than a week of direct testimony, Mr. Brown implicated each of the four men in financial crimes like disclosing false information to investors and banks and concealing the amount of money that the Rigases borrowed through Adelphia. But his comments could be particularly damaging to Timothy Rigas, who was his best friend at one time, because Mr. Brown said that he and Timothy Rigas had hatched many of the schemes at issue.
 When Mr. Brown first took the witness stand for the prosecution, he delivered a long soliloquy to explain his guilty plea.
 ''I lied to investors in person when I met with them,'' Mr. Brown said in part at the time. ''I lied in the company's filings. I lied in the company's press releases.''
 Yesterday, Mr. Grand, the defense lawyer, read Mr. Brown's statement back to him and then peppered him with questions about his activities at Adelphia, particularly those beginning in 1999, when prosecutors say the fraud scheme began.
 ''Is it fair to say that over that period of time you became a skillful liar?'' Mr. Grand asked.
 ''I think even prior to that period of time, but yes,'' Mr. Brown replied.
 ''A practiced liar?'' Mr. Grand continued. 
 ''Unfortunately, yes,'' Mr. Brown said.
 ''And when you lied,'' Mr. Grand said, ''am I correct that you didn't get flushed and that sweat did not pour off your brow?''
 ''I think that is fair.''
 When Mr. Grand asked whether there was any way to know when Mr. Brown was telling the truth, he replied, ''I think you have to determine that by other factors, such as documents and what other witnesses are saying.''
 Mr. Grand then moved to highlight for jurors what he said were either inconsistencies or misrepresentations in Mr. Brown's testimony.
 He was not always successful, but he appeared to score an important point when he turned to a teleconference for Adelphia analysts in which both Mr. Brown and Timothy Rigas participated. During direct examination, Mr. Brown testified that Mr. Rigas lied during the call when he told an analyst that 60 percent of Adelphia's system had been rewired for digital cable.
 On the tape, however, Mr. Brown is heard giving the analyst the 60 percent figure. At the time, less than 50 percent of Adelphia's system had been rebuilt for digital cable.
 ''That was you who was lying, was it not?'' Mr. Grand said.
 ''That's what the tape indicates,'' Mr. Brown said. ''I was relying on the transcript before.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The credibility of a witness against Timothy Rigas, above, was attacked yesterday in court. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); WITNESSES (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); ETHICS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Suits and Litigation; Accounting and Accountants; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Adelphia Communications Corp; Adelphia Communications Corp

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%)

PERSON: Barry Meier; Paul Grand; Timothy Rigas; John J Rigas; Michael J Rigas; Michael C Mulcahey; James R Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



283 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Afghans come up with an aid plan of their own design.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
AFTER the disaster of Sept. 11, there was a widespread conviction that the world had changed. One supposed change was a new sensitivity on the part of rich nations to the plight of the world's poor, and a new respect for ''nation building,'' even on the part of the Bush administration. 
 Even in these trying times, however, promises of more aid to developing nations have proved empty, or at best meager. 
 Nowhere is this more tragically evident than in Afghanistan, the first theater of combat after Sept. 11. 
 Here is the dismal record so far. Financial aid to Afghanistan, measured per capita, has been far lower than for any other nation recently during a period of rebuilding after a conflict. According to the Center on International Cooperation at New York University, aid to Afghanistan for 2002 and well into 2003 was only $67 annually for each man, woman and child.
 During its recovery from war, Kosovo received more than 10 times that -- $814 a year per capita over several years. And Palestine received $219 a year per person in the second half of the 1990's, three times the amount for Afghanistan. 
 Even Haiti received more aid per capita, some $74, in the three years of its post-conflict reconstruction. Rwanda received $114 a person in annual aid from 1994 to 1996. And those two countries are considered classic examples of neglect, said Barnett Rubin, who, with several colleagues, put together the center's study on Afghanistan.
 This latest case of neglect came partly because the United States turned its attention to Iraq. Aid has also been impeded by the lack of physical security in Afghanistan. 
 But the neglect also sadly reflects the refusal of rich nations to undertake costly, multifaceted solutions to long-term, complex problems.
 One consequence of the slow start in Afghanistan is that opium production and drug trafficking have easily become the most important sources of income. The United Nations estimates that a poppy farmer earns more than $2,500 a year, compared with $670 for other farmers. As a result, about a quarter of all Afghan farmland is devoted to poppy cultivation. 
 In the meantime, security is increasingly difficult to maintain. As Afghanistan prepares for elections later this year, the American government reports that attacks by the Taliban have risen to their highest levels since its collapse more than two years ago. And many attacks are directed against aid workers. 
 But there is some hope for a change. Encouraged by an ad hoc group of rich donor nations, the American-supported government in Afghanistan produced a remarkable document this year that proposed a broad-based plan for development. It combined the efforts of some 100 experts, and has been widely hailed by development specialists, including those at the World Bank. 
 The plan is broad and carefully thought out. In particular, it abides by a crucial new tenet of development economics. Afghanistan will ''own'' the new programs. That is, it devised the proposed programs and will control them rather than have them imposed on it and run by outsiders. 
 As important, it avoids the error of simply opening the nation to free markets. It understands the need to develop public institutions, adequate transportation and a strong education system, as well as the enhancement of legal institutions. 
 A New York University economist, Ishaq Nadiri, a native Afghan who contributed to the plan, believes that it is a sensible set of guidelines for the public sector that is geared toward making the nation better able to attract and exploit private investment in the long run. 
 Over the last 25 years or so of war with the Soviets, internecine strife among warlords, the rise of the Taliban and the recent military incursions to root out Al Qaeda, the nation was devastated. For example, the new report notes that ''25 years ago, it took 4 hours to travel from Kabul to Kandahar, now it takes 14.'' 
 A main focus of the plan is the development of transportation infrastructure in the landlocked nation, including primary and secondary roads and regional airports. The plan also calls for substantial building of primary schools, among other needed public institutions. 
 It is easy to forget, said Mr. Nadiri, also an associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, that Afghanistan has significant resources and was once a nation with good prospects. ''When I was a young man, Kabul was a lovely city,'' Mr. Nadiri, 67, said.
 Donor nations at first balked at the price tag of the plan. Afghanistan is asking for $28.5 billion over seven years. 
 But an agreement was reached about a month ago in Berlin by several dozen donor nations, including the United States, to meet a substantial part of the request, at least over the next few years.
 The nations pledged $4.5 billion in the first year and a substantial part of the Afghan requests for the second and third years. Moreover, the United States, Mr. Rubin said, informally acknowledged that it must take the lead in donations, a responsibility it had been resisting. 
 There is not all good news, however. At the Berlin meeting, the donor nations refused to pledge any new troops or sufficient money for military security outside Kabul. The cost of this could come to well over $2 billion a year. And Kabul security itself, led by the coalition forces, is still largely dedicated to rooting out Al Qaeda, not maintaining the stability needed for economic development. 
 Can true development occur without such security? Both Mr. Rubin and Mr. Nadiri are dubious. 
 As we are learning in Iraq, military security and economic development in war-ravaged nations are inextricably linked. The responsibility, however expensive, cannot be neglected or wished away. 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Skimpy Aid to Afghanistan''Afghanistan has received less financial support for rebuilding after conflict than other countries have received in recent years.International aid provided annually per person during post-conflict periodsKOSOVO'99-'01
 Rebuilding $814periodEAST TIMOR'99-'01$256BOSNIA'95-'97$249PALESTINE'94-'01$219RWANDA'94-'96$114HAITI'95-'98$74AFGHANISTAN'02-'03$67(Source by Center on International Cooperation, N.Y.U.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (88%); OPIUM (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); TRENDS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TALIBAN (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Jeff Madrick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); HAITI (92%); RWANDA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



284 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Hunters Lift Blue Chips in a Late-Day Rally

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose yesterday in a late-day rally as investors bought stocks that had sunk to lows for the year. The rally set aside persistent worries about oil prices, rising interest rates and violence in Iraq. 
 Both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had tumbled more than 1.5 percent by midday, while the Nasdaq was down almost 2.6 percent. But a late-day buying spurt pushed the Dow and the S.&P. 500 to slight gains by the close, while the rally helped the Nasdaq finish just a bit in negative territory. 
 ''Everyone's so pessimistic, so down, and the market's so oversold; that's why we're getting a rally,'' said Todd Leone, head of listed trading at SG Cowen. ''All the bad news seems to be priced in, and the market's finally getting a bounce.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 25.69 points, or 0.26 percent, at 10,045.16, after falling to 9,852.19 earlier, for a swing of more than 190 points during the day. 
 The S.&P. 500 gained 1.83 points, or 0.17 percent, to 1,097.28. The Nasdaq ended down 5.76 points, or 0.3 percent, at 1,925.59.
 Caterpillar, the heavy equipment maker, led the Dow higher, rising $1.76, or 2.4 percent, to $74.86.
 On Monday, stocks fell for the third consecutive day to their lowest levels this year, amid fears that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates as soon as next month.
 Rising oil prices and turmoil in Iraq continued to rattle investors yesterday. Crude oil settled within reach of an all-time high yesterday, as fears of gasoline shortages sparked buying following data that showed a lowering in motor fuel inventories. Shares of Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, rose 40 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $43.
 Tobacco stocks fell after the Florida Supreme Court said it had agreed to review the dismissal of a $145 billion judgment against the tobacco industry, and would hear arguments in the case in October.
 The ruling was a defeat for the tobacco company defendants. Shares of Altria, the parent of the No.1 cigarette maker, Philip Morris, sank $3.60, to $49.80, while R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings shed $3.47, or 5.6 percent, to $58.08.
 Shares of Cisco Systems fell 29 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $21.96, a day after the company said its quarterly earnings increased 23 percent because of rising demand from corporate customers, but investors sold its stock in part because of concerns about a jump in its inventories from the previous quarter.
 Qualcomm fell even after it raised its 2004 earnings forecasts, citing higher licensing royalties and strong demand for its phone chips. Shares of Qualcomm, whose technology is used in cellphones sold throughout the Americas and Asia, fell 82 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $63.90.

03,20,40,20>	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ROYALTIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (64%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); RJ REYNOLDS TOBACCO HOLDINGS INC (51%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (51%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (51%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (64%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); RAI (NYSE) (51%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (51%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (64%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (51%); SIC2121 CIGARS (51%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (67%) IRAQ (88%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



285 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Tax Relief Charade

 BODY:
Last week, House Republicans were the driving force behind the passage of a stopgap measure intended to provide relief for taxpayers who have been hit of late with the alternative minimum tax. The relief is sorely needed. But the House's measure is disingenuous -- a temporary fix that will mollify justifiably aggrieved taxpayers in the short run while obscuring the real cause of the alternative tax problem and, by extension, dangerous flaws in the Bush administration's tax policy. 
 The alternative minimum tax is built into the federal tax code to ensure that superwealthy taxpayers don't use excessive tax breaks to avoid paying their fair share. In the 1990's, it never applied to more than about one million people a year. But in recent years, the tax has begun afflicting middle-class and upper-middle-class taxpayers who are far from the multimillionaires it was intended to affect. This year, about three million taxpayers will owe this tax. Without corrective action, nearly 30 million taxpayers will be affected in 2010, most of them making $50,000 to $200,000.
 Part of the problem is that the alternative minimum tax was not designed to reflect the effects of inflation, so the House's fix would provide some inflation protection by increasing the thresholds for the tax through 2005. But a more serious cause is the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. When the tax cuts were enacted, no corresponding changes were made to the alternative tax. So as the tax cuts reduce the liability on a filer's Form 1040, the alternative tax liability looms relatively larger. In effect, most taxpayers snared by this tax will be giving back all or part of the tax savings they were supposed to reap from the Bush tax cuts.
 This consequence was not unforeseen -- the alternative tax has been studied from every conceivable angle for over a decade. It is allowed to endure in its current form for only one reason: to mask the tax cuts' disastrous effect on the deficit. As long as the alternative tax is on the books, official budget estimates include the revenue it is projected to raise from middle-class taxpayers -- even though the administration and Congress are publicly committed to ensuring that those same taxpayers won't have to pay. One way or the other, then, the administration's tax plan is sheer duplicity. Either middle-class Americans will find their supposed tax cuts gobbled up by the alternative tax, or the deficit will be far larger than the administration projects.
 The hidden budget hole is enormous. Right now, the administration argues that Congress must permanently extend the Bush tax cuts. According to estimates by the Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, the cost of doing so, without reforming the alternative tax, is about $1.2 trillion. If the alternative tax is reformed so it won't apply to middle-class taxpayers, the cost will explode to nearly $2 trillion.
 The Senate is expected to pass the House's temporary fix, but middle-class taxpayers should not be fooled. They will either get little if any benefit from the Bush tax cuts, or they will get a deficit that has ballooned beyond anyone's worst nightmare. 



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (65%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%) Taxation; Editorials

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



286 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1; TURF

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: The Open House: Mobs and The City

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
IN January, Eileen Foy, a real estate broker with Douglas Elliman in Manhattan, took two prospective buyers to see a one-bedroom apartment in an Upper East Side building. As she escorted them to the elevator, the superintendent chastised her for staging an open house, which had been recently forbidden by the building's co-op board.
 ''I said, 'I'm not, I'm just showing two people the apartment,' '' Ms. Foy recalled. 
 It was a sign of just how sensitive Manhattan residents have grown over the frenzy that increasingly surrounds open houses, which threaten to hold whole buildings hostage every Sunday. At a time when low interest rates and scant inventories of available apartments are helping sellers draw 100-plus crowds to open houses, their neighbors are becoming fed up with what they see as marauding hordes invading their privacy. They are tired of strangers clogging elevators, wandering halls, popping down to the basement to inspect laundry rooms and knocking on doors to ask pesky questions about pet policies and party rules. 
 Last month, when several brokers banded together to hold concurrent open houses in a co-op on East 54th Street, so many people jammed the lobby that the building's on-site manager threatened to kick them out on the spot, said Corinne Pulitzer, an agent with Heron Properties who was the host of an open house in a one-bedroom apartment that day.
 Fearing such spectacles, some co-op boards and condominium associations are now clamping down, limiting how many people may attend an open house at a time, demanding that brokers escort every buyer or, in some cases, banning open houses altogether.
 This month, the board of the Excelsior, a luxury co-op of 347 apartments on East 57th Street, told residents they would no longer be permitted to hold open houses when they put their apartments up for sale.
 ''There were so many people in the lobby on a Sunday afternoon that you could hardly walk through,'' said Michael McCabe, who manages the Excelsior for Douglas Elliman Property Management. 
 Open houses have long been prohibited at many of the city's plum buildings on Park and Fifth Avenues. But these days, the potential mob scenes can be unwelcome on the West Side, too. Deanna Kory, a Corcoran broker who has sold apartments in more than 50 buildings on the Upper West Side, said that about 15 have moved to restrict open houses in some way over the past year. ''Owners in the buildings get upset because they can't function normally and their home is being invaded,'' she said.
 Earlier this year, the co-op board at 111 Fourth Avenue, near Union Square, mandated that anyone holding an open house must station one broker in the apartment, one in the lobby to register guests, and designate still another to convey prospective buyers up and down the elevator.
 With several open houses a month, said Richard Nessel, the board treasurer, ''somehow over the last few months it's like there's a party going on in our lobby.''
 In March, the board of a 191-unit post-war building at 139 East 33rd Street in Murray Hill put its foot down. Now the number of people allowed in a for-sale apartment at any one time is limited to just two.
 ''It's a security thing,'' said Isabel Fine, the departing board president and the building's director of sales and sublets. ''You can't have people roaming around.''
 Until recently, said Ms. Fine, who has lived in the building for 45 years, residents barely noticed prospective buyers trickling in and out. ''It only started to become a problem when we got so busy,'' she said. 
 Thomas Wong, a Corcoran broker, said it was not just the number of people at open houses that frazzled residents, but their aggressive and inquisitive behavior. ''People are trying to get everything in all at once,'' he said, ''because they have one shot at getting the apartment and they have to decide at that open house whether or not to put in a bid.'' Would-be buyers often fear they will not have a chance for a follow-up visit, and they use open houses as a chance to visit basement storage rooms or roof decks, sometimes harassing residents along the way. 
 Some apartment hunters have become even more assertive. At one Upper East Side open house, said Sam Elias, a broker with Halstead Property, some buyers knocked on neighbors' doors, asking residents if they were interested in selling. After that, the building's co-op board ordered brokers to escort all visitors to and from open houses. 
 Not surprisingly, brokers and sellers who rely on open houses to help spur bidding wars bemoan out-and-out bans. ''It hurts,'' said Elayne Reimer, a broker with Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy who has sold many Excelsior apartments. ''It will slow up or eliminate some of the bidding wars that used to go on after 100 people saw an apartment and people said, 'Oh, my God, I have to buy this right away.' ''
 Penny Bushell, who has lived with her husband and two children in a three-bedroom apartment on East 70th Street for six years, used to think of her building's ban on Sunday open houses and showings as a blessing. ''When you come home on a Sunday afternoon with your children, you don't want to be with hundreds of people going to your neighbor's open house,'' she said. But now that she and her husband are trying to sell, she said, the policy is ''challenging because you want the volume'' that a Sunday open house generates.
 Elaine Clayman, a broker with Brown Harris Stevens who is the Bushells' agent, said that without open houses, sellers '' are not going to get the energy of one buyer playing off the other, or buyers seeing offers being made in front of them.''
 A restriction on open houses can be a drawback for buyers, too. Particularly for those who work during the week, open houses are the most convenient way to get a quick survey of available apartments.
 Last Sunday, nearly 50 people showed up for an open house at 270 West 17th Street, a Chelsea condominium featuring two-bedroom apartments priced under $1 million -- a rarity in this market. By 2:30 p.m., starting time for the open house, more than 20 people had gathered in the lobby.
 Once upstairs, Darren Sukenik, a broker with Douglas Elliman, answered questions about the 1,100-square-foot, two-bedroom apartment with pale yellow living room walls and large windows. Stoking the mood, he told the prospective buyers that three other apartments in the building had recently sold for more than their asking prices, thanks to multiple bids.
 Jamie Palan, a consultant, and her fiance Brian Weinstein, an asset manager, inspected the bright-red master bedroom. Given their busy schedules, they said, they do most of their apartment-hunting at weekend open houses. But with the crowds, Mr. Weinstein said, ''it's crazy; you get all kinds of people making offers on the spot.''
 Indeed, Mr. Sukenik said, that's the point. Residents of the building, where Mr. Sukenik himself owns an apartment, ''know that an open house is the proper vehicle to ensure the highest price available.''
 By Monday morning, Mr. Sukenik said he had received three offers, all over the asking price of $989,000. On Tuesday, a buyer signed a contract for more than $1 million, he said.
 Residents who encourage bans on open houses, he said, ''are shooting themselves in the foot.'' 
 ''It's a double-edged sword,'' he explained, ''because if they don't want to see people in their lobby now, they're darn well going to want to see them when they go to sell their apartment.''
 Some residents actually like open houses, because they offer the opportunity to gauge property values and snoop their neighbors' apartments for decorating ideas. On Sunday, Mr. Sukenik's open house attracted Victor Sciolto, a bank trader who has lived in the building for 10 years, and his companion, Randy Koshinskie, who will move in in June. ''I really love the painting above the bed,'' said Mr. Sciolto, who said he was not bothered by people coming into the building to look at apartments.
 Still, even some brokers have recently found open houses to be so overwhelming that they are now recommending that some sellers opt for by-appointment-only showings. In February, more than 150 people showed up to view a three-bedroom apartment at an open house on the Upper East Side. At one point, recalled Elizabeth Fishman, a broker with Stribling and host of the event, the crowd included a Burmese mountain dog, a couple pushing a double stroller, and a nursing mother who took refuge in one of the bathrooms. Down in the lobby, another broker tried to stop a resident from getting into the elevator. 
 Ms. Fishman said she would still hold open houses in some cases. But if she thought the turnout would be too large, she said, she would advise a seller to skip it.
 ''I don't want to make enemies in a building,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: DO DROP IN -- Apartment hunters, left, waited in the lobby before an open house at a building on West 17th Street last Sunday. In the apartment, above. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



287 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: An 'A,' for Outstanding

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''An A for Effort to Restore Meaning to the Grade'' (Public Lives, May 6): I have been a professor of architecture at Pratt Institute for more than 30 years. While architecture students' portfolios are more important than their grades, my colleagues on the Academic Senate often complain about grade inflation. 
 Every year, I make a simple proposal: An A should be defined as ''truly outstanding,'' and truly outstanding should mean that we pin up the work and invite our colleagues to come and see it. If our colleagues say ''You asked me to come all the way out to Brooklyn to see this?,'' that means the work should not have gotten an A. (The process would most obviously apply to graphic projects, but written papers could also be pinned up.) 
 Each year my colleagues on the Senate pause, look at me, and then go back to complaining about grade inflation. 

JOHN LOBELL
New York, May 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%) Colleges and Universities; Grading of Students

ORGANIZATION: Pratt Institute

PERSON: John (Prof) Lobell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



288 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: REGIONAL PLANNING

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Present Revised Program for Democracy in Mideast; Skepticism Is Widespread

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 12 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, dogged by the growing abuse scandal in Iraq, is pressing ahead this week with a new appeal for democracy and political reform in the Middle East in the face of extreme skepticism in the region and in Europe.
 What the administration calls its Greater Middle East Initiative, a proposal that stirred an angry outcry from Arab officials when a version leaked out last winter, is an eight-page draft that began circulating among foreign ministers this week.
 The administration has said President Bush plans to get some form of the document adopted at the summit meeting of leading industrial nations and Russia, the so-called Group of 8, in June at Sea Island, Ga.
 But European officials familiar with the contents said they expected that in light of widespread outrage over American soldiers' abuse of Iraq prisoners, even this new, toned-down document would have to be revised extensively to make it seem less high-handed and arrogant. Even some American officials wonder how effective such a call can be right now, especially because the administration is counting on support from Arab League nations. 
 ''If you look at the events of the last week, you realize it's an embarrassing moment to be discussing this subject,'' a European diplomat said.
 The document that was leaked last year encompassed exhortations and pronouncements that offended many Arab leaders, both because they perceived it as imperialist in tone, and because it omitted discussion of the Arab-Israeli confrontation.
 The new document, ''G-8 Plan of Support for Reform,'' which was made available to The New York Times, calls for increased engagement by the West to promote democracy, women's rights, education, political reforms, free markets and investments, an independent judiciary and media, and greater efforts to crack down on corruption.
 One detail calls for a ''ministerial framework for our on-going engagement on political, economic and social reform'' in the Middle East. This forum would convene foreign, finance and trade ministers from the G-8 countries and the Middle East on a regular basis.
 ''We are working on ways we could work together with the Middle East, and whether the mechanism is a conference or a secretariat or a bureacracy will be decided by the time we issue a statement at Sea Island,'' an administration official said.
 But European diplomats say they are extremely skeptical about setting up a bureacratic structure or secretariat, especially given the current fluid situation in Iraq.
 An administration official said the document was simply a list of ideas that would be refined as the Sea Island summit meeting approaches, and especially after the Arab League summit talks, on May 22. 
 European and American officials emphasize that their plan is to get the Arab League to adopt a similar document; then they would issue a statement at Sea Island to support the Arab leaders, perhaps combining the two statements.
 Administration officials said a document adopted this week but not made public by Arab League foreign ministers meeting in Cairo may have made it easier to press ahead with the American plan. 
 According to people familiar with the Cairo document, it includes calls for women's rights, improved governance, political freedoms, educational reforms, judicial reforms and economic liberalization.
 Unlike the American document, the Arab League proposal also calls for resolution of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians as essential to all these reforms in the Middle East. The Bush administration says reform can proceed even in the absence of such a resolution.
 But European, American and Arab officials say they are not certain the Cairo document will make its way into an official plan by Arab leaders at their summit meeting.
 These officials note that a summit meeting planned last month in Tunis, where Jordan, Egypt and other American allies in the Middle East had been pressing for adoption of a democracy program, was canceled at the last minute in a display of acrimony and distrust of American intentions.
 Arab officials have let the Bush administration know that it would not help for the United States to lead an effort at Sea Island on behalf of reform. Those views were conveyed well before the recent developments in Iraq provoked a torrent of criticism in the Arab world.
 Asked about the skepticism, a senior Bush administration official said that it was widespread but not universally shared, and that many Europeans were skeptical about the American occupation from the beginning of the war last year.
 ''There's broad agreement about the value of doing something to promote reform in the Middle East,'' the official said. ''But the skepticism is focused on how we want to put it into practice.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WOMEN (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Palestinians; Women; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (82%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%) Arab League 

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) Middle East; Iraq; Israel; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



289 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widens to $46 Billion on Oil Imports

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 12 

 BODY:
The United States' trade deficit jumped sharply to a record $46 billion in March, propelled by a surge in oil imports and oil prices as well as strong demand for imported consumer goods, the Commerce Department reported on Wednesday.
 The unexpectedly big increase in the trade gap showed that both exports and imports climbed as the American economy grew faster than that of Europe or Japan.
 But the encouraging news about exports, which affirmed signs of a rebound in manufacturing, was offset by the effect of oil imports and evidence that America's huge trade imbalance was not likely to decline soon. And the oil effect will most likely grow worse because prices have increased about $5 a barrel since the end of March, settling above $40 this week. 
 The report renewed concerns about the United States' record level of foreign indebtedness, which exceeded $500 billion last year. The dollar, which had been climbing, slipped against the euro, and several economists predicted more declines.
 Senator John F. Kerry of Massachusetts, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, used the new numbers to accuse President Bush of being lax on trade.
 ''How much higher does the trade deficit need to be before George Bush starts enforcing our trade rules and fighting for American jobs?'' Mr. Kerry said in a statement. ''This record trade deficit together with the record budget deficit has caused America to be increasingly dependent on foreign borrowing.''
 Scott McClellan, a spokesman for President Bush, said the trade deficit underscored the need to pass energy legislation to increase production of oil and gas and alternative fuels.
 ''We remain in contact with producers around the world, urging them not to act in a way that would hurt our economy or harm our consumers,'' Mr. McClellan said. ''It's also important that we move forward on passing a comprehensive energy plan so we don't run into this situation year after year.'' 
 Many economists said the widening trade deficit merely reflected the United States' relatively rapid growth. Most economists predict that growth will average more than 4 percent this year, compared with about 3 percent for Japan and barely 1.5 percent for Europe.
 ''Why should we be surprised at these trade imbalances?'' asked Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. ''They are a perfect reflection of what is going on.''
 Many forecasters had been predicting that the March deficit would rise to $43 billion from $42.1 billion in February. Instead, it climbed to $46 billion as imports surged from China and Europe as well as from the big oil-exporting nations.
 Though oil imports and higher prices were not the only reasons for the higher trade deficit, they played a significant role. Increased payments for oil imports added $2.2 billion to deficit in March, about half of the total increase. And analysts said oil imports could add even more to the trade deficit. 
 ''As the economy continues to grow and investment picks up, this will only intensify U.S. demand for foreign oil,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at the MG Financial Group.
 Rising oil prices have become a chief concern of the Bush administration, and they are receiving increased scrutiny at the Federal Reserve. Senior Fed officials have estimated that a price increase of $10 a barrel could reduce American economic growth by about one-half of a percentage point.
 But Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has said that rising oil prices are less likely than in the 1970's to lead to higher inflation because energy now accounts for a smaller part of the overall economy and because inflation expectations are much lower.
 Thus far, investors have shown little concern about the United States' rising deficit or its rising level of foreign indebtedness. But Mr. Laidi warned that the willingness of foreign investors to buy Treasury bonds and other American securities could ebb abruptly.
 To be sure, manufacturing executives found much to like in the new trade report. Exports climbed 2.6 percent in March compared with those in February, and they were 14.6 percent higher than those in the month a year earlier.
 The growth in exports came from many sectors of the economy, from industrial supplies and capital machinery to consumer goods. 
 The United States' trade deficit with China, which was already larger than the trade deficit with any other country, rose to $10.4 billion in March from $8.3 billion in February. 
 The sharp decline of the dollar against the euro and other major currencies has helped American exports by making them cheaper in foreign currencies. 
 But Mr. Levy of Bank of America said the United States' persistently faster growth rate made it likely that its trade deficit would remain large for the foreseeable future.
 ''The global trade imbalances are going to remain large,'' Mr. Levy said. ''They are not going to go away.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); EURO (53%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading ; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Energy and Power; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Scott Mcclellan

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



290 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Signs Bill Creating Stem Cell Research Center

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J., May 12 

 BODY:
Saying that the frontiers of medical science should not be hemmed in by politics, Gov. James E. McGreevey signed legislation Wednesday to establish the nation's first state-supported stem cell research facility.
 Stem cells -- found in human embryos, placentas and umbilical cords -- can be induced to grow into an array of different types of body tissues, and researchers say they could be useful in treating a variety of ailments. Because harvesting the cells often involves destroying a human embryo, many conservatives and anti-abortion campaigners say it is unethical. 
 In August 2001, President Bush forbade federal financing for research that would produce any embryonic stem cell lines other than the 64 already in existence. Today, scientists complain that there are only 15 cell lines available and that the shortage could be forestalling medical breakthroughs.
 Mr. McGreevey said Wednesday that it was up to state elected officials to end the delays and help promote the kind of research that might lead to new treatments for heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, cancer and spinal cord injuries.
 ''This isn't an abstract academic debate,'' said Mr. McGreevey, who was joined by several spinal injury victims and their families as he signed the legislation at Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Brunswick. ''People are suffering today, and what we offer them is hope.''
 Mr. McGreevey's action made New Jersey the only state other than California to provide funds for the research, and came as the Bush administration faces increasing pressure to relax its restrictions. John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, was an early supporter of stem cell research and has mentioned the issue often while campaigning. A letter asking the White House to allow more research was signed recently by more than 200 members of Congress, including some notable Republicans, conservatives and anti-abortion advocates.
 Last week, Nancy Reagan made her first public statements in support of expanding stem cell research, saying that doing so might help treat the Alzheimer's that afflicts former President Ronald Reagan. She said it had taken him ''to a distant place where I can no longer reach him.''
 Opposition to the research has not declined. Leaders of several national anti-abortion groups have urged the administration to provide additional funds for research that does not involve embryos and instead cultivates stem cells from the blood and bone marrow of adults.
 As Mr. McGreevey arrived at the hospital Wednesday for a stem cell forum, 30 demonstrators picketed outside. Marie Tasy, public affairs director of New Jersey Right to Life, called the law the ''clone and kill bill'' because she said it would allow scientists to grow embryos for months, then destroy them and sell their organs to researchers.
 ''The pharmaceutical industry gave all this money to the administration and the Legislature because they don't want any restrictions,'' Ms. Tasy said, ''but the language is there, and all it takes is one rogue scientist to abuse it.''
 The issue has also contributed to the strained relations between Mr. McGreevey, a Roman Catholic, and New Jersey church leaders, who have denounced him for supporting stem cell research, abortion rights and domestic partnership for gay couples. 
 Mr. McGreevey said the regulations specifically forbid cloning, and he insisted that the potential of the research outweighed the moral or ethical concerns.
 The Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey is to be built near Robert Wood Johnson Hospital and is to be run jointly by Rutgers University and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. The governor has included $6.5 million for the institute in his budget proposal, which must be approved by the Legislature next month. Harold L. Paz, dean of the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, said the institute was also beginning a drive for private donations but declined to say how much it hoped to raise.
 About 200 researchers and health advocates attended the stem cell forum, and many said they hoped the institute would help New Jersey retain its status as a center for pharmaceutical and bio-tech research. State officials said 120 bio-tech research businesses in New Jersey employed 8,000 people and created $1 billion in revenue for the state economy.
 Some families of people with incurable medical conditions were encouraged by the change. Tricia Riccio, whose teenage son was rendered quadriplegic by a wrestling accident, said she hoped research would help her son perform everyday tasks some day, like brushing his teeth.
 ''The disappointment of wanting to help your child and knowing there is no cure is something I hope no parent has to face,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The institute established by the bill signed by Gov. James E. McGreevey would be the first one in the country financed by a state. (Photo by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CLONING (89%); ABORTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); CANCER (77%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (77%); ETHICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); DENTISTRY (67%); DIABETES (67%) Medicine and Health; Cloning ; Genetics and Heredity; Stem Cells; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Research; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Stem Cell Institute of New Jersey; Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey; University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David Kocieniewski; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



291 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Angola Set To Disclose Payments From Big Oil

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, May 12 

 BODY:
In a reversal of a longstanding policy, the Angolan government will disclose some payments it receives from oil companies that do business there, making the southwest African nation the latest to respond to pressure to make such compensation public.
 An Angolan government official is expected to disclose on Thursday that the country is receiving $300 million from ChevronTexaco at a deal-signing ceremony in Washington with the company's chief executive, David J. O'Reilly, three executives with knowledge of the agreement said.
 The deal extends Chevron's outstanding rights to the shallow-water oil and gas field known as Block Zero through 2030. 
 Angola and other developing nations have been under scrutiny from human rights groups, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the British government to reveal what they receive from oil companies for access to national crude reserves. 
 Angola has been trying to strengthen ties with the United States and foreign investors, and the payment announcement would come in the middle of Angolan president Jose Eduardo dos Santos's three-day trip to the United States.
 He met with President Bush on Wednesday morning. The United States is the market for more than half of Angola's estimated production of 950,000 barrels a day. 
 Angola's finance minister, Jose Pedro de Morais, disclosed the amount of the ChevronTexaco payment to Angolan media last week, and a spokesman for the oil company confirmed that an announcement was expected Thursday, but did not provide details. Mr. de Morais was unavailable for comment on Wednesday, a spokesman in Angola's Washington embassy said.
 What energy and mining companies pay governments for drilling rights has become a hot-button issue as resources in the developed world dry up.
 ''We are running out of places to find oil,'' said Karina Litvack, head of governance and socially responsible investment at ISIS Asset Management in London. Oil companies are starting to look for resources, she said, ''where the money the companies pay the government sometimes fuels corruption, instability or human rights abuses.'' 
 By disclosing the amount it is being paid, Angola's government is setting ''a new standard for transparency,'' Ms. Litvack said. 
 ''We are cautiously optimistic,'' said Ben Mellor, an official with Britain's Department for International Development.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain started the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, known as E.I.T.I., in 2001, and many international oil companies and shareholders groups have said they support the initiative's call for increased disclosure. 
 Angola's decision to make public the money it is receiving from ChevronTexaco may represent a ''real turning point'' for the country, Mr. Mellor said. Nigeria and Azerbaijan had recently stepped up disclosure of payments they have received from foreign oil companies after receiving outside pressure. 
 Angola, which emerged from nearly 30 years of civil war in 2002, is struggling with food shortages, a large debt, and high poverty and H.I.V. rates among its 10.8 million citizens.
 Human Rights Watch estimated that $4.2 billion in oil revenues were unaccounted for in Angola from 1997 to 2002. The government has said such numbers are misleading, but it is under intense pressure from outside agencies and foreign investors to provide figures. 
 ''The goal is to make the government accountable for how it manages its resources,'' said Karin Lissakers, an adviser to George Soros, the financier and philanthropist. Mr. Soros supports Publish What You Pay, a campaign to encourage oil companies to disclose the payments they make to developing nations.
 Angola's expected announcement on Thursday is an ''important step,'' Ms. Lissakers said, but ''one hopes they will take the next step and adopt the E.I.T.I. standards for the whole sector.'' 
 ChevronTexaco is the biggest foreign oil producer in Angola, and pumps about 400,000 barrels a day from the Block Zero field.
 The company operates Block Zero, and shares ownership with France's Total, Italy's ENI and Angola's government-owned oil company.
 ChevronTexaco is paying $210 million to sign the 20-year agreement, as well as $80 million to develop social programs in the region and another $10 million in production-related payments. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jose Eduardo dos Santos of Angola met with President Bush yesterday as part of a three-day visit to the United States. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ETHICAL INVESTING (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); MINES & MINING (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Finances; Third World and Developing Countries; Freedom and Human Rights; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (84%); F&C ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Chevrontexaco Corp; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (84%); FCAM (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); DAVID J O'REILLY (70%); TONY BLAIR (58%) Heather Timmons; David J O'Reilly

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%) Angola; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2004



292 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Airline Bailout Fails to Do the Job, Some Experts Say

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In the dark days after Sept. 11, 2001, Congress raced to approve a $15 billion bailout program meant to ensure the survival of the devastated airline industry with grants and loan guarantees. 
 But the bailout program has not accomplished anything like that, according to a variety of experts, including industry executives, labor leaders, and members of Congress. Instead of tiding otherwise sound airlines over until depressed air traffic could pick up again, the program has been used in part as a life-support system for weak airlines that were struggling before Sept. 11 and are still struggling. 
 Though demand for air travel has recovered nearly to pre-attack levels, the industry as a whole faces yet another financial crisis, because of low-cost competition and rising fuel costs. 
 The bailout program may actually have made matters worse, some experts say, by forestalling a badly needed shakeout in the industry, keeping the weakest carriers alive at the expense of the others and perpetuating a glut of flights and seats. 
 ''I'll be honest with you, if you look at it from a strictly conceptual point of view, it does have a distortional impact on the industry,'' Herbert D. Kelleher, the chairman of Southwest Airlines, said in an interview this week. In the last two weeks, two major airlines -- Delta, which did not seek federal loan guarantees under the program, and US Airways, which received a $1 billion package -- have warned that they may have to file for bankruptcy protection unless their employees agree to wage cuts and other concessions.
 For US Airways, a bankruptcy filing would be its second since Sept. 11, and one of its major creditors this time would be the federal government, which holds a 10 percent stake in the company as collateral.
 The chief executive of United Airlines, Glenn F. Tilton, is, meanwhile, conducting a dogged campaign to win public support for his company's application for $1.6 billion in loan guarantees from the government. United has been in bankruptcy protection since December 2002, after its first application, for a $1.8 billion package, was rejected by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board.
 The board, created by Congress to oversee the bailout, includes representatives from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury and Transportation Departments. It has no deadline for deciding on United's request, but the airline expects a ruling soon. 
 Airline industry executives uniformly supported the bailout program -- which its trade group maintains was crucial for the industry's survival -- when it was put together in the week after Sept. 11 though the companies disagreed on its content. The $5 billion in cash grants were welcome after airports were shut for nearly a week, Mr. Kelleher of Southwest said. Despite misgivings, he was loath to criticize the loan guarantees then. 
 ''I told people, 'This is a time for patriotism,''' he said. ''That doesn't necessarily mean that I thought it was a good idea.'' 
 Neither did most airlines. Though they were far from healthy financially, American, Delta, Continental, Northwest and Southwest decided not to apply for loan guarantees. 
 In interviews over the last few weeks, some executives at those airlines said they opted out mainly because of the requirement that the airlines put up stock as collateral. Others said the original deadline for applications -- June 28, 2002 -- left them too little time to develop a valid business plan. 
 The deadline turned out to be a flexible one. Two carriers that won approval for loan packages, America West Airlines and US Airways, were later allowed to renegotiate them after running into trouble meeting the original terms. US Airways, in fact, was technically in default on its package early this year. And after United's first request was rejected, the loan board invited it to reapply, which it did last December. 
 ''There's a huge fairness issue,'' said Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary, a critic of the loan guarantee program. ''The airlines that didn't take advantage of it are left holding the bag.''
 Rival airlines complain in particular about the case of United Airlines. One competitor circulated an analysis this week disputing United's claim in its second application that it had achieved $2.5 billion a year in labor-cost savings; the analysis says that United has fallen $800 million short, in part because it has not saved as much on pension contributions as it expected, despite legislation meant specifically to help it.
 United said that it stood by its reckoning of the savings and that it would post an operating profit in 2005 (a goal pushed back from this year) and a net profit in 2006. 
 There is also the question of political influence. The Congressional district represented by J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, is in Illinois, United's home state, and Mr. Hastert has spent months lobbying tirelessly for United's application. United executives and employees donated $10,200 to Mr. Hastert's 2002 re-election campaign, according to Opensecrets.org, a Web site that tracks political contributions.
 ''There's an immense amount of political pressure being applied,'' said Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald of Illinois, who like Mr. Hastert is a Republican. Senator Fitzgerald cast the only vote against the bailout package in the Senate in 2001.
 The political atmosphere surrounding the United application ''is exactly why we don't want the government bailing out individual businesses,'' Mr. Reich said. ''The politics take over.'' Instead, he said, ''there is a perfectly logical and economically sound process that airlines can use, and that's reorganization under bankruptcy.'' 
 In the 1980's and 1990's, a number of well-known airlines that ran into financial trouble went out of business or were absorbed by other carriers, including Pan Am, Trans World Airways and Braniff. But Mr. Reich, Mr. Kelleher and others say the bailout program has blocked that process from working normally. ''It is, in essence, an interruption of the free market system,'' Mr. Kelleher said.
 Some carriers, like National and Vanguard, disappeared after they were turned down for loan guarantees by the loan board. Others, like America West and Frontier, are still in business largely because the board said yes. Frontier has already repaid the $63 million it borrowed in 2002. But US Airways still faces a hard struggle to pare its operations, to extract more cuts from its unions and to try to sell assets like its East Coast shuttle. Similarly, there is no guarantee that United, which has so far kept its global route structure largely intact in bankruptcy, can escape having to make more cuts even if its application is approved. 
 United said recently that it expected its cost for jet fuel to be $450 million higher this year than it forecast in the business plan submitted to the loan board in December. Because it is in bankruptcy, the airline has been unable to hedge its fuel costs with futures contracts, and the pension-cost relief under the new law, considered crucial to its loan application, will be eaten into by the fuel bills. 
 Mr. Kelleher, watching the situation from the security of a solvent carrier, said he did not believe the bailout plan would do lasting good for the industry. ''From a reasoned point of view, it doesn't make sense,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the federal airline loan guarantee program referred imprecisely to the circumstances under which America West revised covenants of its loan guarantees. While the government agreed to let America West keep some proceeds of an equity sale, rather than apply all of them to its outstanding loan, the change was not prompted by financial trouble at the airline.
 A chart with the article misstated the situation of Aloha Airlines, which filed for a loan guarantee. It did not seek bankruptcy protection.



An article in Business Day yesterday about the federal airline loan guarantee program referred imprecisely to the circumstances under which America West revised covenants of its loan guarantees. While the government agreed to let America West keep some proceeds of an equity sale, rather than apply all of them to its outstanding loan, the change was not prompted by financial trouble at the airline.
 A chart with the article misstated the situation of Aloha Airlines, which filed for a loan guarantee. It did not seek bankruptcy protection.




GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Seeking Help From the Government''Airlines that have applied for federal loan guarantees through the Air Transportation Stabilization Board.United AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: $1,600.0DATE APPLIED: June 24, '02RESULT: Pending 1US AirwaysLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 900.0DATE APPLIED: June 7, '02RESULT: Granted 2America WestLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 379.6DATE APPLIED: Nov. 13, '01RESULT: GrantedATA (American Trans Air)LOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 148.5DATE APPLIED: June 13, '02RESULT: GrantedEvergreen Intl AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 148.5DATE APPLIED: Feb. 25, '02RESULT: Granted 3Frontier AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 63.0DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: Granted 4Spirit AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 54.0DATE APPLIED: March 28, '02RESULT: DeniedNational AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 50.5DATE APPLIED: May 3, '02RESULT: Denied 5Aloha AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 40.5DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: Granted 6Gemini Air CargoLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 29.7DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: DeniedWorld AirwaysLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 27.0DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: GrantedGreat Plains AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 17.0DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: DeniedMEDjet InternationalLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 7.7DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: DeniedVanguard AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 7.5DATE APPLIED: Dec. 6, '01RESULT: Denied 5Corporate AirlinesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 7.0DATE APPLIED: June 28, '02RESULT: DeniedFrontier Flying ServiceLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 7.2DATE APPLIED: Jan. 29, '02RESULT: Denied1 United's original request for $1.8 million was rejected.2 US Airways fell in default of its loans and has since renegotiated them.3 Approved for only $90 million.4 Has already paid back loan.5 Went out of business.6 Filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.(Sources by Air Transportation Stabilization Board
 the airlines) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); BAILOUTS (94%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%) Airlines and Airplanes; Industry Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (84%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (50%) Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



293 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Increase 0.7%, Most in a Year; Retail Sales Off

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 13 

 BODY:
Wholesale prices, stoked by the higher costs of gasoline and food, registered their biggest increase in a year in April, providing fresh evidence that inflation is re-emerging. The Labor Department reported Thursday that the Producer Price Index, which measures the prices of goods before they reach stores, rose 0.7 percent, after a 0.5 percent gain in March.
 April's increase was the largest since a 1.3 percent rise in March 2003 and widely exceeded the 0.3 percent advance that economists forecast. 
 Excluding energy and food prices, the so-called core rate rose 0.2 percent in April for the second consecutive month, in line with expectations.
 In other economic news, sales at retailers dropped 0.5 percent in April after a 2 percent gain in March, the Commerce Department reported. The figures reflected a sharp drop in auto sales. Economists and other analysts viewed the decline as temporary because shoppers had splurged the month before, rather than as a harbinger of severe belt-tightening by consumers.
 Still, rising energy prices crimp spending in other areas, a possible factor in April's sales decline, analysts said. ''When consumers are forced to pay more at the pump, it affects their spending in other categories,'' said Tracy Mullin, president of the National Retail Federation.
 The Labor Department reported separately that new claims for unemployment benefits rose last week by 13,000, to 331,000. The more stable four-week moving average of claims, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations, fell to 335,750, the lowest since Nov. 25, 2000.
 Energy prices rose 1.6 percent in April, compared with 0.6 percent in March. Gasoline prices increased sharply, up 3.4 percent. Residential natural gas prices were up 2.5 percent and residential electric power costs increased 0.4 percent. Crude oil for delivery next month settled in New York yesterday at $41.08, another 20-year high.
 Food prices were up 1.4 percent in April, after a 1.5 percent rise in March. More than half the increase came from a 10.4 percent jump in the prices of dairy products, the biggest since July 1946. The higher dairy prices stem from factors including the use of more cows for beef and higher transportation costs to stores. Prices of beef, veal, pork and soft drinks were also higher.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks the index of finished goods prices from Nov. 2002 - April 2004.April: +0.7%March: +0.5Feb.: +0.1(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)Graph: ''Jobless Claims''Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time from Nov. 2003 - April 2004.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Retail Sales''Graph tracks the total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from Nov. 2002 - April 2004.April: -0.5%March: +2.0Feb.: +1.0(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); BEEF (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); MEATS (74%); PORK (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (62%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (60%); SOFT DRINKS (50%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Electric Light and Power; Futures and Options Trading ; Food; Dairy Products; Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (55%) Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



294 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2654 words

HEADLINE: 'My Fair Lady' In Miniature

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
As you might expect, the high society dress-up costumes are showy and elegant, especially the hats. The music rings a bell. And the lyrics seem familiar, even if you can't quite remember them without a cue:
 Every duke and earl and peer is here.
 Everyone who should be here is here. 
 The scene is the ''Ascot Gavotte,'' the spectacle of gorgeosity from that musical of musicals from 1956, ''My Fair Lady.'' It's the scene known for setting a breathtaking standard of extravagance on the stage that was only amplified in the 1964 screen version, and for inflating a huge balloon of pomposity that is gloriously punctured by the musical theater's most beloved societal interloper, Eliza Doolittle. You remember her ill-mannered exhortation of the nag Dover: ''Move yer bloomin' arse!''
 Here at the McCarter Theater Center, however, the new jewel-box second stage, the Berlind Theater, makes little of this possible. The stage measures only a few hoop skirts wide, it seems, hardly enough for a fashion parade, much less any kind of dance, an orchestra or a chorus.
 The ''My Fair Lady'' that opened here on Wednesday is likely to dash the expectations of anyone seeking the efflorescent pomp of the original or any of the show's myriad restagings. The imaginative product of two affable and boyish Chicagoans, the stage director Gary Griffin and the musical director Thomas Murray, this is ''My Fair Lady'' in miniature. They haven't cut any scenes or songs; virtually all of the original dialogue remains in place. But performed on an essentially bare stage, without a choreographer or a chorus, with a cast of a mere 10 and two pianos sitting in for an orchestra, the show bears more resemblance to its archly satiric source material (Shaw's ''Pygmalion,'' if you must be reminded) than to the luscious, clever musical written by Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe and initially directed with the juiciest panache by Moss Hart. 
 The natural question is, why? Why strip a beloved musical of the very thing that makes it beloved? For Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray, the better question is, why not? Why not see what else is hidden in the folds of a great work of art?
 ''It's like any great play, any classic,'' said Mr. Griffin, 43. ''It's there for re-examining, as long as you treat it with respect.''
 The re-examination, in this case, has to do with analyzing the story ''My Fair Lady'' tells, identifying its essentials and re-envisioning the musical. That is, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray did not shrink ''My Fair Lady'' from its accepted size; they built it from scratch on a different scale.
 ''I like to work on music theater the way you work on a great play,'' said Mr. Griffin, a veteran director around Chicago who is probably best known to New York theatergoers for the concert versions of ''Pardon My English'' in March and ''The New Moon,'' presented last year, in the Encores! series at City Center. ''Sometimes music theater relies on cliche or spectacle to pump up a moment and create an emotion we know how to respond to. And what Tom and I like to work on is not trying to develop the music theater moment, but trying to figure out the truthful event that's going on with the characters that the music can shape and reflect.''
 Mr. Murray, 37, added that in a musical like ''My Fair Lady,'' there is a great deal to discover. You can go through the show, he said, and see where the creators added sweep and spectacle to the foundation. 
 ''But it's not as if, in the writing, Lerner said to himself, 'Well, this is a big moment so I can write fluff lyrics,' '' Mr. Murray said. ''So when we decided we were going to look at some of the big scenes, we found a lot already there for us to use.'' 

Variations on the Familiar
 The Ascot scene is a case in point. In Mr. Griffin's staging there is no procession; instead, 9 of the show's 10 actors enter and exit in different groupings. (Michael McCarty, who plays Alfred P. Doolittle, Eliza's good-for-nothing charmer of a father, is the absentee.) And the scene becomes a series of brief glimpses into developing relationships. 
 With no chorus, the lyrics have been parceled out to different characters so that each sung line functions as a line of dialogue. The sweet-tempered feckless young swain, Freddy Eynsford-Hill (Jim Stanek), begins falling for Eliza (Kate Fry). The linguistics professor Henry Higgins (Michael Cumpsty) reacts with smug reserve and ill-concealed glee as his experiment in behavioral control has its first public airing. His friend, Colonel Pickering (Simon Jones), becomes overwrought with excitement and concern. 
 And Henry's mother (Jane Connell), whose box everyone eventually gathers in, grows more and more irritated at her son for bringing a mere flower girl to an important social event and turning what was supposed to be a pleasant and relaxing day at the races into a trial. In conventional stagings, when the chorus sings, the lyrics ''Pulses rushing! Faces flushing! Heartbeats speed up'' refer to anticipation of the race that is about to begin.
 But here, everyone in the box is not only waiting for the race to begin but also feeling uptight socially in some way. And when Mrs. Higgins finishes the verse, singing, ''I have never been so keyed up!,'' there is a moment of comedy and character revelation. It isn't flashy, but it's a new and theatrically rewarding twist on a familiar scene. 
 ''What is Ascot?'' Mr. Griffin said. ''It's a scene with a famous visual stroke that you can't do at all on this scale. But our thing is not just to make something smaller. It's about what would be fun about the piece if we didn't have the history of it?''
 Reducing the size of a musical makes it more manageable physically and economically, of course, and allows it to be seen in theaters where it would otherwise be impossible. In the 360-seat Berlind, the McCarter is mounting ''My Fair Lady'' for $600,000, a pittance compared with what a full-blown extravaganza might cost. (In July it will be in the modest-size auditorium of the Hartford Stage.) You can almost hear the sniffing sounds of hungry commercial producers who are hoping the show satisfies an audience as well as it does a pocketbook.

Boiling Down to the Essence
 Its other potential advantages are a little subtler, and those are the ones Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray have concentrated on. Mainly that what you don't get in a big musical in a big auditorium is a sense of intimacy with the characters or a nuanced view of their relationships, so the two men inverted what Lerner, Loewe and Hart did. 
 Instead of building around the scenes of posh extravagance, grandeur and musical frivolity -- that is, Ascot, the ball and Alfie Doolittle's Covent Garden frolics, ''With a Little Bit of Luck'' and ''Get Me to the Church on Time'' -- and linking them with the book scenes and smaller songs set in Henry's study, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray did the opposite. Their version is built around the study scenes, which they honed to a polish, with Ascot and the other big numbers refocused on the characters within them. It is an approach that the actors have felt keenly, making them think about making the music and the dialogue feed on each other.
 ''In rehearsal Gary always has both scripts with him, 'Pygmalion' and 'My Fair Lady,' '' Ms. Fry said. ''He's always going back to them. Clearly, or at least it seems to me, his top priority is to be completely true to the richness of the text. So one of the goals is not to make the songs five-minute diversions from the text, but extensions of scenes. And that doesn't only inform how you sing, but how you play the scene, because in order to rationalize any kind of song you have to be in some sort of heightened emotional state.''
 Mr. Cumpsty, who is not known as a musical-theater actor but who recently appeared nonetheless in ''42nd Street'' on Broadway, said he didn't at all miss the spectacle.
 ''I had all the sequins and bugle beads I needed on Broadway,'' he said. ''But having done mostly dramas, I would say that Gary, as an actor's director, is one of the most skilled I've ever worked with. He gives you a lot of space and then comes in and just nudges you in terms of action or intention or whatever. And to be doing a musical with someone who is so extremely precise about the text is fascinating.''
 And Mr. Jones, though the colonel in this production, played Henry in a fully inflated version of ''My Fair Lady'' at the Paper Mill Playhouse a dozen years ago, and said that making the show smaller made the actors bigger. 
 ''What's interesting is that when you get rid of the chorus, you remove a whole row of yes men,'' he said. ''So you have to justify yourself to the audience. You can say any old rubbish to a chorus and they've been trained to nod their heads, whether or not you're making any sense at all. But in this show you've really got to put it across.''
 One result of all this is that in the end, unlike most versions of ''My Fair Lady,'' which lean toward satisfying romantic closure, this one leaves it uncertain how Henry and Eliza resolve their feelings for each other. Anything might happen after the curtain; she might even decide to marry Freddy. This really is closer to the ending for ''Pygmalion,'' though Shaw was adamant that Eliza and Henry would never end up together.
 ''The idea,'' Mr. Murray said, looking as though he were mentally crossing his fingers, ''is that instead of being a sheer emotional high, it has a dramatic entertainment value as well.''

Wandering Into a Career
 Mr. Griffin, who was born in St. Louis and grew up in Rockford, Ill., wanted to be in journalism, which is what he began studying at the University at Wisconsin-Eau Claire, ''wandering into the theater,'' he said, and beginning to direct after he saw the work of the emerging Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago in the late 1970's. Learning that some members of that troupe had gone to Illinois State University, he enrolled there for graduate school, and eventually returned to Chicago to begin his career.
 Mr. Murray nearly vanished into technology. He grew up in El Paso, Tex., and traveled north for college, to Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., where his double major was music and computer science. He considered going into opera as a vocal coach, then gave up music for a while and worked as an artificial-intelligence programmer, though finally it didn't take and, as he put it, ''I migrated back.''
 The two met when Mr. Griffin had just taken over as the artistic director of the Drury Lane Theater in Oakbrook Terrace, Ill., and Mr. Murray was called in as an emergency replacement for a music director who had quit. That was in 1994, and they've been staging musicals together since.
 They don't like to think of themselves as miniaturists, which in any case would not be entirely accurate. At the Drury Lane they presented largely standard stagings of traditional musicals like ''West Side Story'' and ''City of Angels.'' Among many other projects, they staged, in 1999, with the help of Stephen Sondheim, the first production of Mr. Sondheim's early musical ''Saturday Night,'' with the Pegasus Players, a small Chicago troupe. 
 Mr. Griffin (whose ''New Moon'' had a total of 46 singers and dancers onstage) will direct a new musical based on the Alice Walker novel ''The Color Purple,'' at the Alliance Theater in Atlanta this fall. In addition to other larger works, Mr. Murray was the musical director for the national tour of ''Parade.''
 But like sculptors whose hobby is building intricate model ships and bottling them, these men have developed a subspecialty of making musicals small. They collaborated on two Sondheim musicals, ''Pacific Overtures'' and ''Sunday in the Park With George,'' which were presented at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater, each production carving its peculiar performance space out of a tiny top-floor auditorium. Originally, those shows were elaborately presented in proscenium theaters. But Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray staged ''Pacific Overtures,'' about the opening of Japan to the West, on a square wooden platform surrounded by the audience. 
 ''We liked the idea of the stage as a floating island,'' Mr. Griffin said.
 Even more daringly, ''Sunday,'' partly about the creation of a painting by Georges Seurat, and hence about perspective, was presented in its entirety on a slender runway with the audience on either side.
 ''Maybe it was just mischievous on our part,'' Mr. Griffin said. ''But Tom and I asked ourselves: 'Does that show really have to have a proscenium? Could it be you could tell that story if you didn't have the backdrop? Is there a way that perspective has a larger meaning than what the play says it means?' ''
 Both men say their strength is in how closely they work together, and you can see it in the rehearsal room. They check with each other constantly, often with just a nod or a gesture agreeing to adjust a dramatic beat or a musical phrase.
 Mr. Murray speaks about how watching Mr. Griffin work with actors on a script has helped him in coaching singers, and has allowed him to see that in a well-conceived and well-written musical, when the actor has nailed the character, the character will more easily find the musicality in the songs. 
 ''In giving the actors something to act and play through the songs, he's doing my job for me in a way,'' Mr. Murray said, ''because often the voice will respond to that kind of direction.''

An Earlier 'Lady'
 Mr. Griffin, for his part, says he considers lyrics to be lines of dialogue and melodic phrasing to be elements of character. ''Our interest over the years has been to make music, book and lyric seamless,'' he said. ''They're not departmentalized in how we think about the show, or how we speak about the show.'' 
 It helps, Mr. Murray said, that they have done so many shows together. And it helps even more, he said, that this is their second pass at ''My Fair Lady.'' Two years ago they staged it at the Court Theater, a professional company affiliated with the University of Chicago. That production evolved from an unsatisfying but instructive workshop of the show that had only five characters: Eliza, Freddy, Henry, Pickering and Alfie. (The two-piano orchestration was done in the 1950's by Trude Rittman, who was best known as a choreographer but who was asked by Loewe to make the arrangement. If it hadn't existed, Mr. Murray said, he would have done his own arrangement, ''with piano, bass, harp and woodwind or cello or something.'')
 For the current production, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Murray have made slight text changes, reinstating a character (Mrs. Hopkins, a friend of Alfie) though not adding an actor. (Brenda Martindale, who plays Freddy's mother, doubles in the part.) The set has also been modified slightly to accommodate the Berlind, which is a bit larger than the Court. The set has two tiers, an upstairs platform with a balustrade, connected to the stage floor by a spiral staircase.
 But the biggest difference is in the cast. Only Ms. Fry, as Eliza, is repeating her role.
 ''To be honest, it was a little daunting at first,'' Mr. Griffin said of taking on a work that is such a favorite and so keenly stamped on the public mind. ''People have so many expectations of this show. What I hope happens, and what Tom and I talk about a lot, is that even though you know you're not going to see the production values -- you walk into the theater and see the stage and the set and you know that's not going to happen -- what might be wonderful is that you'll discover more about the cleverness of the book and how smart the lyric writing is.''

Loverly
 ''My Fair Lady'' will run through June 27 in the Berlind Theater of the McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place, Princeton, N.J. Performances are Tuesdays through Fridays at 7:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 and 8:30 p.m.; Sundays at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $39 to $50. Information: (609) 258-2787.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Weekend on Friday about a miniature production of ''My Fair Lady'' at the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, N.J., misspelled the surname of the arranger of the 1950's two-piano orchestration of the musical and misstated her specialty. She is Trude Rittmann, not Rittman, and she was best known as a choral and dance music arranger, not as a choreographer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Griffin, director of a small-scale ''My Fair Lady.'' (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Thomas Murray, far left, Gary Griffin and Michael Cumpsty.
Extreme makeover: Michael Cumpsty and Kate Fry.
 Simon Jones as Colonel Pickering, left, Kate Fry as Eliza Doolittle and Michael Cumpsty as Henry Higgins. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. E24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); THEATER (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Mccarter Theater (Princeton, NJ)

PERSON: Gary Griffin; Thomas Murray; Bruce Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



295 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Constitutional Court Reinstates South Korea's Impeached President

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Friday, May 14 

 BODY:
South Korea's nine-member Constitutional Court ruled Friday to dismiss the impeachment case against President Roh Moo Hyun, restoring full powers to the president, in a case that had tested the nation's fledgling democracy.
 The ruling ended a crisis for South Korea, a major American ally and one of Asia's most dynamic economies, that began March 12, when the National Assembly unexpectedly approved a bill to impeach Mr. Roh on minor election law violations. A month later, voters punished conservative parliamentary candidates and tripled the seats of the Uri Party, a new liberal coalition that backs Mr. Roh, giving it a slim majority in the one-chamber National Assembly. 
 During Mr. Roh's two months of political limbo, presidential powers were exercised by the prime minister, Goh Kun. Mr. Roh resumed power immediately after the ruling. 
 This new political lease of life, coupled with control of the National Assembly, is expected to allow Mr. Roh to pursue a more activist agenda: to move the capital from Seoul to the nation's center, to soften the National Security Law which brands North Korea as ''the enemy,'' to strengthen antitrust laws against the chaebols, or conglomerates, and to place more distance in the close relationship with the United States.
 In a turn of the generational wheel, last month's vote elected a younger, more liberal National Assembly, where few have personal memories of the Korean War. In polls, majorities of Uri Party legislators have identified themselves as ''progressives,'' and have said South Korea's relations with China are more important than ties with the United States.
 Now, Mr. Roh must decide what to do about his promise to send 3,200 more troops to Iraq this summer, which would make the South Korean contingent the third largest, after the American and British.
 ''The No.1 issue for Roh Moo Hyun is Iraq,'' Richard C. Holbrooke, chairman of the Asia Society, said Thursday after meetings here with Mr. Roh's aides. ''They don't want Roh's rebirth screwed up by Iraq.''
 South Korea already has 450 military medics and engineers in Iraq. Last February, over angry public protests, the National Assembly voted to approve the deployment. Now, some Uri Party legislators are calling for a new authorizing vote. 
 On Tuesday, Uri Party members elected Chun Jung Bae, a former human rights lawyer, as their floor leader. Mr. Chun has floated the idea of sending money instead of troops.
 Further to the left, the Democratic Labor Party, now the third force in the National Assembly, is trying to organize legislators to block the troop dispatch. It wants the United States to withdraw its 37,000 troops from South Korea, and wants to abolish the National Security Law, which penalizes Communist activities here.
 The impeachment ended the legislative careers of four conservative leaders of the drive, and reduced the main pro-impeachment party, the Millennium Democrats, to fourth place. But the Grand National Party, a bulwark of traditional conservatism, still controls 40 percent of the seats, enough to block legislation on national security issues.
 ''The principle of the nation's plan to dispatch troops to Iraq, once approved by the National Assembly, must be kept,'' Park Geun Hye, the party's leader, said Monday.
 Many South Koreans say they hope Mr. Roh will work more smoothly with the National Assembly to address economic worries. In recent days, South Korea's stock market was buffeted by the news that China, the country's largest trading partner, is trying to curb its growth, that the United States may raise interest rates and that oil prices have hit $40 a barrel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); VERDICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (51%) Impeachment; Elections; Decisions and Verdicts; Politics and Government ; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%) James Brooke; Roh Moo Hyun (Pres); Goh Kun (Prime Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



296 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; Resolute Bay Journal

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Undaunted Arctic Couriers, Coming In With the Veggies

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: RESOLUTE BAY, Nunavut 

 BODY:
Takeoff is delayed for several minutes when the Global Positioning System locks up, apparently from the cold. Once the plane is airborne, the terrain below is a white swirling desert, sculptured of snow and ice. Then a sudden fog settles in.
 ''It's pretty fuzzy today, not a lot of definition,'' Troy McKerral, captain of the DHC-6 Twin Otter, says matter-of-factly. ''It's not a whiteout, but it makes it difficult to pick up any specific spots or places.'' 
 The complications are not nearly enough to abort the flight to resupply a lead and zinc mine on Little Cornwallis Island, an otherwise uninhabited ice-encased landmass more than 600 miles north of the Arctic Circle, and even farther from the nearest tree. 
 For Captain McKerral and his co-pilot, Erin McEvoy, and other Arctic fliers like them, it is just another day at the office. 
 For a living they land on trackless floating ice or short gravel runways, sometimes made shorter by a herd of caribou. Their landings are usually uneventful, unless the skis attached to the underbelly of their craft break through the ice, as they are increasingly wont to do with global warming. Then there is the occasional polar bear who lurks around the hangar.
 The pilots buzz through steep foggy fjords to deliver the mail, fresh food and medical supplies to remote Inuit communities. They take explorers and scientific expeditions to the North Pole and medevac women in labor to the area's few hospitals. Basically, they keep Canada whole.
 More than a third of Canada is Arctic wilderness, and the Arctic pilots are vital to the development of the icy north. They are the modern equivalent of the country's fabled rough-and-tumble ''bush pilots,'' men who returned from World War I with enough gumption in their hearts and bile in their bellies to explore and chart the vast territory early last century. 
 ''When we go on the glaciers, we depend on them to bring us everything for our stays of two, three or four weeks,'' said Jocelyne Bourgeois, a government glacierologist studying global warming in the Arctic. ''And they are the ones who come back to get us.''
 Remote as it is, the Arctic is an area of rapid social and economic development. The dominant Inuit population has evolved in just two generations from migratory hunters dependent on dogs to get around to a more or less modern lifestyle in rural communities where children learn on computers and adults buy food at supermarkets and motor about on snowmobiles, and tourism, mining and transport services generate jobs.
 Such a world would be unthinkable without the pilots flying their Twin Otters, Dash-8's and Douglas DC-3's over vast frozen areas without roads. ''Everybody has something that makes them feel good,'' Mr. McKerral said. ''Mine is bringing people a few extra veggies that day.''
 Mr. McKerral, 41, was born in Edmonton but has spent the better part of his life in the great white north. His father was also an Arctic pilot. He met his wife, a registered nurse, in the Arctic town of Inuvik. Both his own sons were born there. He says the simple northern life is fine by him.
 ''I like the remoteness,'' he said. ''It's unspoiled and, I mean, it's the last frontier. If I take a day trip into a city, I look forward to leaving. Bad drivers keep trying to run me off the road.''
 When Mr. McKerral is not flying he is living in an eight-room crew house with other pilots and flight personnel from Kenn Borek Air Ltd. , who rotate here for a few weeks at a time before heading home for a few weeks in the south.
 The crew house is reminiscent of a college dormitory, and everyone shares the cooking and cleaning chores. The kitchen is decorated with aviation maps and the cupboards are filled with jars of peanut butter, cans of jellied cranberry sauce, and packages of Kraft pizza and Shake 'n Bake. There is a frozen narwhal whale steak in the freezer, a gift from a grateful passenger.
 Part of a plane fuselage sticks out of the ice outside the kitchen window, a vivid reminder of the potential dangers of the job. Resolute Bay is virtually a graveyard of old planes, ranging from a Fairchild F-27 that crashed in the 1970's to an Avro Lancaster World War II bomber converted to deliver mail in the 1950's, before it met an untimely end.
 There is a helicopter fuselage on the ground, as well as the tail of a Douglas DC-3 poking out of the ice like a grave marker. Much of the wreckage can be seen by pilots and passengers while landing here.
 Still, the pilots insist that the grave danger of flying in these parts is now a thing of the past. The introduction of gas turbine engines in the 1960's and of antifreezing additives to fuel in the 1970's made the planes much more reliable. Global positioning revolutionized navigation in the late 1980's.
 The Arctic pilots today are heavily regulated, and employers carefully screen fliers with psychological tests to keep out the wilder crowd that flew around these parts in the early days. The fliers privately talk about bending some rules, like buzzing at low altitudes over remote national parks, flying overweight with extra fuel for long distances, and flying with G.P.S. systems not certified by the government.
 ''G.P.S. has taken the romance right out of flying because it's made it so easy,'' said John Downey, 55, an experienced Arctic pilot who flies out of Iqaluit, while waiting between flights in his hanger office.
 But he quickly contradicted himself, while sipping from his cup of coffee. ''It's still exciting to land on a piece of ground with no tracks,'' he said. ''Nobody has been there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: That could be Mars down there. The Polaris lead and zinc mine on Little Cornwallis Island, an otherwise uninhabited spot more than 600 miles north of the Arctic Circle and even farther from the nearest tree.
Troy McKerral , in sunglasses, and his co-pilot, Erin McEvoy, watch as miners board their Twin Otter plane.
 The hamlet of Pond Inlet is one of the stops for Kenn Borek Air Ltd. The mountains in the background are part of Sirmilik National Park. (Photographs by Robert J. Galbraith for The New York Times)Map of Nunavut highlighting Resolute Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); MAMMALS (87%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); SKIING (77%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (73%); WILDERNESS (72%); MARINE MAMMALS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (69%); CHILDREN (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (60%); WORLD WAR I (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Inuit Indians; Indians, American

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NUNAVUT, CANADA (92%) ARCTIC (99%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



297 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1; HAVENS

LENGTH: 2909 words

HEADLINE: What Price Summer?

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR

 BODY:
FORGET the old saw about early birds. When it comes to summer rentals these days, from New York's fashionable Hamptons to the family-oriented beach towns of the Outer Banks, it's a procrastinator's market. Real estate brokers blame everything from the Web (it lets people see which houses have really already been rented) to the economy and the continuing news from Iraq for the shift. ''The world is kind of upside down,'' said Jerry Grass, a real estate broker from Lake Orion, Mich., who owns a vacation property on the Upper Peninsula. ''People are kind of feeling their way.''
 Just ask Kristina Taylor and her husband, David, who have rented a house on Cape Cod for two weeks in August since 1980. Usually their plans are set by March, but this year the Taylors, who live in Ann Arbor, Mich., waited until early May to book. They found a bayside contemporary cape in Wellfleet, Mass., with four bedrooms and two bathrooms. And then knocked $300 a week off the price, bringing it to $1,650 a week -- $50 less per week than they paid last year. ''I was pleasantly surprised,'' Ms. Taylor said. 
 This will be the fourth summer of relatively flat prices in many resorts around the country. In part, that's because of the rapid increase in vacation-home sales (according to the National Association of Realtors there were an estimated 445,000 second homes sold in the United States last year, up from 359,000 in 2001), taking many renters out of the market. Then there's the still-weak economy in many spots and a growing feeling among renters that they should be able to get a bargain. ''Every caller we get wants us to negotiate,'' said Sue Peters, rental manager for Cape Shores Real Estate in Wellfleet. ''It's getting old.''
 Of course, not everyone is scaling back this summer. In the Hamptons, where sticker shock is an art form, Denise Rich, the songwriter and Bill Clinton confidante, has rented out her Southampton estate, Swan's Way, for the season. Ms. Rich, who bought the house in 1999, had two bidders angling for her house and ultimately rented it out for a reported $530,000 for Memorial Day to Labor Day. It does have easy access to the Southampton heliport, plus a 7-bedroom, 11-bath main house; a 4-bedroom, 5-bath guesthouse; tennis courts; indoor and outdoor pools; and Cooper's Neck Pond waterfront. And come fall, it will be for sale. Asking price: $23 million.
 Here, with the unofficial start of summer just two weeks away, a look at the state of vacation rentals in 10 popular resort areas around the country, from east to west.

Mount Desert Island, Me.
 If you're looking for oceanfront on this island off the northern coast of Maine, you're out of luck. According to Danielle Davis, owner of the Davis Agency in Southwest Harbor, all of the agency's waterfront homes have been snapped up. But rentals of other properties, ranging from cabins in the woods to village homes and old-fashioned lakefront farmhouses, are slightly down from last year. Prices for a four-bedroom house in a village are $1,500 to $1,800 a week; ocean and lakefront houses range from $2,000 to $10,000 a week. Most rentals are for two weeks.
 The big attraction is the 47,000-acre Acadia National Park, with its miles of hiking and biking trails and views from the top of Cadillac Mountain. Along the rugged coast of the island, which is about a five-hour drive from Boston, are the quaint villages of Bar Harbor, Tremont, Southwest Harbor and Northeast Harbor. 
 ''The beauty of this area is that you can swim, canoe, kayak, walk along the shore and climb over the rocks,'' Ms. Davis said. ''There's a lot to do, and it's free.'' 
 One factor that's helping hold prices down: A growing number of houses for rent. Taxes in many towns have risen over the last few years, with taxes on waterfront properties in some places doubling. Ms. Davis said her agency has recently been getting about 25 new properties a year to rent; last year, 40 new places came on the market. ''People probably need to rent their houses out to pay the expenses,'' she said.

Wellfleet, Mass.
 The Taylors aren't the only procrastinators looking for a bargain in this historic Cape Cod town. Though Wellfleet's big houses are usually booked up by May, this year many are still available, said Ms. Peters of Cape Shores Real Estate. Instead, renters seem to be flocking to smaller two-bedroom houses that rent for about $1,000 a week. In another trend, many vacationers are opting for one week instead of two. 
 No one is ever very far from the water in Wellfleet, since the town sits between the Atlantic Ocean and Wellfleet Harbor, a distance of only about three miles at the widest point. Housing ranges from classic New England saltboxes and capes to Greek Revival and contemporary houses. In addition to beaches, there are many freshwater ponds, which make the area popular with families. Sixty-one percent of the town is taken up by the Cape Cod National Seashore, a protected area for hiking, biking and nature walks through the marshes, sand dunes and forests of pitch pine and scrub oak.
 A house with three bedrooms on the waterfront typically goes for $5,000 a week. Ms. Peters recently rented a four-bedroom, two-bath house that usually costs $1,850 a week in August for $1,500. And with summer approaching, the discounts may get even steeper, she said. ''It's 'Let's Make a Deal' time.''

The Hamptons, N.Y.
 In the Hamptons, the typical rental -- four bedrooms and a pool -- starts at $40,000 for the season. Though Ms. Rich got her asking price, not everyone has been so lucky. Gene Rindfuss, a sales associate at Coldwell Banker Dunes View Properties in Westhampton, said there are still lots of properties available, including a five-bedroom modern oceanfront house for $125,000, and a five-bedroom, four-bath new house near the village with a pool and tennis courts for $50,000. ''Owners are calling and getting panicky,'' he said. (But they're not cutting prices -- yet.)
 Unlike rentals in many seashore resorts, those in the Hamptons, with fine restaurants, beautiful beaches, lively bars and opportunities for celebrity spotting, tend to be for the season (or, increasingly, for at least a month). The summer rentals market lives and dies by Wall Street. ''When bonuses were strong, rentals were strong,'' said Gina Decker, managing broker of Century 21 Agawam Albertson in Southampton. Last summer, the stock market's woes and rainy weather in May and June had demand and prices down; this year, agents expect prices to stay about the same. Ms. Decker said that at her agency the season is ''off to a steady but slow start.''
 As elsewhere, one of the biggest changes in the area has been the rental season's kickoff. Traditionally, New Yorkers had their Hamptons places already rented by Presidents' Day. Now, Mr. Rindfuss said, ''they wait until the last minute. It's already mid-May and people are looking to rent Memorial Day through Labor Day.''
 Janet Hummel, manager of the Corcoran Group in Bridgehampton, said that rentals in the areas she handles, including Sagaponack and Wainscott, were running ahead of last year, though there were some properties in the middle range -- about $50,000 -- still left. One is a four-bedroom, four-bath traditional-style house with farm views on an acre with a heated pool and three fireplaces. The owner of the house was offered $35,000 for it this week and turned it down, Ms. Hummel said. ''Last year we had a lot more bottom feeders coming out in May, making a bunch of offers and grabbing whoever gave them the best price,'' she said. ''This year you still have the bottom feeders offering landlords $20,000 less, but the landlords aren't discounting.''

Ocean City, N.J.
 On the Jersey Shore, Michael Monihan, president and co-owner of Monihan Realty in Ocean City, figures gas prices near $2 a gallon could be good for business. Most vacationers are from the Philadelphia area, a one- or two-hour drive away. ''When gas prices are high, most people stay closer to home,'' he said. 
 Ocean City, a quintessential Jersey Shore town, is on a seven-and-a-half-mile-long barrier island about a 20-minute drive south of Atlantic City. It was founded 125 years ago by Methodist ministers as a summer retreat. There is a boardwalk with amusement rides, salt-water taffy stores and fudge shops, but no bars or restaurants that serve alcohol, making it a popular destination for families.
 Mr. Monihan said houses for prime-time weeks -- from mid-July through the third week of August -- are going fast. A typical rental is a three- or four-bedroom unit in a duplex, with rents ranging from $1,500 to $2,300 a week, depending on distance from the beach. (Among the most sought-after blocks are in the so-called Gold Coast, along the beach from 23rd to 29th Streets.) Renters can expect prices to stay about the same this summer because the stock of houses keeps growing. Many older one-family houses are being torn down and replaced with modern duplexes that are more attractive to renters, said Steve Booth, a real estate broker and manager of Prudential Fox & Roach Realtors in Ocean City. 
 Mr. Booth said that his agency's rentals were down 7 percent the first four months of this year compared with the same period last year, though he believed things would catch up by the end of the summer. And here, too, renters are booking later, tracking their houses on the Web without putting any money down. ''Now, instead of booking by the first week in February, they can wait until the last week in June,'' he said.

Duck, N.C.
 North Carolina's Outer Banks stretch for almost 100 miles, from the Virginia border to Ocracoke and Portsmouth Islands to the south. It's a once-sleepy area of sand dunes and fishing towns, now turned into a summer destination for more than 7 million annual visitors. There are no boardwalks, amusement parks, nightclubs or fine dining. Those who can tear their sun-tanned bodies away from the dune-fringed beaches can go hang-gliding, parasailing, kayaking and fishing. 
 Explosive growth in recent years means prices haven't gone up since 2000. Indeed, according to Beth Dobney, a sales consultant for Coldwell Banker Seaside Realty in Kitty Hawk, N.C., over the last three years the number of new houses being built in the area has grown by 25 percent annually. Tim Cafferty, president and general manager of ResortQuest Outer Banks, in Duck on the north end of the banks, agreed. ''We may be seeing a dilution of the market,'' he said. ''There may be just as many people, but more properties to choose from.''
 The biggest bargains are older houses, local agents say, because many renters prefer new places -- Ms. Dobney called them ''mini-resorts'' -- with amenities like pools, hot tubs, game rooms and even high-speed Internet access. Air-conditioning is now a must, according to Mr. Cafferty. For all that, renters can expect to pay $3,000 a week for a five-bedroom, four-bath house several hundred feet from the beach. On the high end, a 9-bedroom, 10-bath oceanfront house that sleeps 26 goes for $15,000 a week. Typically, two or more families will share the same house. ''We are family-reunion oriented,'' Mr. Cafferty said.

Gulf Shores, Ala.
 Though this spot, on a 38-mile-long island off the gulf coast of Alabama and Florida, boasts fine, white-sand beaches and deep blue waters, it has never been as popular -- or as pricey -- as better-known places like Kiawah Island, S.C., or Destin, Fla., just a short trip down the Florida panhandle. This summer, bookings are up compared with last year, and so are rental prices, by about 5 percent, according to David Goodman, marketing manager for Meyer Real Estate in Gulf Shores. 
 Much of the development in the Gulf Shores and nearby Orange Beach sections of the island has come in the last 15 years, and rentals in those areas tend to be in 13- or 14-story high-rises. A three-bedroom, two-bath gulf-front condominium rents for $1,575 a week in the peak month of July, and drops to $900 a week just after Labor Day. In Fort Morgan, at the western end, there are more single-family houses, including some in newly developed communities like Martinique on the Gulf, a West Indies-style development with its own beach and tennis clubs.

St. Ignace, Mich.
 This harbor town on Michigan's Upper Peninsula is the eastern gateway to the peninsula, connected by a five-mile-long suspension bridge from Mackinac City over the Straits of Mackinac. Most people who vacation here are drawn from Detroit, about 300 miles to the south, or Chicago, more than a six-hour drive away. 
 So far, waterfront properties (you can be on either Lake Michigan to the west or Lake Huron to the east) have been renting briskly, according to Cheryl Schlehuber, a broker and the owner of Mackinac Properties in St. Ignace. But then prices for its waterfront are modest compared with much of the country, with rents ranging from $700 to $1,300 a week for a two- or three-bedroom, one-bath cottage. ''We're very affordable for the average family,'' Ms. Schlehuber said.
 Mr. Grass, the Michigan real estate broker, has been renting out his two-bedroom, two-bath condo overlooking Lake Huron for the last three years. So far, he has booked 60 percent to 70 percent of the weeks available, slightly behind last year. And though he has raised the price a total of 10 percent since he started renting out his place, this year there will be no increase. ''The economy is coming back,'' he said, ''but it's not back yet.''

Bigfork, Mont.
 Last year, this town on the northeast corner of Flathead Lake managed to escape massive forest fires that decimated 300,000 largely uninhabited acres north of the Flathead Valley, a big bowl dominated by the 30-mile-long, 16-mile-wide lake. Now, the fires are out, but that hasn't kept some would-be renters from worrying, said Tom Vitek, who with his wife, Jane, owns Somers Bay Log Cabin Lodging in Bigfork. The couple's seven log cabins rent weekly for between $900 and $1,600, or by the night. So far, this is the slowest season the Viteks have seen since they bought the resort seven years ago. 
 Peter Burkett, owner of All Pro Rental in nearby Kalispell said bookings are a little slower this year compared with last. Prices range from $895 a week for a two-bedroom house to $3,500 a week for a house that sleeps 15. Visitors to the area can find everything from fine restaurants to wilderness hiking -- not to mention Glacier National Park just 30 miles away. And Flathead Lake is even warm enough to swim in, Mr. Burkett said. The only drawback: Beaches are gravel, not sand. 
 Will prices be discounted to lure more renters? ''We'll see how the summer goes,'' Mr. Vitek said.

San Diego
 The market may be slow elsewhere in the country, but by now, most oceanfront rentals in Mission Beach and Pacific Beach have been snapped up. The two communities sit a few miles apart, bordered by the Pacific Ocean and Mission Bay.
 The one bright spot for summer renters: After years of big rate increases in the late 90's, prices have stabilized, according to Greg Flaherty, president of Penny Realty in San Diego. A typical oceanfront three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath two-story town house rents for $4,300 a week in July and August, dropping to $2,400 off season. An inland three-bedroom, two-bath house with a partial ocean view costs $2,600 a week in July and August, $2,100 in the off-season. 
 There is a boardwalk with amusement rides and games, including an old-fashioned wooden roller coaster, and a never-ending parade of joggers, cyclists and in-line skaters, some of whom delight in dressing up in outlandish costumes. Downtown San Diego is just a 10- to 15-minute drive away.
 Although most vacationers drive from Arizona or northern California, Mr. Flaherty said high gas prices did not seem to be keeping them away. ''It's a concern in the back of my mind,'' he said, ''but it hasn't hurt us yet.''

San Juan Island, Wash.
 In the 25 minutes it takes to drive from one end of San Juan Island to the other, there is not one traffic light. The speed limit never exceeds 45 miles per hour. Once off the ferry in Friday Harbor, the small-town gateway to this 26-mile-long, 14-mile-wide island between the mainland and Vancouver Island, you can kiss your Type A tendencies goodbye. ''Your whole lifestyle slows down,'' said WendyKay Gewiss, vacation rental manager for Windermere Vacation Rentals in Friday Harbor. 
 The market, on the other hand, has remained brisk. This year, people started booking as early as November, and some have put down deposits for the summer of 2005. And though Ms. Gewiss says her agency has more large houses in its rental pool this year, they are still going -- and prices are holding steady. The most coveted properties are on the northwest coast, ranging from $2,200 to $2,700 a week for a house that sleeps eight. Small one- or two-bedroom cottages are $1,000 to $1,300. Almost all houses are on the waterfront or have water views. 
 Because San Juan is in a ''rain shadow,'' it can be sunny and 10 degrees warmer even when it is raining 100 miles to the south in Seattle. Sailing, kayaking and biking are big, but with water temperatures hovering from 47 to 53 degrees year-round, most people leave their swimsuits behind. One of the most popular pastimes is killer whale watching, especially when sitting on the deck of an oceanfront house with a Gorgonzola-stuffed olive martini in hand and the sun sinking into the Pacific.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of editing errors, an article in Escapes on May 14 about the summer rental market around the country referred incorrectly to the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The area has about five million visitors a year, not seven million or more; it indeed offers fine-dining restaurants and nightclubs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEACH TIME -- Lawry Keyes and his 4-year-old daughter, Riley, who live in Boston, took a walk along Mayo Beach in Wellfleet, Mass., last weekend. Many big houses are still available and late-comers are getting bargains. (Photo by Stephen Rose for The New York Times)
ANTICIPATION -- Daffodils, left, bloom against a fence in East Hampton, N.Y. A pier stretches into the waters of San Juan Island in Washington. An angler waits for a bite on the beach in Gulf Shores, Ala. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks/The New York Times, far left
Robert Demar for The New York Times, center
and Manuel M. Chavez for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
SUMMER PLACES -- Rental markets may ebb and flow, but many top seasonal destinations maintain their attraction. From top, David Charczark views Long Island Sound from Gerard Park in the Springs, a hamlet in the town of East Hampton, N.Y.
a beachgoer relaxes on the fine white sands at Gulf Shores, Ala.
Ted Ridolfi tends his garden in Truro, Mass., on Cape Cod
and ferries operate off San Juan Island in Washington. (Photo by Robert Demar for The New York Times)
(Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)
(Photo by Stephen Rose for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Manuel M. Chavez for The New York Times)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESORTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LODGING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); US LABOR DAY (73%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Computers and the Internet; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

PERSON: Julia Lawlor

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



298 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2240 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Friday night only.

Broadway

*+ ''ASSASSINS.'' This is what they always wanted, isn't it? A clear shot at the big time, where people would have to pay attention to them? More than a decade after they first surfaced to critical shudders and head-scratching, the unhappy have-nots of ''Assassins'' -- the glitteringly dark musical by Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman about Americans who dream of killing their country's presidents -- have finally made it to Broadway. So can these desperate people, whose greatest fear is of being thought small, actually expand in proportion to the lavish production they have been given? Oh boy, can they ever. Accompanied by a sumptuously full orchestra and portrayed by a cast that finds the magnetism in rage and resentment, the frightening title characters of ''Assassins'' are restating their demand to be noticed in this Roundabout Theater Company production. And under Joe Mantello's direction, they are doing so with an eloquence and an intensity that make a compelling case for a show once regarded as a mere curiosity as a major piece from a major composer (1:50). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $36.25 to $91.25 (Ben Brantley).

''BOMBAY DREAMS.'' Colors don't come any juicier than those that saturate this $14 million musical about movie-love Bollywood-style. Scarcely a scene goes by that isn't splashed with gorgeous heaping helpings of oranges, golds, greens, purples, yellows and more shades of pink than even Estee Lauder had names for. Yet such is the perverse spell cast by this friendly, flat and finally unengaging tale of glamorous movie stars and lovable untouchables that everything seems to melt into one neutral blur before your eyes, like a monochromatic symphony in the key of beige. A R Rahman's score has a certain rhythmic infectiousness. And as a self-centered Bollywood screen siren, the deliciously superficial Ayesha Dharker helps turn the central production numbers into lively paeans to Bollywood kitsch. But under the direction of Steven Pimlott, this retooling of a hit from London feels trapped in a listless limbo between tipsy spoof and sober sincerity (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $42.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ ''CAROLINE, OR CHANGE.'' A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner (''Angels in America'') and Jeanine Tesori (''Thoroughly Modern Millie''), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through ''Caroline,'' from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score that avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement, ''Caroline'' handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $101 (Brantley).

*+ ''FROZEN.'' For a play centered on a serial murderer of little girls, Bryony Lavery's humane, intelligent drama is striking for its sustained aura of ordinariness. ''Frozen'' is indeed the story of the brutal killing of a child and its repercussions. Yet no trace of sensationalism colors Doug Hughes's beautifully acted, carefully considered production, which stars Swoosie Kurtz (as the child's mother), Brian F. O'Byrne (as the murderer) and Laila Robins (as an academic specializing in serial killers). No sinister, spine-tingling music or screams of terror and pain are heard. Instead, a contemplative quiet enfolds the stage. And the characters, who often speak in monologues, don't so much vent their intense emotions as betray them through involuntary eruptions that they quickly stifle. In the age of the Amber Alert and Megan's Law, ''Frozen'' brings a coolly discursive attitude to a hot-button subject. This is not to say it is in any way unfeeling (2:15). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $85 (Brantley).

*+ ''JUMPERS.'' Acrobatics aren't just for athletes in this high-flying revival of Tom Stoppard's 1972 play. Though the show features an enthusiastic team of bouncing gymnasts, everyone in ''Jumpers'' jumps, in one way or another -- verbally, emotionally, morally. And with a cast headed by Simon Russell Beale, in a dazzling Broadway debut, such exertions turn this comic mystery of murder, marriage and metaphysics into one of the most entertaining exercise sessions available. Leaps of faith, back-flipping politics, somersaulting, self-inverting words and free-falling nervous breakdowns are all on offer in the restless, relativistic world of ''Jumpers.'' The director David Leveaux appropriately serves up a show that never seems to stop spinning, from its chic revolving set to the frantic, farcical movements of its characters. But at the same time, this luscious import from the Royal National Theater of Great Britain, which also stars the divine Essie Davis, finds a wounded, hungry heart beneath the razzle dazzle. A play often dismissed as too clever by half now registers clearly as a poignant acknowledgment of the limits of cleverness (2:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m.; Tickets: $60 to $95 (Brantley).

''A RAISIN IN THE SUN.'' Sean Combs's shadow precedes him in this seriously off-center revival of Lorraine Hansberry's epochal drama of an African-American family in Southside Chicago. Will the very 21st-century figure who is Mr. Combs (a k a P. Diddy), whose career has been a triumph of nerve over probability, be able to evoke a man of thwarted dreams from the mid-20th century? Unfortunately, while the opening, engagingly boyish moments of his performance have promise, his Walter Lee Younger never appears to change, happy or sad, drunk or sober. His evenly measured words and debating team captain's gestures remain pretty much the same. And while Audra McDonald and Phylicia Rashad do sterling work as Walter Lee's wife and mother, much of Kenny Leon's production exudes the single-note perkiness of a sitcom. Instead of contrasting the forces of an older, God-fearing generation with a fresh revolutionary spirit (embodied by Walter Lee and his sister, played by Sanaa Lathan), the show becomes an unwitting counterpoint of mature and callow acting styles (2:30). Royale Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26.25 to $91.25 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

+ ''THE DISTANCE FROM HERE.'' The poetic, brooding wistfulness of the title doesn't quite capture the essence of Neil LaBute's play. A more appropriate name for this less than subtle study of hope-starved American youth might be ''The Crass Menagerie.'' The play begins with two loutish lads hurling themselves against a railing in a zoo to stir up the chimpanzees within, and it's Mr. LaBute's grim joke that just who the real animals are is not an easy call. In his scripts for films like ''In the Company of Men,'' as well as plays like the harrowing ''Bash,'' this highly accomplished artist of misanthropy has reveled in uncovering the feral snarl beneath the bland smiles of middle-class Americans. ''The Distance From Here,'' directed by Michael Greif and featuring the Oscar-winning actress Anna Paquin, focuses on a social underclass of born losers. And despite the best efforts of the intense young cast, there aren't many suprises within all the apathy and anger (1:45) The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Mondays and Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2:30 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $50 (Brantley).

+ ''ENGAGED.'' Everything looks decorous and refined in the Victorian world of ''Engaged.'' This being a play by W. S. Gilbert, the decorous and the refined provide a light cover for strategic lunacy. Everything looks delightful in the Theater for a New Audience production, directed by Doug Hughes; the problems lie almost everywhere else. The outcome is a heavy tramp through a play that needs to be an airy romp. Gilbert satirizes the gap between emotional proprieties and financial greed, and he parodies the English fad for the rustic. Marriages and engagements are made and unmade at top speed, and there are moments of antic madness. To be staged effectively, ''Engaged'' should be cut. Most important, it must be directed with musical lightness and speed. Here speeches turn into exposition, when every fiber of one's being calls out: ''No! This is supposed to sound as if the character is bursting into song'' (2:05). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Margo Jefferson).

''GUINEA PIG SOLO.'' The mesmerizing John Ortiz scales new heights of calisthenic despair in Brett C. Leonard's portrait of a harrowed veteran of the war in Iraq, trying to stay sane in New York City. As a lost man with a short fuse, Mr. Ortiz leaps and bounds like an anguished Douglas Fairbanks. The play is a latter-day reworking of ''Woyzeck,'' Georg Buchner's great fragmented drama from the 1830's. But people in Mr. Leonard's world talk a lot more than than Buchner's characters do. This is not an asset. No matter how frenetically delivered, the dialogue and especially the monologues feel cumbersomely overstated, like messages carved in stone. On the other hand, Ian Belton's staging and Mr. Ortiz's performance are both precise and exhaustingly energetic, with some resonant repeated images. A production of the LAByrinth Theater Company, which specializes in lives of desperation that are anything but quiet (2:10). Public Theater/Shiva Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $45 (Brantley).

*+ ''THE NORMAL HEART.'' This absorbing revival allows you to register some of the gale force with which Larry Kramer's benchmark play hit New York in 1985. In portraying the early impact of AIDS, Mr. Kramer lashed out at the institutions and individuals of power he felt had looked away from a crisis-in-the-making, including The New York Times and Mayor Edward I. Koch. Dramas that run high fevers of social outrage tend to cool off over time, of course. But there is nothing quaint about this production, directed by David Esbjornson and starring Raul Esparza as Ned Weeks, the truth-telling gay writer who is Mr. Kramer's alter ego. At its best, this production has the fraught urgency of a dispatch from a war zone. And it illuminates a poignant, quieter pattern of a longing to connect in a world that keeps building new walls among people (2:45). Public Theater/Anspacher Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Brantley).

Last Chance

* ''WELL.'' Lisa Kron made her reputation as a monologuist of wry, rueful wit and thorny eloquence. With this remarkable memory play about her mother, she has constructed a theatrical world that keeps interrupting and undermining the polished self-containment of the stand-up memoir. ''Well'' systematically dismantles the armor Ms. Kron wears as a performer, from her self-consciously self-conscious stage persona to her carefully barbed phrasing. To do so, it enlists a full-dress, expertly assembled production, directed by Leigh Silverman, and a cast that features the wonderful Jayne Houdyshell as Ms. Kron's mother, who eventually takes over the play. ''Well,'' Ms. Kron tells her audience, is about illness and racial integration, and it slyly finds the connection between such seemingly disparate subjects. And while accepting that it is impossible to know someone else completely, ''Well'' paradoxically leads you into believing that you know Ms. Kron's mother very well indeed. A play of remarkable generosity and humility (1:45). Public Theater/Martinson Hall, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $50 (Brantley).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Combs and Audra McDonald in ''A Raisin in the Sun.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 Anna Paquin and Josh Charles in ''The Distance From Here.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (52%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (57%); ANNA PAQUIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



299 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Optimistic Outlook

BYLINE: By Todd Zaun (NYT)

 BODY:
Japan's two-year recovery appears to be on solid ground as a result of government efforts to tackle some of the worst of the country's economic troubles, according to John B. Taylor, left, the under secretary for international affairs in the United States Treasury Department. ''We learned a lot about what we think is a more sustainable recovery than has existed for a long time in Japan,'' Mr. Taylor said after meeting government officials and economists in Tokyo on Thursday. He praised Japan's progress in dealing with deflation and bad bank loans. Mr. Taylor said he was optimistic that Japan's recovery would continue because of recent indications that consumer demand is picking up. Todd Zaun (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TRENDS (87%); DEFLATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Banks and Banking; Credit

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (57%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun; John B (Under Sec) Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



300 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: First Insiders Sold Their Shares Privately, Then Salesforce.com Filed to Go Public

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE right of investors to know when corporate insiders sell stock -- and at what price -- is a fundamental part of American securities law. When it turned out that Ken Lay, the former chairman of Enron, was using a loophole to sell shares secretly while he urged others to buy, Congress quickly changed the law.
 But one loophole still remains, and it is being used by Salesforce.com, a software company about to go public. 
 At first glance, this offering shows no selling of shares by insiders. But an investor who adds and compares numbers on different pages of the prospectus discovers that insiders have disposed of millions of shares since they bought them in 1999 and 2000. Were they sold years ago, or weeks ago? At what price? The prospectus has no answers. 
 When I asked Marc Benioff, the chief executive, what he did with the shares he used to own, he replied in an e-mail message that Securities and Exchange Commission rules barred him from talking. But no rules bar the company from amending its prospectus to give the facts.
 Salesforce.com leases software to corporate customers that lets them share data on their customers within different parts of the company. The customers get access to the software and their data through the Internet.
 The company spends little on research and development: 7 percent of revenue in the most recent year. It spends a lot more on marketing: 57 percent of revenue. The cost of actually providing its service to customers is only 18 percent of revenue. If it could ever slash marketing costs, it might be very profitable.
 When the company was founded in 1999, as the Internet bubble was expanding, the owners never thought they would have to wait this long to go public. In starting a company foundation, to which insiders have donated 221,030 shares, Salesforce.com gave it warrants whose terms assumed a successful public offering by early 2002 at the latest.
 Then the bubble burst and the rules changed. Suddenly investors wanted profits.
 Salesforce.com changed, too. In 2001 it walked away from a lease on expensive office space in San Francisco, recording a $7.7 million hit to earnings. In the fiscal year that began in February 2002, it cut back on advertising, but continued to hire salespeople. Mr. Benioff's salary for that year and the next was just $1, with no bonus or options.
 It worked. The company reported a $3.5 million profit in the year that ended this January, and it promptly filed to sell shares. That profit would have almost vanished had a recovering office market not allowed it to reverse part of that rental charge, and it would have vanished entirely had Mr. Benioff made a more normal salary. (The company does not say what he received before the bubble burst.) 
 But it was a profit, and with technology shares having recovered, the company hopes to get $7.50 to $8.50 a share, valuing it at as much as $868 million, or 10 times its revenue in the last year. Such a price would seem to assume continued rapid growth and the ability to sell to large companies that have so far resisted its salespeople.
 Given his $1 salary, one might think some stock sales by Mr. Benioff were necessary. A man does have to eat. But he has claimed he made more than $10 million as an early investor in Siebel Systems and more than that off options at Oracle, where he used to work. Even after deducting the $2.5 million he invested in Salesforce.com, that would seem to have left enough money to pay bills.
 If he sold shares, as opposed to giving them all away, that would indicate that he found the price attractive. But he won't say how many he sold, or when, or for how much.
 That information is clearly relevant. The S.E.C. should change its rules to make companies going public disclose the details of such insider selling.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc Benioff, the chief of Salesforce.com, did not say what he did with shares he once owned. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Chart:Shares purchased by Marc Benioff, chief executive of Salesforce.com: 36,538,725Shares owned now: 28,179,071(Source by Salesforce.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (84%); SALES FORCE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%) Insider Trading

COMPANY: SALESFORCE.COM INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Salesforce.com; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: CRM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MARC BENIOFF (90%) Floyd Norris; Marc Benioff

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



301 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: As Prices Rise, Russia Alters Oil Politics Toward U.S.

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Almost three years after the Sept. 11 attacks, America is still seeking sources of energy besides the Middle East, and Russia has plenty of oil to sell.
 But after numerous meetings and high-level talks, the once-promising United States-Russia energy dialogue is sputtering, say government officials and foreign and Russian energy companies.
 Worse, multinationals like Exxon Mobil are losing ground in developing promising oil and gas projects in Russia. In January, Exxon Mobil lost its license to a significant concession in the Sakhalin Islands in Russia's Far East that it had not yet developed. 
 What happened? The arrest of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the billionaire oil tycoon and founder of Yukos, was only the final blow. Before he was jailed, Mr. Khodorkovsky pushed for higher oil exports to the West and even pledged to build a pipeline to China, efforts that the Kremlin came to view as a threat to its power. [Mr. Khodorkovsky's latest plea to be released on bail was turned down this week by a Moscow City Court, the Reuters news agency said Wednesday.]
 But another factor looms: with global oil prices soaring, Russian producers are raking in profits, so the government no longer feels compelled to sell oil to America. [Crude oil for June delivery rose 31 cents, to $41.08 a barrel, in trading in New York on Thursday. ]
 A hoped-for pipeline from the Caspian Sea to Murmansk in far northern Russia, from which Russian oil companies could ship to the United States, will probably not be built. Instead, the Kremlin is negotiating to build a pipeline to Nakhodka, a port on the Sea of Japan, which will bring oil to East Asia; that project has $6 billion in financing promised from the Japanese government.
 The war in Iraq, meanwhile, has soured relations between the United States and Russia, which sided with France and Germany in opposing the conflict. 
 ''Something is definitely wrong with U.S.-Russia relations over the past three years, and the results of the energy dialogue are not impressive,'' says Timofei Bordachev, director of the Institute of Foreign and Defense Policies research group here.
 Peter Westin, an economist with Aton Bank, explained: ''The enthusiasm has waned, as high oil prices give Russia more leverage. Khodorkovsky also got his hands chopped off, and among many other things, that sends a signal to oil companies that they, too, should be careful.''
 In 2003, Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco declared their interest in buying into Russia's abundant oil reserves, and Total of France and the Royal Dutch/Shell Group have not been ruled out of the running, despite both companies' declarations to the contrary.
 But ever since BP's $6.15 billion deal for a stake in TNK, no other sizable deals have been signed between foreign and Russian oil majors.
 Russia's energy ministry is now revisiting some deals signed in the 1990's, like Exxon Mobil's Sakhalin-3 concession in the Sakhalin Islands off Japan in 1993. The ministry says that concession should be put out for new bidding. 
 ''I'm surprised there hasn't been more of an outcry,'' Glenn Waller, vice president for Russia at Exxon Mobil, said in an interview. The American Chamber of Commerce and the U.S.-Russia Business Council here have been writing letters of protest, he added. ''They see it as an issue of principle, not just an issue facing one or two companies.''
 No date has been set for a new tender of the concession. 
 But even Russian oil companies say the energy dialogue will be at a standstill unless more contacts develop between individual companies, even small- and medium-size energy concerns.
 ''The starter is there, but the engine's not running,'' Vagit Y. Alekperov, the founder of Lukoil, said in an interview in April. ''A lot happened at a high level, when German Gref and Don Evans were talking,'' he said, referring to Russia's economic development and trade minister and the American commerce secretary. ''They were the driving force. But this dialogue should not be only at the government level -- companies should continue it, and that's not happening.''
 Lukoil, which backed the suspended Murmansk pipeline, has emerged as one of the most aggressive sellers of oil to the United States. Last fall, it opened a chain of its red-and-white gas stations in the New York area, some of them bought from Getty in 2000.
 Still, Russia has largely abandoned production-sharing agreements with foreign oil companies, and record-high oil prices have offered Russia the luxury of not selling stakes in domestic majors.
 ''They've decided that given the improving economy, and higher ratings from bond agencies, that all of the former incentives they gave foreign companies to invest in Russia are no longer necessary,'' said A. Grant McCrea, partner in the litigation group of the law firm of Dewey Ballantine. Exxon Mobil will probably not be able to contest the lost license successfully in a Russian court, he added.
 ''I'd be surprised if there was an imminent foreign equity investment of a very large scale in the Russian oil business,'' said Robert Dudley, chief executive of TNK-BP, the product of one of the only successful mergers of Western and Russian oil concerns. BP took a stake in TNK in 2003 to acquire access to Russian oil. TNK-BP accounts for one of every five barrels of BP's output.
 On top of everything else, Kremlin politics have also altered the outlook for United States-Russia energy cooperation.
 Mr. Putin's landslide re-election in March gave him a mandate to shift gears: after spending his first term prodding growth in oil exports, Russia's president wants to tax the domestic oil sector heavily and diversify the economy away from energy.
 ''Putin's priority in his first term was establishing control over the country and rebuilding fiscal reserves,'' the chief strategist with Alfa Bank in Moscow, Christopher Weafer, said. ''The only way he could do that was pushing for recovery in oil production and exports. But that was only the first phase for the bigger picture. His agenda now is diversifying the economy.''
 ''Russia is good at playing the middle ground,'' he added. ''They played it with OPEC and oil prices and they played it with Russia-U.S. energy dialogue. It suited Putin's domestic agenda at the time. Now that's changed completely, and it suits him not to push ahead with investment in the oil sector.''
 Fiona Hill of the Brookings Institution in Washington concurs. ''Putin is reassessing his priorities,'' she said, ''and where he wants Russia to be on the global energy stage.''
 In the meantime, President Bush is likely to be consumed by his re-election campaign, which could delay any dialogue on energy.
 Still, American oil companies cannot afford to give up on Russian oil, said Julian Lee, an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London.
 ''Russia has become increasingly important for international oil companies generally,'' Mr. Lee said. ''It's one area of the world where oil producers believe there are still huge reserves left. And we're going to see companies trying to get hold of them in Russia one way or the other.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, on screen, and his lawyer, Anton Drel, during a hearing Wednesday in Moscow. Mr. Khodorkovsky, the billionaire oil tycoon and founder of Yukos, was again denied bail by the court. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); ARRESTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BAIL (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Investments; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Pipelines; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%); CHEVRON CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); CVX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: Erin E Arvedlund; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CASPIAN SEA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Caspian Sea; Murmansk (Russia); Nakhodka (Russia); Sea of Japan; Japan; Iraq; Germany; France

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



302 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4645 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

''ARCADIA AND METROPOLIS: MASTERWORKS OF GERMAN EXPRESSIONISM FROM THE NATIONALGALERIE BERLIN,'' Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, through June 7. In 1937 the Nazis seized a large collection of Expressionist works from the Kronprinzen Palace in Berlin, Germany's first museum of contemporary art. But this branch of Berlin's Nationalgalerie has made great strides in restoring what was the heart of its collection. This show of 40 works by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Emil Nolde, Max Beckmann, George Grosz, Otto Dix, Hannah Hoch, Paula Modersohn-Becker and others touches on the history of German modern art -- Expressionism, Dadaism, Neue Sachlichkeit -- from around 1910 through the post-World War I period. Its title is drawn from the early preference of the Expressionists for rural places versus their later attraction to the city. One of the show's great ''Metropolis'' paintings is Kirchner's large ''Potsdamer Platz'' (1914); in the ''Arcadia'' mode is Modersohn-Becker's ''Kneeling Mother With Child'' (1907). Satirical thrusts at the failures of the Weimar Republic by Hoch, Dix and Grosz are also standouts. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* ''BYZANTIUM: FAITH AND POWER (1261-1557),'' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through July 4. This vast and humblingly beautiful show about the waning centuries of the Byzantine empire reminds us that political decay does does not necessarily mean artistic decline. Full of amazing exotica -- manuscripts, miniature mosaics, textiles, drawings, paintings -- the exhibition ends with a room of great Northern Renaissance art indebted to icons that proves Byzantium's continued reach. People who are not Eastern Orthodox believers can enjoy the earthly pleasures of aesthetic spectacle linked with historical enlightenment. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $7 (Michael Kimmelman).

* ''AN ENDURING VISION: 17th- TO 20TH-CENTURY JAPANESE PAINTING FROM THE GITTER-YELEN COLLECTION,'' Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, through June 20. Six schools of Japanese art that flourished during the Edo period (1615-1868) and on into the 20th century -- Nanga, Zenga, Rinpa, Maruyama-Shijo, Ukiyo-e and the Eccentrics -- are celebrated with about 75 examples from an outstanding private collection. With screens, hanging scrolls, albums and fans depicting flora and fauna, the forces of nature, abstract mountainscapes, genre scenes and calligraphy, done by some of the era's best artists, the show provides a rich acquaintance with four centuries of Japanese art. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 65+, $3 (Glueck)

* ''FASHIONING FICTION IN PHOTOGRAPHY SINCE 1990,'' Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 33rd Road and Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9600, through June 28. With its first exhibition of fashion photography, the Modern dips a toe into a very large body of water, and dithers. The works by 13 artists and fashion photographers, including Cindy Sherman, Nan Goldin, Phillip-Lorca diCorcia and Cedric Buchet, focuses on the recent uses of narrative in both magazine features and advertising. How recent this development is could be debated, but mainly the Modern seems determined to make everything look like appropriation art. This seems unnecessary in a museum known for showing all kinds of everyday design objects. The show sticks too closely to the mainstream fashion press, which keeps it too superficial, too polite and in some ways misleading. Largely missing are the field's raunchy underbelly and cheap thrills: the intimations of heroin chic, grunge, homoeroticism and teenage sex that can make perusing a fashion magazine feel like a vaguely subversive act. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* ''MOMA AT EL MUSEO: LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN ART FROM THE COLLECTION OF THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART,'' El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272, through July 25. The first broad-scale exposure of the Modern's extensive holdings from Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America, the 150 or so objects here are a small selection from the more than 2,000 it owns. But they form an arresting show, from the powerful Surrealist-
influenced ''Jungle'' (1943) by the Cuban artist Wifredo Lam to an untitled 1995 sculpture by the Colombian Doris Salcedo that invokes the political violence in her country. The sardonic humor of Marisol (Venezuela) and Fernando Botero (Colombia); the geometric tweakings of Jesus Rafael Soto and Gertrude Goldschmidt (Venezuela); the Conceptual hatchings of Felix Gonzalez-Torres (Cuba) and Cildo Meireles (Brazil), among others, remind us of the artistic richness south of the border. This show joins the strength of the Modern's resources with the growing importance of El Museo as a showcase of Latino culture. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Thursdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $7; students and 65+, $5 (Glueck).

''NEXUS: TAIWAN IN QUEENS,'' Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows Corona Park, Queens, (718) 592-9700, through July 4. Twenty artists, all Taiwanese, are assembled for an exhibition about immigration, assimilation, isolation, cultural identity and related issues. Many works are straightforward illustrations of the theme: Lu Hsian Fu's installation of red paper Chinese lanterns threaded with strings of Christmas lights, for example, is about the immigrant's bicultural experience. Some works, like C. J. Yeh's cybernetic translations of Mondrian paintings, resonate more broadly. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission, $5 (Ken Johnson).

''OPEN HOUSE: WORKING IN BROOKLYN,'' Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, through Aug. 15. This all-Brooklyn show of new art has been timed to coincide with the inauguration of the museum's new front entrance pavilion and public plaza. With 300 pieces installed in the fourth- and fifth-floor galleries, and spilling over into the permanent collection galleries, it's a very crowded affair. It's also all over the place in terms of media, styles and themes, not to mention quality; the good, the bad and the iffy mingle. Still, there's plenty of good work by artists you know and by some you don't, drawn from across a borough that has many different art worlds. Also on view, though not part of the show, is Alexis Rockman's mural-size painting of Brooklyn 3,000 years in the future, submerged under water as a result of global warming. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

* ''ROTH TIME: A DIETER ROTH RETROSPECTIVE,'' Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400, and P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, through June 7. This exhaustive, exhausting but ultimately astounding exhibition offers total immersion in the art of the German-born, Swiss-based multimedia dynamo Dieter Roth (1930-1998), who not only erased the line between art and life, but also fused them into a single insoluble entity. With nearly 400 works of painting, drawing, prints, sculpture, assemblage, collage, music, poetry, film, photography, video and sound, and using every imaginable kind of found object or material -- foodstuffs included -- the exhibition moves through 50 years of incessant, obsessive art-making with remarkable clarity. It culminates in a presentation of five enormous installation pieces at the Modern's little-sister institution, P.S. 1, that reveal a seemingly boundless universe of artistic activity and a radically new picture of an artist at work. MoMA Queens hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $8.50. P.S. 1 hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $2 (Smith).

''STAGING THE ORIENT: VISIONS OF THE EAST AT LA SCALA AND THE METROPOLITAN OPERA,'' Dahesh Museum of Art, 580 Madison Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 759-0606, through May 30. For centuries opera was one of Europe's more popular theatrical forms. And while music was certainly a big part of its appeal, for many fans the real attraction lay in spectacular stage sets. These were often designed by leading academic painters and the results, set deep in the past and in places remote from Europe, were examples of how one culture -- Western in this case -- invents exotic, often demeaning visions of others. The Dahesh show considers such matters with the help of prints and drawings and some spectacular costumes worn by famous singers, past and present. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $9, students and 62+, $4. (Cotter).

* ''WHERE GODS AND MORTALS MEET: CONTINUITY AND RENEWAL IN URHOBO ART,'' Museum for African Art, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-7700, through Aug. 16. This engrossing show documents aspects of a so-called traditional African art as it existed in the recent past, and as it survives in a 21st-century world. Africa in this case means a society called the Urhobo of the Niger Delta, and the art ranges from spectacular larger than life-size figures of ancestor spirits to carvings of grotesque beasts with gaping, saber-toothed mouths, images meant to both encourage and control male aggression. Although some sculptures are now rarely produced in their original forms, they are in the paintings and prints of Bruce Onobrakpeya, a contemporary Delta-born artist of international stature, in whose art Urhobo traditions live on. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 to 5 p.m. Admission: $6; students and 65+, $3 (Cotter)

* WHITNEY BIENNIAL, Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, through May 30. Easily the best biennial in a long time. The spirit is upbeat and ingratiating -- almost polite -- on the surface at least, with a utopian streak and a youth-heavy emphasis on gloss and craft. There's plenty of painting and drawing, ratifying the much-hyped trend, and multigenerational work, stressing ecstatic engagement and meticulousness. But the real story is the stress on the handmade in general, on materiality in whatever medium -- a change from the politics-heavy, slacker installations of recent years. The cross-generational dialogue is an interesting subtext. Among the younger set utopia does not mean 1960's-style radicalism; it implies something unattainable, except perhaps in a hand-me-down form, and therefore smaller and inherently poignant. Look for a few standout works from artists both younger and older, including Yayoi Kusama, Alec Soth, Catherine Opie, Julie Mehretu, Jim Hodges, Eve Sussman, Raymond Pettibon, Slater Bradley, Robert Mangold and Stan Brakhage, who died last year. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 62+, $9.50 (Kimmelman).

* ''FRED WILSON, OBJECTS AND INSTALLATIONS: 1979-2000,'' Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, through July 4. Mr. Wilson, who represented the United States at the 2003 Venice Biennale, made his reputation with conceptually pointed, technically polished and visually engaging installations and objects that focused on excavating American racial history and illustrating the exclusionary power of cultural institutions shaped by social, economic and ideological domination. Elements of his subversive museum projects appear in this traveling show, along with sculptures and a fine, short new film. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; children under 12, $1 (Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

BRICE BROWN AND DON JOINT, ''A Marriage in Paint,'' Naumann, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 472-6800, through May 22. Painters who share a life as well as a studio, Mr. Brown and Mr. Joint nevertheless have distinctly disparate abstract styles. Mr. Joint's is one of exuberant high-key color laid down in hard-edge geometric and biomorphic shapes; Mr. Brown's looser brushwork and softer palette relate more to Abstract Expressionism. But subtle similarities might be discerned and the two have painted a collaborative canvas that comes off. Soft shapes and hard ones form a pleasant melding; wayward linear trackings play off precisely formed edges. The colors get along. But each is a persuasive painter in his own right (Glueck).

* JEFF KOONS, ''Highlights of 25 Years,'' C&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, through June 5. This excellent 27-piece survey touches on all phases of Mr. Koons's career, including greatest hits like the basketballs mysteriously hovering in aquarium tanks; the Mylar ''Rabbit'' balloon cast in shiny stainless steel; and the sexy blonde embracing the Pink Panther in glazed ceramic. The climax of the show is the 10-foot-tall ''Balloon Dog.'' Made of stainless steel and coated in coppery translucent orange, it is a breathtaking symbol of the inflationary euphoria and anxiety of our times (Johnson).

MARKUS LUPERTZ, ''About the Three Graces,'' Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623, through May 29. Mr. Lupertz, usually mentioned along with Georg Baselitz, Sigmar Polke and Anselm Kiefer as a German Neo-Expressionist star of the 1980's, here presents a quartet of massive heads cast in bronze. Tinted in primary colors, these boulderlike representations of the Three Graces, Hera, Venus and Athene, plus one of Paris, look as if they were gouged out of the earth and pummeled into shape by an impatient giant (Johnson)

JORGE PARDO, Lever House Lobby Gallery, 400 Park Avenue, between 53rd and 54th Streets, , through July 31. If Ikea sold sculptures, they might look like the ones Mr. Pardo installed in the lobby of this famous Modernist high-rise: squat wooden constructions resembling the skeletons of biomorphic chairs, with attractive colored glass lights nested like eggs in the depressions where you would sit. Curiously, the plywood elements that touch the floor have been cut into the silhouettes of animal feet: hooves, bear paws or tentacles (Johnson).

FRANK STELLA, ''Exotic Birds,'' Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313, through June 5. Looking at Mr. Stella's three big, splashily painted reliefs from a 1976 series, it is easy to forget how shockingly flamboyant they seemed in their day. Now, with their curvy, tilting forms cut from honeycomb-core aluminum panels, and neatly puzzled together within wide slanting frames, they seem prettily demure compared to what has happened since in painting as well as in sculpture (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

''ANIMALS AND US,'' Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734, through May 22. This menagerie of an exhibition offers many different species of animals viewed through many stylistic lenses. It includes Sue Coe's expressionistic anticruelty cartoons; William Wegman's comic photographic dog portraits; Frank Noelker's photographs of live animals in zoos; Hiroshi Sugimoto's eerie photographs of simulated animals in museum dioramas; and Rona Pondick's surrealist stainless steel dog, which has a human head and hands cast from life with a smooth and shiny canine body (Johnson).

* DAISY YOUNGBLOOD, McKee, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 688-5951, through May 29. Ms. Youngblood, who is in her late 50's and lives in Costa Rica, last year won a MacArthur award for her exquisitely sensitive, usually small ceramic sculptures of animals and human spiritual gurus. Here are 18 works dating from 1975 to 2003 in which the interest is mainly in the magical tension between the raw clay and the lifelike, psychologically evocative forms and gestures of animal and human bodies (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

LOUISE BELCOURT, ''Wriggling Philosophical Life,'' Jeff Bailey, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 989-0156, through May 29. Ms. Belcourt paints lovable, extremely simplified, sharply contoured pictures of what look like sunlit monumentalized sofa cushions under powder blue skies. Actually they are images of garden hedges in a small northern Quebec town where she grew up. With their attractively glossy, brush-textured surfaces they adroitly juggle the influences of Color Field painting, Pop and Surrealism (Johnson).

DELIA R. GONZALEZ AND GAVIN R. RUSSOM, ''Evolution Is Extinct,'' Daniel Reich, 537-A West 23rd Street, (917) 408-9097, through May 22. Suburban modernism meets Neo-Gothic grunge in this young team's crowded installation of bookcases, end tables and speaker cabinets, all painted black. Some elements have metal control panels for fine tuning the weird electronic sound effects that reverberate through the gallery. There are also sand sculptures shaped like office buildings; little totemic, sequin-covered coneheads with cowrie shells for eyes and mouths; and a short, low-budget semi-abstract horror movie (Johnson).

DONALD JUDD, ''Single Stacks 1964-69,'' Van de Weghe, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 929-6633, through May 28. The wall-mounted boxes featured here look like units from Judd's vertical ladderlike works. Different ones are made of shiny copper, stainless steel or galvanized steel; some have Plexiglas panels casting colored light on the walls below. The installation is elegant and funereal: the sculptures are like containers for the ashes of Modernism. Or they might be Pandora's boxes, from which the demonic energies of pluralism would soon emerge (Johnson).

JOHN MONTI, ''Fancy,'' Elizabeth Harris, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 463-9666, through May 27. Mr. Monti's sumptuously colored, intricately designed rubber reliefs in the form of stylized daisies riff on a kind of cheap, stick-on decoration that you may vaguely associate with the 1970's. Sculptural fusions of Pop and Minimalism that resemble giant clown lips -- the big orange one is called ''Tangerine Smile'' -- could be from a logo for a toy store or an ice cream vending chain (Johnson).

''ONE TO ONE,'' Chambers, 210 11th Avenue, near 24th Street, (212) 414-1169, through May 29. Eight Chinese artists who toy with formal and narrative conventions of photography, including gridded photographic diaries by Guan Shi and Lin Jingjing; animal silhouettes composed of hundreds of thumbtack-size portraits, by Bai Yiluo; Chi Peng's fantasies of naked young men pursued by red bird-size airplanes; and Yi Deer's images of himself in a gold costume emerging from a cornfield and a manhole (Johnson),

* PUSHPAMALA N., Bose Pacia Modern, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 989-7074, through May 15. Photography and moving pictures arrived in India immediately after their invention in Europe, which is one reason South Asia has long produced some of the most sophisticated work in both media. Pushpamala N., a contemporary artist working in Bangalore, takes account of that history and makes it her own in a New York solo debut that both sends up and pays homage to cinematic conventions. The show includes four photographic series in which the artist herself appears in various roles, playing them with a confounding mix of self-consciousness and conviction (Cotter).

ERIK SCHMIDT/NEAL ROCK, Henry Urbach, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-0974, through May 22. Mr. Schmidt, a Berlin painter, depicts corporate sterility in high-contrast, photo-derived images of spectral businessmen and office buildings. Crusty painterly surfaces call to mind stale cake frosting. The London-based Mr. Rock created ''Work From the Polari Range,'' an installation of sculptural reliefs, by squeezing colored silicone out of pastry bags. Suggesting reeflike accumulations of tropical submarine creatures, they are grotesque, seductive and comical (Johnson).

* WILLIAM SCOTT, Denise Bibro, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 647-7030, through June 5. Pots, dishes, fruits, vases and other domestic shapes form the basis for much of this Scottish-born painter's imagery, magically reduced to lyrical, luminous ghosts of themselves. Scott, a figure of some importance in postwar British art, was well known in New York, too. This small but engrossing show progresses from 1954 to 1977, and in his spare, sensual paintings shape, space and color play beautifully together (Glueck).

Galleries: SoHo

''DOGS + CATS,'' American Primitive, 594 Broadway, near Houston Street, (212) 966-1530, through June 12. This lively exhibition includes more than 60 feline or canine representations in two or three dimensions. Some are by self-taught artists. A big colorful painting by Jean Metcalf has cats and dogs in it but features a formal parade of rats carrying wounded birds on stretchers. Many are by unknown craftsmen, like the smoothly carved wooden head of a boxer with brown glass eyes and the functional dog-shaped bench in the form of a wooden slab with branches that have been turned into legs (Johnson).

JOHN KESSLER, ''Global Village Idiot,'' Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, (212) 343-7300, through June 5. Mr. Kessler's Rube Goldberg-style contraptions incorporating computers, video equipment, photographs, electric lights and motors reflect on terrorism, airplane safety, fashion, pornography and media saturation. Their ingenious workings are absorbing to study, but unlike the beautifully made mechanized sculptures for which he became known in the 1980's and 90's, these have a raw, unfinished look, as if they had been built in the secret basement workshop of an angry and paranoid electrical engineer (Johnson).

VINCENT LAMOUROUX, Spencer Brownstone, 39 Wooster Street, (212) 334-3455, through May 22. For his first New York solo exhibition, this young French artist has filled the gallery with a sloping undulating plywood floor. Negotiating its creaking dips and mounds is like walking on an uneven hillside outdoors or traversing an amusement park funhouse. It updates Carl Andre's Minimalist carpets, and it might be a metaphor about the instability of modern experience (Johnson).

* ''OCEAN FLOWERS: IMPRESSIONS FROM NATURE,'' Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, through May 22. Dense with ethereal images and silhouettes of seaweed, this unusual exhibition shows how the needs of Victorian botanists, book publishers and inspired amateurs pushed traditional drawing and printmaking into the realm of photography without so much as touching a lens. (Smith).

Other Galleries

''THE DEVONSHIRE INHERITANCE: FIVE CENTURIES OF COLLECTING AT CHATSWORTH,'' Bard Graduate Center, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, through June 20. The stately English country home Chatsworth has been occupied since its construction in 1552 by the Cavendish family, headed by a long succession of dukes and duchesses of Devonshire. They have enriched it with notable collections of fine and decorative arts, an awesome library of books and manuscripts, scientific instruments, silver, furniture and needlework. A glimpse of these treasures is provided by this show, which has works by Rembrandt, Raphael, Titian, Durer and Lucian Freud; books and drawings by Andrea Palladio; a spectacular jewelry ensemble worn at the coronation of Czar Alexander II and much else to light up the eyes of the most jaded connoisseur. The next step is a visit to Chatsworth itself, still a private home for the Cavendishes but very much open to the public (Glueck).

MIN KIM, ATM Gallery, 170 Avenue B, near 10th Street, East Village, (212) 375-0349, through May 23. Ms. Kim's finely made paint-and-ink work amounts to a a kind of child's vision of Eden. A nude, doe-eyed prepubescent girl meets a boy, almost her twin, in a garden dominated by a glitter-producing tree; their story of Paradise Found comes to an ambiguous conclusion in a Chinese-style landscape overhung with tangle of snaking black lines. Ms. Kim's application of cartoon-style sweetness to an adult-style morality tale is common in new art and can easily be arch or sappy. She makes it work by presenting innocence more or less straight: threatened from without, unblemished from within (Cotter).

''TACTICAL ACTION,'' Gigantic Artspace, 59 Franklin Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-6762, through June 10. This lively but crowded and unfocused exhibition is designed to promote leftish dissidence. Highlights include scenes of the war in Iraq, drawn on location by Steve Mumford; clever anticorporate lenticular photographs by David Byrne and Danielle Spencer; David Krippendorff's noirish video about the eroticism of hate; Michele Pred's American flag sculpture, made from pen knives confiscated at airports; and a mock prison visitors' booth, with a soundtrack about teenage gang violence, by Dread Scott (Johnson).

Last Chance

* ''DRAWING OUT THE VOID,'' Vestry Arts, 15 Gramercy Park South, (212) 995-1774, through tomorrow. This excellent show of drawings in a beautiful new gallery brings together two famous Surrealists, now dead, and two living contemporary Neo-Surrealists. Hans Bellmer's Freudian amalgamations of body parts drawn in elegantly spidery lines, Pavel Tchelitchew's glowing pictures of a giant eye and heads seemingly made of neon tubing, Steve DiBenedetto's colored-pencil visions of octopuses, Ferris wheels and helicopters, and Peter Schoolwerth's diagrammatic Pop-Surrealist narratives prove that drawing is still an excellent way to explore the weirdness of modern experience (Johnson).

* LES KRIMS, ''Fact or Fiction,'' Laurence Miller, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930, through tomorrow. In the 1970's feminists hated Mr. Krims's staged pictures of naked women in absurd and humiliating situations. Today, these small prints from the late 1960's and early 70's are striking for their psychological urgency and mold-breaking inventiveness. His famous picture of a screaming legless man on a small table in a windowed alcove remains an image of frightening intensity. His mother seated naked in her dimly lighted living room is an image of heartbreaking vulnerability (Johnson).

* ''SINGULAR FORMS (SOMETIMES REPEATED): ART FROM 1951 TO THE PRESENT,'' Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, through Wednesday. A lavish, mostly in-house display of Minimal art and its progeny. Along with the requisite examples by standard-bearers (Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Robert Ryman) and a few by predecessors (Robert Rauschenberg, Ad Reinhardt), it features post-1960's works by a range of artists including Gerhard Richter, Charles Ray, Robert Gober, Liam Gillick, Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread and Damien Hirst. Ultimately, Minimalism doesn't describe everything here. The show is a hodgepodge. But it's a stimulating hodgepodge, and it looks great in Wright's building. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Fridays until 8 p.m. Admission: $15; students and 65+, $10 (Kimmelman).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tilting forms: Flamboyant painted reliefs from a 1976 series by Frank Stella in ''Exotic Birds,'' an exhibition at the Gagosian Gallery uptown. (Photo by Robert McKeever/Gagosian Gallery)
 A hanging scroll in ''An Enduring Vision'' at the Japan Society. (Photo by Gitter-Yelen Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); WORLD WAR I (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



303 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Bush's Job-Approval Ratings Sinking

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 13 

 BODY:
As President Bush was traveling through the Midwest on his exuberant bus tour last week, his campaign aides still sounded confident that the revelations of how Iraqi prisoners were abused would do far more harm to the United States' image abroad than to the president's standing at home.
 But only a week later, at the very moment Mr. Bush's aides had hoped to be basking in the glow of improving economic numbers, months of setbacks in Iraq are clearly taking their toll.
 Mr. Bush's job-approval numbers have sunk to all-time lows, with a majority of Americans now saying, for the first time, that the invasion of Iraq was not worth the mounting cost. At the same time, they give the president far higher marks for his execution of the battle against terrorists, even though he has argued that they are all part of one war. 
 Congress, including prominent conservatives, has grown so restive about the wisdom of Mr. Bush's strategy that on Thursday the deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, had to retreat from a Senate hearing when members of both parties demanded far more specifics than he could provide about plans for spending the $25 billion the president is seeking to pursue the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 And for the first time, even some of the most loyal administration aides, who have regularly defended every twist in the Iraq strategy, are conceding that the president and his top advisers are stuck in what one of them called ''the perpetual debate'' about whether to change strategy or soldier on. Mr. Bush's usually sunny campaign advisers make no effort to hide the depth of the problem.
 ''Look, obviously events and the coverage and what's reported are going to have an effect on how people see the direction of the country,'' said Matthew Dowd, the chief strategist for Bush-Cheney '04. ''In the last two months or three months, there hasn't been a wealth of positive news. It was bound to have an effect, and we expected that.''
 But Mr. Dowd said that changing Mr. Bush's tone on the campaign trail was not an option. So with some modifications, Mr. Bush is following the script he and his chief political adviser, Karl Rove, drafted as the prisoner scandal emerged: He repeats his disgust with the abuses, then turns the subject immediately back to his broader goals in the war on terrorism, merging it with the action in Iraq. He did so again on Thursday in a West Virginia school gymnasium. 
 ''We're being tested,'' Mr. Bush said. ''People are testing our mettle. And I will not yield to the whims of the few.''
 After vigorous applause, he added, ''I won't yield because I believe so strongly in what we're doing, and I have faith in the power of freedom to spread its wings in parts of the world that desperately need freedom.''
 Several of Mr. Bush's advisers have said in recent weeks that they believe the bigger mistake for the president would be to show any weakness, or to yield even to those in his own party who may not want to cut and run, but may be interested in moving quickly to the exits after June 30. 
 And so far, he is under relatively little pressure from his Democratic opponent in the presidential race, Senator John Kerry, to make a major course correction. Mr. Kerry called months ago for greater United Nations participation; for the last few months, Mr. Bush has done the same. And while Mr. Kerry harshly criticized the president on the prison scandal on Wednesday, he has said that a withdrawal from Iraq would be disastrous, and on Thursday he even endorsed, without qualification, Mr. Bush's request for the $25 billion in additional financing.
 ''The situation in Iraq has deteriorated far beyond what the administration anticipated,'' Mr. Kerry said in a statement meant to pre-empt any questions about whether he would hedge his support for the additional money, as he did on a larger request last year. ''This money is urgently needed, and it is completely focused on the needs of our troops. We must give our troops the equipment and support to carry out their missions in Iraq and Afghanistan.'' 
 Mr. Bush's advisers say they have been surprised that their own candidate's decline in the polls has not resulted in an equivalent boost for Mr. Kerry. But several members of Mr. Bush's foreign policy team noted Mr. Kerry's new line of attack on Wednesday, when he said that Mr. Bush's aides ''dismiss the Geneva Conventions, starting in Afghanistan and Guantanamo, so that the status of prisoners both legal and moral becomes ambiguous at best.''
 Some Republicans close to Mr. Bush's campaign are concerned that Mr. Kerry's comments are the beginning of a new effort to fuel the notion that Mr. Bush's take-no-prisoners attitude created the conditions that allowed prisoner abuses to flourish. 
 ''No one in the White House knows if that argument will stick,'' said one conservative who met with Mr. Bush's aides this week. ''Clearly, it worries them. And it should.''
 Asked about the state of the presidential race on Thursday as he flew back to Washington from Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Kerry was upbeat. Saying there was much work yet to be done, he added, ''I'd rather be where we are, growing, than where they are.'' 
 The polls out this week found Mr. Bush, by some measures, at the lowest point of his presidency. Only 46 percent of Americans told the Gallup Poll they approved of the way Mr. Bush was handling his job, and a majority, 51 percent, said they disapproved. Other polls had similar results. A poll by the Pew Research Center found that 44 percent of Americans approved of the president's handling of his job and 48 percent disapproved.
 Those numbers alarm many of Mr. Bush's supporters, but Mr. Dowd said: ''I always counsel people when we are ahead and behind that since this country is very divided, this thing is always going to be played by the 45-yard lines. And we are still in that place.''
 Perhaps most alarming for Mr. Bush is the public's assessment that things in the United States are not going particularly well, with only 33 percent of the respondents in the Pew poll saying they were satisfied with the way things were going in the country and 61 percent saying they were dissatisfied.
 All this comes at a time when the public's support for the war in Iraq is rapidly fading. For the first time since the war began, a majority of respondents in the Gallup poll, 54 percent, said it was not worth going to war in Iraq; 44 percent said it was worth it.
 Only 41 percent said they approved of the way Mr. Bush was handling the situation in Iraq, while nearly 6 in 10, or 58 percent, said they disapproved.
 Still, despite the failure to find unconventional weapons and the failure to anticipate the rising insurgency, a majority said it was not a mistake to send troops to Iraq in the first place, a critical argument in Mr. Bush's stump speech.
 The polls were taken before the beheading of Nicholas E. Berg was made public. The Gallup poll of 1,003 adults was conducted May 7-9; the Pew, of 1,800 adults, was conducted May 3-9. Each poll was conducted nationwide by telephone and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''People are testing our mettle,'' President Bush said yesterday in a speech in Parkersburg, W.Va. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%) Public Opinion; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



304 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Allows City to Refinance Debt From 70's Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Michelle York, in Rochester, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 13 

 BODY:
The state's highest court on Thursday upheld New York City's plan to refinance the remainder of its debt from the 1970's fiscal crisis, rebuffing the Pataki administration's nine-month battle to kill the plan. The refinancing would provide the city with $500 million a year to balance its budget over the next five years.
 The refinancing plan would spread the debt over the next 30 years. The state would then be responsible for paying it off, at a cost of $170 million a year. 
 In a 6-to-0 ruling, the state's Court of Appeals offered what appeared to be the last words on the bruising battle over the debt plan, which pitted the governor, George E. Pataki, against Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a fellow Republican.
 Mr. Pataki tried to kill the proposal last year as part of his veto of the state budget. But that veto was overridden, overwhelmingly, by the State Legislature. That led Mr. Pataki to take the dispute to the courts, which have sided with the city every step of the way.
 In rejecting the state's three constitutional challenges, the Court of Appeals ruled that the legislation was legal, clearing the way for the city to create a bond-issuing corporation to borrow $2.5 billion to pay off the last five years of debt initially incurred when Abraham D. Beame was mayor.
 As a practical matter, the decision means that the city can expect to save the $1 billion in debt payments that it is counting on to balance the budget in the fiscal year that begins July 1 -- an amount nearly equal to the Fire Department's annual budget. That $1 billion would represent two years of savings from the bond refinancing.
 ''Today, the Court of Appeals has ruled in favor of the people of New York City,'' Mayor Bloomberg said in a statement. ''Today's decision allows us to move forward with the bond sale expeditiously.''
 Still, the convoluted nature of the plan troubled some financial analysts and the governor. On Thursday, they continued to warn that the plan would break the cardinal rule of municipal budgets by forcing future generations of taxpayers to pay for services received by the last generation -- paying off the debt of the 1970's until 2034.
 ''It's over-expensive and it's inequitable,'' said Charles Brecher, the director of research for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group backed primarily by businesses. ''It's going to take 60 years to pay off debt from the 1970's.''
 For his part, Mr. Pataki, at an appearance in downtown Rochester, said the plan was ''wrong.'' Taxpayers statewide, he added, would now share in bailing out the city for its past debt, a cost estimated to be more than $5 billion in total.
 In his remarks, Mr. Pataki curiously singled out the Assembly for criticism of the proposal, even though the Republican-led Senate helped to write it and fought for it.
 But Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly, who was at the same event, said separately that Albany had helped to provide financial assistance to many parts of the state in the past, including Nassau County and Buffalo, and said New York City drives the state's economy.
 ''There are those like the governor who would seek to divide the state, but we are one state,'' said Mr. Silver, a Democrat. ''We came together in a bipartisan fashion to do what is right for the residents of the state and the governor is still smarting from that defeat he had last year.''
 John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican and the State Senatemajority leader, applauded the decision but held out the possibility of changing the deal. ''What the court said is this kind of a bonding mechanism is legal,'' he said. ''It did not weigh in on how we did it, over 30 years, 20 years or 10 years.''
 In the decision, the six judges, three of whom were appointed by Mr. Pataki, were careful only to rule only the legal validity of the plan, not its fiscal prudence.
 ''The wisdom of this legislation is not a matter for this court to address,'' Judge George Bundy Smith wrote in the 31-page decision. ''As to its legality, we conclude that the act does not violate the state or federal Constitution.''
 The city, in dire fiscal straits, originally asked the state to re-impose the city commuter tax, which would have produced an estimated half billion dollars a year in revenue. But Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bruno balked at that suggestion.
 So the Legislature agreed to the debt refinancing.
 Under the plan, the state would assume the city's remaining $500 million yearly payments on its Municipal Assistance Corporation - or ''Big MAC'' -- bonds, which were due through 2008. But rather than pay directly, the state gave the city permission to create a corporation to issue new debt while a little-known state corporation called the Local Government Assistance Corporation, would pay the city $170 million a year to pay off the new debt.
 It was that corporation, which gets its money from state sales taxes and is controlled by the governor (two of the board's three members are appointed by Mr. Pataki; the other one is Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller) that first moved to kill the deal.
 When asked if the state would appeal to the United States Supreme Court, Michael Marr, a State Division of the Budget spokesman, said lawyers are reviewing the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPEALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Decisions and Verdicts; Finances; Government Bonds

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



305 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: 'Swing' Town Struggling With Choices

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: WEBSTER GROVES, Mo. 

 BODY:
Like many people in this homey, Republican-leaning, affluent suburb of St. Louis, Sharyl Groves is already wrestling with whom to support in this year's presidential election. 
 She describes herself as disappointed with President Bush, whom she voted for in 2000, concerned about the sluggish economy and convinced that the administration has been dishonest about the conflict in Iraq. The problem is, she admits, she has no real sense of Senator John Kerry, the probable Democratic challenger, despite the recent spate of advertising that has started here.
 ''Uh, it's terrible, I'm completely undecided!'' said Ms. Groves, 37, an executive assistant, stopping in her red convertible at a drive-through bank machine here. ''I'm not quite mad enough to say I wouldn't vote for Bush. But Kerry just hasn't made enough of an impression for me to say he's the one. I don't know where he stands on issues. He hasn't made a negative impression, he's made no impression at all.'' 
 Places like this ''swing'' town of quaint churches and ice cream shops will probably decide the election. Minds are still open here and many voters, like Ms. Groves, are struggling with the choice -- between the candidate they know, Mr. Bush, and the one they don't, Mr. Kerry; between the urge to rally behind a leader in wartime and a desire for change; between sadness over American lives lost in a conflict far away and anger over abortion here at home, an issue deeply felt in this land of churches, chapels and seminaries. Most important, from the Kerry campaign, they are waiting for more information on a challenger they feel they do not know.
 ''I voted for Bush last time because he was against abortion, but now he's got this country in a total mess,'' said Jean Mayer, a retiree, who was walking in Jefferson Barracks Park, site of a Civil War Army base, which now houses the Missouri National Guard. ''He's killing boys in the military and losing jobs. Truthfully, I don't know what I'll do this year, since Kerry is for abortion and I don't think I can vote for him, though I don't know too much else about him.'' 
 Webster Groves's indecision and desire to know more reflect national trends that hold ominous implications for Mr. Bush. A majority of Americans now say they believe the country is heading in the wrong direction, and this week a new Pew Poll found that ''public satisfaction with national conditions'' had fallen to an eight-year low of 33 percent. More than 60 percent in some other polls disapprove of Mr. Bush's handling of the war in Iraq and the economy. Photos showing American troops abusing Iraqi prisoners have only added to the disillusionment. 
 So far the Kerry campaign does not seem to have gathered much steam from this wellspring of bad news. Polls show that if the election were held today the two candidates would be running nearly neck and neck. The new Pew survey, which has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, put Kerry ahead by only 46 percent to 43 percent, with the remainder going to Ralph Nader.
 Voters' growing disapproval of administration policies is an early warning sign that the incumbent may be in deep trouble, experts say. In June 1980, President Jimmy Carter had an approval rating of only 33 percent, but polls still showed him in a statistical dead heat with Ronald Reagan. In 1992, when President George Bush's approval rating was 38 percent, he was still neck and neck with challenger Bill Clinton in early summer. Both incumbents lost by large numbers.
 ''The presidential voting decision is a two-step process,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for People and the Press, which conducted the poll. ''First, people decide if they think the incumbent is suited for re-election. Then later, they look to see if the new guy deserves the job.'' 
 He added that indecision was normal at this point in the campaign, because Americans who did not follow the Democratic primaries had not tuned into the race yet. Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, said that one-quarter to one-third of the American public did not even know who Mr. Kerry was.
 Thomas Cunningham, 55, a lawyer here, said, ''It's hard to get engaged until there's an honest candidate and a real slate.''
 Voters are waiting to be wooed, a task that almost all say the Kerry campaign has not really started yet. ''My vote is there to be won,'' said Damon Femmer, 49, an architect who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 but said he was dissatisfied with him because of a war he had come to see as dishonest and pointless. 
 ''I'm still unsure about Kerry, who he is and what he stands for,'' Mr. Femmer said. ''He does seem to vacillate a bit. But I'm waiting for more advertising, and the conventions, and I'll really have to do some research, to figure out what he's about.''
 Kerry aides acknowledge that he lacks exposure in parts of the country, but note that it is still early in the campaign season and that they are starting to address the problem with sweeping new advertising campaigns. ''It's fairly typical at this stage that people don't know who he is,'' said Stephanie Cutter, communications director, adding, ''We don't feel like he's well enough known, and that's why we've begun this process and will continue up to the convention.'' 
 New York is expected to go to Mr. Kerry, Wyoming to Mr. Bush. But by all accounts Missouri is up for grabs. Voters here do not register with a political party, and many people say they vote on both sides of the fence. Webster Groves split almost exactly 50-50 between Mr. Bush and Al Gore in the 2000 election. It is represented by Representative Richard A. Gephardt, a Democrat who had his own presidential ambitions this year, but its state senator and state representative are both Republican. 
 This is a Mayberry-with-money kind of place, dotted with flags and cafes. Children, many in parochial school uniforms, wander the streets freely after school. Firefighters collect money at intersections for burn victims. It is a place where people tend to believe in God and country, and are loath to desert a sitting president as he battles terrorism. 
 ''Whatever I think, I don't believe you change presidents in the middle of a war,'' said Solomon Noguera, a family doctor. ''That would lose lives and information.'' Mr. Noguera and his wife, Marvena, said they had voted with both parties in the past and ''always try to look at the candidates' morality.''
 But others are seething. Helen Moody, a Republican elections judge who was drinking iced tea outside of TJ Muggs Restaurant, said she has had it with the party she served for so long. ''I'm sure President Bush is a nice man, but the party has been taken hostage by the religious right and he really hasn't a clue,'' Ms. Moody said. ''So now I'm 'anyone but Bush.'''
 Still, she remains uneasy about Mr. Kerry. ''He hasn't made me feel like he has a decisive plan of action,'' she said. ''My husband feels that he knows what he's doing and is a man of ethics. But I don't know. I'm not there yet.''
 Jim Grunzinger, who was running in Jefferson Barracks Park, complained about the situation in Iraq and the ballooning deficit, and said that while he did not vote in 2000, he would this year. ''John Kerry doesn't impress me much, but I think we definitely need a change,'' said Mr. Grunzinger, a bakery owner. 
 Mr. Kohut, the political scientist, noted that Mr. Kerry will get plenty of airtime at the Democratic Convention in July, which could begin to answer some questions that voters have about him. ''I don't think he's in a bad place right now,'' Mr. Kohut said. ''He doesn't have the pizzazz of Bill Clinton. If the American people are really disgruntled with the incumbent, that may not matter. After all, we elected Nixon twice and he was hardly a crowd charmer.''
 When John Kerry takes to the podium at the convention, the swing voters of Webster Groves will be watching carefully.
 ''I think I'm more likely to vote for George Bush again because I've become more pro-life and that's a hot button issue for me,'' said Dana Stewart, an artist with two children. ''But Bush scares me. His lack of environmental concern scares me. And as more information about Iraq comes out, that scares me, too. So I'll listen to Kerry and my vote could go either way.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen Moody, at right in left photograph, finds herself in the category ''anyone but Bush.'' Jim Grunzinger also saw a need for change. Others were still wrestling with the decision.
 Dana Stewart, with her dog Booley, said her vote for president ''could go either way.'' (Photographs by Tim Parker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TRENDS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ICE CREAM (70%); ARMIES (70%); ABORTION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LAYOFFS (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Elisabeth Rosenthal; Andrew Kohut; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Andrew Kohut

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%) MISSOURI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) Webster Groves (Mo); Missouri

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



306 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1; FILM REVIEW

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Greeks Bearing Immortality

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

DATELINE: CANNES, France 

 BODY:
THIS war will never be forgotten. Nor will the heroes who fight in it.'' This line of dialogue expresses a thought that recurs frequently, with various inflections and in the mouths of various heroes, over the nearly two and a half hours of Wolfgang Petersen's ''Troy,'' which had its world premiere here last night and opens nationwide in the United States today. In one sense, it is less a prophecy than a statement of the obvious, since the names of Achilles, Hector, Odysseus and the rest have endured for 3,000 years. At the same time, though, the endless talk of immortality seems to express the picture's anxious, naive ambition, which is to rise above the welter of summer blockbusters and ascend into the pantheon of movie classics. 
 This is most unlikely. ''Troy,'' which cost something approaching the gross national product of modern Greece, will be lucky to survive the arrival of ''Shrek 2'' on Wednesday. But for what it is -- a big, expensive, occasionally campy action movie full of well-known actors speaking in well-rounded accents -- ''Troy'' is not bad. It has the blocky, earnest integrity of a classic comic book, and it labors to respect the strangeness and grandeur of its classical sources. Some moments may make you rue the existence of cinema, or at least of movies with sound, since the dialogue often competes with James Horner's score for puffed-up obviousness. But there are others -- crisply edited combat sequences, tableaus of antique splendor, a hugely muscled Brad Pitt modeling the latest in Hellenic leisure wear -- that remind you why you like movies in the first place.
 From its opening scenes, ''Troy,'' freely adapted by David Benioff from ''The Iliad'' and other sources, plunges you into a world shaped by complex codes of honor, loyalty and military virtue. Or, rather, it plunges you into a world where people talk about such things incessantly, and where every speech is punctuated by booming timpani and the ululations of an apparently tongueless female singer, her inarticulate moans announcing that this is not just a movie but an epic. Still, for once there really is a solid epic architecture underneath all the pageantry, and not just a very long movie set in the distant past.
 Mr. Benioff's script, for all its line-by-line infelicities, shows a real fascination with Homer's great characters, and with the nexus of divided loyalties and competing ambitions that led to so much death and destruction. Unlike movies that take war as a simple contest of good and evil, ''Troy'' remains faithful to Homer (and to human nature) by understanding war as a political event, with plenty of viciousness and virtue to go around. Like his screenplay for Spike Lee's ''25th Hour'' (based on his own novel), ''Troy'' is fundamentally a story about treachery and brotherhood -- about the fallibility and fragile nobility of men.
 In other words, it was not all Helen's fault. Helen, played by Diane Kruger, a German model, is perfectly lovely, and it is easy to see why she prefers the boyish Paris (Orlando Bloom) to grouchy Menelaus (Brendan Gleeson), the ruler of Sparta. But their puppyish romance is the trivial pretext for the war rather than its true cause. Menelaus's jealousy is exploited by his brother Agamemnon (Brian Cox), who uses the insult to further his imperial ambitions. His chief weapon is the sullen Achilles (Mr. Pitt), who in an early scene strolls out of his love tent, like a petulant movie star summoned from his trailer, to dispatch an enormous Thessalonian warrior with a single stroke of the sword.
 Achilles' temperament -- a volatile mixture of vanity, cynicism and sentimentality -- is the key to the movie, and Mr. Pitt attacks the role with the same vigor and agility the character demonstrates in combat. Yes, his accent sounds a bit like Madonna's, perhaps in deference to the mostly English and Australian actors who make up most of the cast, but for once he does not seem embarrassed by his charisma, or driven to subvert it with actorish tics. Achilles' narcissism is like that of a modern celebrity: he fights because it will bring him fame, not to serve the gods or the glory of the Greek nation or, least of all, his corrupt king. His true loyalty is to individuals -- his beloved cousin Patroclus (Garrett Hedlund), his ruthless Myrmidons and his love interest, the captured Trojan priestess Briseis (Rose Byrne) -- rather than to causes.
 His Trojan counterpart is Paris's brother, Hector (Eric Bana), who is constrained by the bonds of kinship, duty and patriotism that Achilles disdains. If Achilles is a kind of existentialist rock star, Hector is a stoical family man, protective of his wayward brother, respectful of his father, Priam (Peter O'Toole), and devoted to his wife, Andromache (Saffron Burrows) and their infant son. The events leading up to Hector's duel with Achilles -- a tempest of failure, deceit and unappeasable emotion -- are the beating heart of Homer's poem, and the filmmakers approach them with respectful sobriety, even going so far as to lower the volume on Mr. Horner's music. Mr. Bana, after his tentative superhero turn in ''The Hulk,'' shows more confidence here. His brooding, bearded countenance plays against Mr. Pitt's gleaming blondness, and the visual contrast emphasizes the differences between the characters.
 Meanwhile, you can savor a generational contrast in acting styles whenever Mr. Cox or Mr. O'Toole appears onscreen. Mr. O'Toole, frail and pale-eyed, quavers and whispers his way through the movie with regal panache, and with that sly knack, common among British actors of a certain age, for seeming utterly aloof from the movie and at the same time utterly committed to it. Mr. Cox, for his part, never misses an opportunity to toss his impressive hair extensions and bellow like a beast of prey. If Odysseus hadn't thought up the Trojan Horse, this Agamemnon would have chewed through the walls of Troy all by himself.
 Whether ''Troy'' will spur a revival of Hollywood interest in ancient literature remains to be seen, but the Greek and Roman canon is full of franchise potential, since it consists mainly of sequels, prequels and spin-offs. Some are signaled near the end of Mr. Petersen's film as the Greeks overrun the city. (What's your name, kid? Aeneas? Here, take this sword and go found another city somewhere else. Penelope? Yeah, it's Odysseus. Yeah. Bad connection. Listen, I'll be home soon. Who were you just talking to?) One notable sequel, however, has been foreclosed, by a killing that is certainly merited but that will nonetheless be surprising to scholars. I won't spoil it, but if I were Aeschylus, I'd call my agent.
 ''Troy'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for intense violence and brief nudity.

TROY

Directed by Wolfgang Petersen; written by David Benioff, inspired by Homer's ''Iliad''; director of photography, Roger Pratt; edited by Peter Honess; music by James Horner; production designer, Nigel Phelps; produced by Mr. Petersen, Diana Rathbun and Colin Wilson; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 140 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Brad Pitt (Achilles), Eric Bana (Hector), Orlando Bloom (Paris), Diane Kruger (Helen), Brian Cox (Agamemnon), Sean Bean (Odysseus), Brendan Gleeson (Menelaus), Peter O'Toole (Priam), Garrett Hedlund (Patroclus), Rose Byrne (Briseis), Saffron Burrows (Andromache).


CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A film review of ''Troy'' in Weekend on Friday misstated the site of its world premiere. It was Berlin; Cannes was the site of the French premiere. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FESTIVALS (60%) Motion Pictures; Reviews; Cannes International Film Festival

PERSON: BRAD PITT (53%) A O Scott; Wolfgang Petersen; Brad Pitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



307 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: The Once and (Probably) Future First Family of India

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 13 

 BODY:
When the cameras caught up to Rahul Gandhi in his rural constituency on Thursday, Mr. Gandhi, the descendant of three Indian prime ministers -- and possibly soon a fourth -- could barely contain his dimpled grin. It was a good day to be the latest star of the Nehru-Gandhi family dynasty.
 Written off as calcified, out-of-touch, visionless and nepotistic, that dynasty is poised once again to lead the world's most populous democracy. 
 On Thursday, the Indian National Congress, which the family has controlled in fact or in spirit since before independence, emerged from elections as the largest party in Parliament. 
 If agreement with Congress Party allies can be reached over the weekend, Mr. Gandhi's mother, Sonia Gandhi, 57, will become India's next prime minister, following her late husband, Rajiv Gandhi, who led India for five years in the late 1980's. 
 He, in turn, had followed his mother, Indira Gandhi, who served as prime minister for 16 years.
 And she had followed her father, Jawaharlal Nehru, who was India's prime minister for its first 17 years after independence, and a key architect of its quasi-socialist economy, its constitutional democracy and its secular foundations. 
 In the 1930's his father, Motilal Nehru, a successful lawyer, was president of the Congress Party, which traces its roots to 1885.
 The family's almost uninterrupted dominance over more than half a century of Indian politics broke down over the last 15 years, and ended in 1996. 
 But throughout its reign, the family acquired an aura that mixes the right-to-rule of the British royals, the tragedy of the American Kennedys -- complete with the assassinations of both Indira and Rajiv Gandhi -- and traditional South Asian respect for family and public sacrifice.
 In truth, India's election results seem less a Congress victory than a defeat of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, in which the traditionally anti-incumbent Indian voters roundly turned against their governing coalition.
 Nor is there evidence Nehru ever envisioned a dynasty. 
 ''It was Indira Gandhi who created the dynasty,'' an Indian historian, Ramachandra Guha, wrote in a recent essay in The Telegraph. ''She brought her sons into the Congress, and made it clear to all, within and outside the party, that she expected them to succeed her.'' 
 Less than five years after joining the Congress Party, having shown aptitude for little else, Mr. Guha noted, Rajiv Gandhi was prime minister. 
 But whatever its roots, the dynasty was begun and its magic endures, rekindled this year when Rahul Gandhi -- perhaps India's most eligible bachelor -- decided to run for Parliament, and his younger sister, Priyanka, hit the campaign trail on his and her mother's behalf. 
 Theirs is the power of celebrity, and aristocracy.
 Rahul, 33, who had been pursuing an unremarkable business career, has quickly warmed to the attention of the media and voters. He never shies from invoking his family history, perhaps recognizing that at this point, little else qualifies him for such a high-profile debut.
 ''Four members of my family before me retained their freshness,'' he said, when asked Thursday how he would retain his. ''Four members of my family before me have done a lot for this nation.''
 Priyanka, 32, her mother's campaign manager, comes across as personally gracious and politically savvy. Her image is on countless Congress billboards, in some cases next to her mother and grandmother, Indira Gandhi, to whom she bears an uncanny resemblance. 
 Like her brother, she happens to be helpfully good-looking, as a Congress spokesman noted recently when asked why her picture was on every poster although she is contesting no office.
 Both children have so far exhibited an ease in dealing with the public that their mother appears to lack. 
 Sonia Gandhi, who was born in Italy and married into the dynasty, begged her husband to stay out of politics and was drawn into it herself only when the party was in dire need of leadership. 
 She has more often seemed motivated by duty than desire. At a harried, hurried news conference on Thursday night, she looked as if she could not wait to escape, actually flinching at the yelled barrage of questions.
 But in campaigning until her voice was hoarse, defending her late husband's reputation against corruption charges and attacking Bharatiya Janata for a lack of secularism, she has shown a surprising tenacity -- or ambition -- that would have made her mother-in-law proud. 
 Indira Gandhi was originally seen as a ''gungi gudiya'' -- dumb doll -- whom Congress leaders installed in office because they thought she could be easily controlled. The same phrase has been used about Sonia Gandhi, and could turn out to be just as wrong.
 ''I have seen my mother fight with her back to the wall and she has won,'' Rahul Gandhi said Thursday. ''She has won against odds.''
 The Gandhis have maintained a populist appeal despite a privileged life. In part, it comes from the sense they have sacrificed more than their share.
 Pramod Mahajan, a leading B.J.P. election strategist, noted that Congress was still seen as a defender of the poor, in contrast to his party. Congress leaders, he pointed out, almost always run for seats in rural areas -- as both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi did in this election -- forming a link to the masses.
 Yet the Gandhis' rule of their party has often been less democratic than feudal. To some Indians, the notion of a family dynasty is an anachronism, and a deeply frustrating one because it has hijacked the best alternative to the Hindu nationalism of Bharatiya Janata.
 Even if at a glacial pace, India is becoming ever more a meritocracy, slowly shaking off the shackles of caste and class and birth. Old family businesses are dying, breaking up, or reinventing themselves in the face of competitive challenges. This electoral success aside, many analysts say, ultimately the Congress Party will have to do the same.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Motilal Nehru
Jawaharlal Nehru
Indira (Nehru) Gandhi
Sonia (Mainoo) Gandhi
Rahul Gandhi (Photographs by [from left] The British Library
London Express/Pictoral Parade
Agance Presse France
Associated Press)Chart/Photos: ''India's Nehru-Family Dynasty''With victories yesterday, the Nehru-Gandhi family is in its fifth generation in public service, dating to Motilal Nehru, a follower of Mohandas K. Gandhi (who is no relation to the family).Motilal Nehru1861-1931An associate of Mohandas K. Gandhi
served as president of the Congress Party in 1929.Jawaharlal Nehru1889-1964Prime minister in independent India, 1947-1964.Indira (Nehru) Gandhi1917-1984Prime minister from 1966-1977 and 1980-1984
assassinated in 1984.MARRIAGEFeroze Gandhi1913-1960Sonia (Mainoo) GandhiAge 57Italian-born, became an Indian citizen in 1983
President of Congress Party.MARRIAGERajiv Gandhi1944-1991Prime minister, 1984-1989
assassinated in 1991.Sanjay Gandhi1946-1980One-time Congress Party official, died in a plane crash in 1980.MARRIAGEManeka (Anand) GandhiAge 47Member of Parliament since 1996.Rahul GandhiAge 33Elected to Parliament yesterday.Priyanka GandhiAge 32Served as her mother's campaign manger.Varun GandhiAge 24Member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.(Sources by WilsonWeb
 Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th Edition)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); HISTORY (64%); BRITISH ROYALTY (64%) Politics and Government; Elections

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (92%) Amy Waldman; Sonia Gandhi

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



308 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Legal Aid Deficits May Force Out 200 People

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
More than 200 people who work for the Legal Aid Society, most as criminal defense lawyers for the poor, may be laid off within weeks, a result of a potential $2 million budget cut and lingering deficits from the past two years.
 An $11 million gap exists between what the organization estimates it needs to handle its 210,000 cases a year -- $77.5 million -- and what is allocated for it in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed executive budget, $66.8 million.
 If the mayor's budget is passed and no changes are made at Legal Aid, the group will go into the next fiscal year facing a $20 million deficit and unable to handle at least 32,000 of its cases. About 160 of the organization's 880 lawyers and 40 members of the support staff could be laid off, which would affect tens of thousands of indigent defendants in New York City courts. 
 ''We're cooperating in understanding the city's needs, but it is a reality to say that we have to plan for the city not giving us adequate resources,'' said Daniel L. Greenberg, Legal Aid's executive director and attorney-in-chief.
 John Feinblatt, the city's criminal justice coordinator, said that the size of the increase Legal Aid was requesting, combined with the large deficit, ''raises for us some serious questions about their fiscal management, and those are the issues we're exploring right now.''
 Mr. Feinblatt said that the Bloomberg administration had restored Legal Aid's role in the justice system, raising its allocation to $68.8 million two years ago from $54.8 million in fiscal year 2002 ($60 million with City Council contributions). Now Legal Aid is asking for $77.7 million, what Mr. Feinblatt called ''a whopping 42 percent increase'' since Mr. Bloomberg took office.
 Over the past two years, Legal Aid, a nonprofit organization meant to function like a public defender's office, has been in the unusual position of borrowing money on credit to sustain its services to the city. But according to officials at the society, the line of credit is used up, and the society is at a crisis point.
 Legal Aid found itself needing to borrow money -- it would not disclose the exact amount -- in part because it underestimated the cost of providing increased services to the city during its last round of negotiations two years ago for a contract that increased its workload and financing.
 Before its last contract with the city, Legal Aid handled about 70 percent of the indigent-criminal caseload and received $60 million from the city. Its new contract specified that it had to handle 86 percent of the indigent criminal caseload or face a penalty, and raised its allocation to $68.8 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (94%); BUDGETS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%) Legal Aid for the Poor; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Legal Aid for the Poor

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (91%) Legal Aid Society

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



309 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Discounters Grow as Cheap Makes a Comeback

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
For Wal-Mart and its fellow discounters, cheap is cool again -- at least for now.
 Wal-Mart Stores reported yesterday that its profits for the first quarter rose 16 percent and that overall sales, bolstered by growing interest in apparel, increased at the fastest pace in more than two years. But H. Lee Scott Jr., the company's chief executive, warned that soaring gasoline prices could put a crimp in consumer spending in the months ahead, potentially slowing the gains that Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, previously forecast.
 Mr. Scott said he remained optimistic about the outlook for spending, but added that he was ''concerned about the impact higher gasoline and petroleum prices will have on our customers.'' The sharp increase in gasoline prices -- the average price nationally is now $1.94 a gallon -- has drained roughly $7 a week from the wallets of Wal-Mart's customers, he said. 
 Analysts, however, remained positive about Wal-Mart's growth prospects. Most reiterated buy ratings on the stock, which closed at $55.25, up 19 cents. For the quarter ended April 30, net income reached $2.17 billion, or 50 cents a share, compared with $1.86 billion, or 42 cents, a year earlier. 
 ''Rising prices at the pump were certainly a negative,'' said Todd D. Slater, an analyst with Lazard, ''but it was more than offset by rising employment and rising income levels.''
 Indeed, some saw a silver lining for Wal-Mart and other discount merchants in the cloud of higher gas prices. ''If Americans are paying more for gas, and seemingly traveling fewer miles,'' said Bill Dreher, a senior retail analyst for Deutsche Bank, ''then they will probably shop at Wal-Mart for commodities'' -- like toothpaste and underwear -- and shop at Target, another discounter, for fashionable clothes.
 Both Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., and Target, based in Minneapolis, have improved their offerings in the last year, analysts said. 
 Target reported an even greater earnings increase yesterday than Wal-Mart, a rise of 26 percent, to $438 million, or 48 cents a share. The figure also exceeded analysts' estimates. Revenue increased 12 percent, to $11.59 billion, for the quarter, which ended May 1. Despite the encouraging news, the stock closed at $43.17, down $1.18.
 Growth at Wal-Mart and at Target had slowed, as Americans celebrated the recovering economy and income tax savings by aspiring to brands like Burberry, Gucci and Coach. Those merchants started cranking out branded items for the middle class, in some cases christening their brands ''affordable luxury.'' Indeed, as blue-collar workers stopped worrying so much about losing their jobs, experts said, many saved extra money to buy brands associated with luxury.
 But within the last year, Target and Wal-Mart -- along with Kohl's, a hybrid department store and discounter, which has been hit particularly hard by a failure to keep its stores up to date -- made needed changes, analysts said.
 Kohl's reported a modest 2.5 percent increase in profit, to $113.8 million, or 33 cents a share, from $111 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, on stronger sales of $2.38 billion, a 12 percent increase.
 Target, called ''Tar-zhay'' by the consumer cognoscenti, lost ground last year, partly because it failed to satisfy many of its more upscale customers, analysts said. But in the last few months, Target has introduced new lines and cleaned up its stores, de-emphasizing its Cherokee brand sportswear and accelerating promotions for its classier Isaac Mizrahi lines.
 Target also introduced a Sonia Kashuk line of makeup and Liz Lange maternity clothes. In addition, it received the right to sell Simply Shabby Chic, a line that Mr. Dreher said was previously available only in specialty shops.
 Target announced this year that it might sell its struggling Mervyn's moderate-price chain, and Marshall Field's, its jewel-in-the-crown department store chain concentrated in the upper Midwest. Robert Drbul, an analyst with Lehman Brothers, predicted in a report yesterday that both chains would be sold ''at a favorable price for Target,'' and raised his forecast for Target's earnings for 2004 and 2005.
 As for Wal-Mart, it ''hit an apparel iceberg'' last year, Mr. Slater of Lazard said. The chain bought too much clothing, and consumers did not respond.
 Fresh with new assortments, both Wal-Mart and Target leapt to take advantage of ''a moderate consumer whose confidence is building,'' Mr. Dreher said. 
 As yet, the higher-end department stores like Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue have barely been touched; both slowed in April, but only after sales increases of more than 20 percent in March at stores open at least a year. 
 So Target and Wal-Mart may not be stealing business from the fancier retailers as much as squeezing those in the middle. ''The moderate department stores -- Sears, Dillard's and Proffitt's and some of the May Department Stores -- are having a tough time now,'' Mr. Dreher said. The exception, he said, seems to be J.C. Penney, which, under Allen I. Questrom, its chief executive, seems to be in the midst of a full-scale turnaround.
 ''The move back to the discounters -- that it's cool to cheap out -- is re-accelerating,'' Mr. Dreher said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); GASOLINE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Retail Stores and Trade; Company Reports; Sales

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Target Corp; Kohl's Corp

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (73%) Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004



310 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Appear Ready To Approve a Biotech Corn

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER and ANDREW POLLACK; Paul Meller reported from Brussels for this article and Andrew Pollack from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, May 14 

 BODY:
The European Union appears ready to approve a genetically engineered corn, ending a six-year moratorium on approvals for biotechnology crops that led to a bitter trade dispute with the United States. 
 Spokesmen for the European Commission said here on Friday that the commissioners were expected to approve the corn, an insect-resistant sweet corn developed by Syngenta, at its weekly meeting on Wednesday. 
 United States government and industry officials cautiously welcomed the move but said a single approval would not be enough to make Washington drop its complaint before the World Trade Organization about Europe's refusal to approve biotech foods. 
 ''The approval of a single product does not affect our W.T.O. challenge,'' Christopher Padilla, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, said on Friday. ''It does not indicate there is a consistently functioning approval process.'' 
 Fred Yoder, chairman of the board of the National Corn Growers Association, called the expected approval ''a great beginning to have a full and complete lifting of the embargo in Europe.'' 
 Mr. Yoder, a farmer in Plain City, Ohio, said further approvals could pave the way for the trade complaint to be dropped but that the Europeans first ''have to prove they are sincere about lifting the moratorium.'' 
 The corn, known as Bt-11, will be approved only for consumption, meaning Europeans will be able to eat the corn after it is imported from other countries but European farmers will still not be able to grow it themselves. The corn contains a bacterial gene that produces a toxin making the corn resistant to the corn borer and the corn earworm. The corn is also resistant to glufosinate, an herbicide. 
 The approval is not expected to have much of an effect on American food and farm business. That is in part because under European rules, the corn would have to be labeled as genetically modified, which would discourage consumers from buying it and food companies from even offering it for sale. 
 ''There is simply no market for G.M. foods in Europe as consumers have overwhelmingly rejected them,'' Friends of the Earth, a group opposed to crop biotechnology, said in a statement. 
 Indeed, Monsanto dropped plans on Monday to introduce what would have been the world's first genetically engineered wheat in large measure because of opposition from food companies in Europe, which threatened not to import the wheat from American farmers.
 In addition, sweet corn, the type that is eaten on the cob or canned or frozen, accounts for only about 1 percent of the American corn crop. The vast bulk of corn is field corn, the more starchy type fed to animals or processed to make corn oil, corn syrup and other food ingredients. 
 And Bt-11, the only biotech sweet corn on the market, accounts for only about 1 percent of the sweet corn planted in the United States, Syngenta has said. 
 After approving some genetically modified crops, the European Union essentially stopped doing so in 1998 as opposition to biotech foods mounted. The United States, Canada and Argentina, all major growers of genetically modified crops, challenged Europe at the W.T.O., saying the de facto ban violates trading rules because it is not based on any scientific evidence that the crops are harmful. 
 The W.T.O. hearing on the complaint is expected in June, putting some pressure on the European Commission to lift the embargo before then. 
 Bt-11 sweet corn seemed an easy test case because Bt-11 field corn, with the same foreign genes, had already been approved for use in food and animal feed by the European Union before the moratorium began. A European scientific panel also found the sweet corn safe in 2002. 
 Some countries, nonetheless, balked at approving it, so the matter has been referred to the European Commission, which is viewed as more eager to end the moratorium. Still, some American officials wonder whether the commission will actually approve the corn on Wednesday, and, even if it does, whether some of the countries will still not allow it in. 
 ''For the past several months we've been reading that the moratorium will end next week and then something comes up,'' said Lisa Dry, spokeswoman for the Biotechnology Industry Organization, an American trade group. She said more than 30 genetically modified crops were awaiting review in Europe. 
 As a prelude to lifting the moratorium, the European Union is instituting new rules on labeling of genetically modified foods and on ''traceability,'' the documentation of the source of the ingredients. Some American executives say those rules are unwieldy and would prevent sales of biotech foods in Europe even if the moratorium were lifted. 
 ''That is a de facto ban on our products,'' said Stephanie Childs, a spokeswoman for the Grocery Manufacturers of America, which represents big food companies. 
 Syngenta, a Swiss agrochemical and seed company formed by the merger of the divested agricultural businesses of Novartis and AstraZeneca, declined to comment on the expected approval, saying it would wait until the European Commission acts. 
 Experts say that even if the Bt-11 corn is never shipped in large quantities to Europe, it might make American farmers more willing to grow it because they would have to be less careful about segregating it from other crops destined for Europe. Once approved in Europe, small amounts of the corn would be allowed in European foods without prompting the labeling requirement or food recalls. 
 The sweet corn is approved for both eating and growing in the United States, Canada, Argentina, South Africa and Japan. It is approved for eating but not growing in Switzerland, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and South Korea, according to Syngenta.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The European Union is expected to approve a genetically modified corn developed by Syngenta. Last year, Greenpeace members protested biotech corn in Spain. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (93%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HERBICIDES (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ANIMALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) Grain; Genetics and Heredity; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture; Glufosinate (Herbicide); Grain; Pesticides; Defoliants and Herbicides; Labeling and Labels

COMPANY: SYNGENTA AG (58%); MONSANTO CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); NATIONAL CORN GROWERS ASSOCIATION (56%) European Union; Syngenta; World Trade Organization

TICKER: SYT (NYSE) (58%); SYNN (SWX) (58%); MON (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (52%)

PERSON: Paul Meller; Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



311 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Prices in April Rose a Bit; Energy Costs Stir Concern

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Consumer prices crept up in April, rising by only 0.2 percent, the smallest monthly increase this year, the government reported yesterday. But the report also suggested that inflation had probably accelerated in May, as gasoline prices began rising sharply again. 
 In any case, the rise in inflation over the last four months has lasted long enough to convince many economists that the Federal Reserve must soon raise interest rates -- probably when the Fed's policy makers meet in late June -- to demonstrate that they are willing to slow the economy and dilute the price pressures. 
 ''This latest report adds evidence that we are in an acceleration of inflation at all stages,'' said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. 
 The April inflation number, while relatively low, did not take the pressure off the Fed. The inflation rate would have been higher but for an idiosyncrasy in the way the Bureau of Labor Statistics, keeper of the Consumer Price Index, performs its calculations. 
 Medical care, airline travel, hotel lodging, college tuition, recreational activities and housing all cost more in April than in March, particularly in the Northeast. Fuel oil prices, on the other hand, were listed as having fallen, even though they actually rose, because of the formula the government uses to adjust for seasonal variations. 
 Largely because of that quirk, the so-called core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy and is the rate that the Fed's policy makers watch closely, rose more than the overall inflation rate. The core figure was up 0.3 percent in April and 1.8 percent over the last 12 months. By comparison, the core index rose only 1.1 percent for all of 2003 and was running at an annual rate of only 1.3 percent as recently as February.
 ''Something we did not expect to happen has happened,'' said Lawrence Meyer, a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former Fed governor, noting the surprisingly strong inflation of the last four months. 
 Idle capacity, particularly in manufacturing, and weak wage growth, which has held down labor costs, had suggested to some economists that the inflationary surge was a temporary phenomenon. But Mr. Meyer and many other forecasters argue that this view is now wishful thinking. ''We have removed the ability to be patient any longer about inflation,'' Mr. Meyer said. 
 At its current level, the core inflation rate is approaching the 2 percent figure that many analysts describe as a limit, set by the Fed, that cannot be exceeded without forcing the central bank to raise the pivotal short-term interest rate that it controls. That rate, which in turn affects interest rates on home mortgages, car loans and other consumer credit, has been at a 46-year low of 1 percent since last June.
 The April data follow a surprising 0.5 percent surge in the price index in March that had signaled, for the first time, that inflation was clearly on the upswing. A rapidly growing economy, starting last summer, is contributing to the upward pressure on prices. So are rising commodity prices, especially for steel, and the falling value of the dollar against other currencies. The dollar's decline means that import prices are no longer falling. That gives American companies an opportunity to raise their prices with less fear that foreign competitors will undercut them.
 One result of these favorable economic winds has been an upturn in industrial production, especially in manufacturing. The industrial production index jumped 0.8 percent in April, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday. 
 And the capacity utilization index edged up to 76.9 percent from 76.5 percent in March, the Fed said. Even so, the figure means that nearly 23 percent of the nation's production facilities were still idle, enough to avoid inflationary shortages in most sectors of the economy. 
 ''My sense is that it is hard to see how the inflation rate can stay this high,'' said Lee Price, director of research at the Economic Policy Institute, a research house. ''It is not uncommon to have an energy spike that, like a pig in a python, works its way through and the inflation rate then subsides.''
 But fuel prices show no sign of subsiding. Higher oil prices put upward pressure on the prices of the numerous products and services dependent on oil -- public transportation, for example, electric power generation and the numerous consumer items made from plastic. 
 Gasoline prices have played a central role in the inflation story. They contributed significantly to the March jump in the Consumer Price Index. They rose in April, too, although not by as much as the Bureau of Labor Statistics had anticipated in this opening month of the spring and summer driving season. In the bureau's calculation, in fact, the seasonal adjustment translated into a 0.3 percent drop in gasoline prices. 
 ''Gasoline prices themselves went up 3.7 percent, which is a lot, but we expected them to go up more,'' said Patrick Jackman, a senior economist at the bureau. 
 The temporary reprieve will almost certainly disappear in May, however, because of an unusually rapid increase in pump prices in late April and early May, according to the Energy Department. The average price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline stood at $1.93 on May 7, up from $1.81 on April 23.
 Housing costs, the biggest single item in the C.P.I. market basket, rose strongly in April. Rent plays a significant role in determining housing costs, the theory being that rent is a proxy for what homeowners must spend. But here, too, the data may be misleading, according to Dean Baker, an economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, who argues that vacancy rates are high for rental units. ''The acceleration in rental inflation appears to be driven entirely by higher rents in the Northeast,'' Mr. Baker said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Inventory-Sales Ratio''Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted, from October 2002 to March 2004.Business Inventories and SalesBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.InventoriesMARCH: $1,205.24FEB.: $1,197.12SalesMARCH: 928.73FEB.: 902.29(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted.April: +0.8%Mar.: -0.1Feb.: +0.7Graph tracks Index of total industrial production from November 2002 to April 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Capacity Utilization''Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.Operating RatesApril: 76.9%March: 76.5Feb.: 76.6Graph tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, from November 2002 to April 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Percent change, month to month.Graph tracks percent change, month to month, from May 2003 to April 2004.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.3New YorkMONTH: +0.3YEAR: +3.7Los AngelesMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +2.3ChicagoMONTH: +0.5YEAR: +2.1Boston* (March)MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.9Dallas* (March)MONTH: +1.1YEAR: +0.5Detroit*MONTH: +0.7YEAR: +1.4Houston*MONTH: +0.7YEAR: +4.4Philadelphia*MONTH: +1.8YEAR: +4.1San Francisco*MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +0.5Washington* (March)MONTH: +0.9YEAR: +1.9*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for April, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TUITION FEES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Industrial Production Index

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



312 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: More Youths Opt for G.E.D. Tests, Skirting the Hurdle of High School

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
A testing system created more than half a century ago to help World War II veterans earn the equivalent of a high school diploma has increasingly become a way for teenagers to short-circuit high school.
 Roughly one of every seven high school diplomas granted in the United States in recent years has gone to someone who has passed the tests, known as the G.E.D. And the proportion of school-age students taking that route has risen sharply. 
 Nationally, teenagers accounted for 49 percent of those earning G.E.D.'s in 2002, up from 33 percent a decade earlier. Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts and New York were among the states where teenagers accounted for more than half of those earning G.E.D.'s. in 2002.
 ''The proportion of teenagers getting G.E.D.'s has doubled since 1989, while overall high school graduation rates have declined slightly,'' said Duncan Chaplin, an economist at the Urban Institute in Washington. 
 The growth has been especially pronounced in New York City. Last year, more than 37,000 school-age students were in G.E.D. programs run by the school system, up from 25,500 two years earlier.
 Most educators view the G.E.D. as a valuable option for people who do not make it through high school, but they do not consider it equivalent. 
 ''The G.E.D. was intended to be a second chance for adults; it was never intended to replace a high school education,'' said Anita Caref, director of the adult literacy program at Brooklyn College. 
 Experts attribute the flood of young people in part to the difficulty in finding a decent job without a high school diploma, and in part to the increased difficulty of earning a traditional high school diploma in many states. New York, for example, has made passing five Regents exams a condition of graduation, and no longer offers a lesser diploma for weaker students.
 Under the federal No Child Left Behind law and state efforts to hold schools more accountable, schools have more incentive to discourage weak students from staying. Students who transfer to G.E.D. programs are usually off school rolls, but in many states are not counted as dropouts.
 Mr. Chaplin, of the Urban Institute, said he had ''found pretty strong evidence that the G.E.D. option has been encouraging kids to drop out of high schools nationwide.''
 ''The rules governing the G.E.D. have become more lenient over time,'' he said. ''Under No Child Left Behind, we're holding schools very strictly accountable for test scores, but barely holding them accountable for students who drop out or go into G.E.D. programs. It is like holding hospitals accountable for the condition of patients who leave, but ignoring the number who die. It's a perverse incentive system.''
 Strictly speaking, the G.E.D. is not an educational program but a set of five tests requiring more than seven hours and covering reading, writing, mathematics, social studies and science. 
 As with the College Board's SAT exams, students are not required to enroll in any classes before taking the tests, officially the Tests of General Educational Development, which are administered by the American Council on Education in Washington. But many students need help to pass the G.E.D., and a patchwork of programs has evolved to assist them, run not only by school districts but also by community organizations, universities and proprietary schools. 
 ''There seems to be a whole shadow system of schools,'' said Elisa Hyman, deputy director of Advocates for Children, which has charged New York City high schools with pushing their weakest students into G.E.D. programs without proper counseling. ''Thousands of kids are participating in this alternative diploma track that is clearly inferior to a regular diploma.'' 
 There are no counts of how many students are in G.E.D. programs nationwide, but G.E.D. directors say that their programs are overflowing and that the number of young people has shot up. 
 One sign of the increase is reflected in the number of young people who take the tests or pass them, although they represent only a portion of the young people in G.E.D. programs. In 2001, about 2.8 million students earned traditional high school diplomas, while about 648,000 G.E.D.'s were awarded, including 266,000 to teenagers. 
 With the introduction of a new, harder test in 2002, the number of G.E.D.'s fell to 330,000. But Joan Chikos Auchter, executive director of the G.E.D. Testing Service, and others predict that the numbers will bounce back.
 G.E.D. preparation programs vary. Typically, classes are only a couple of hours a day, sometimes just two or three days a week. Often there is no standard curriculum, and there are no state licensing requirements for teachers. Many classes focus on the types of problems the students will encounter on the exam.
 At the Jamaica Learning Center in Queens, one of the first things Arnold Smith does when he arrives at his classroom is to post fractured sentences, full of grammar, spelling and punctuation errors like the ones students will have to spot and correct on the G.E.D.
 One morning in February, Mr. Smith's students were focused on this sentence: ''Excited and anxious, the gift's was quickly unwrapped.'' 
 ''This is a hard one,'' Mr. Smith said.
 A student responded, ''No it ain't.'' 
 But it took some hints before the students could identify all the errors. 
 The students were mostly attentive. The pace was quick. And Mr. Smith was nonjudgmental and encouraging. 
 One student later praised Mr. Smith's method, saying: ''Now I get it. I never got it before.''
 The Jamaica center sends about 300 students a year to take the tests, and about 80 percent pass. But hundreds more are not close to taking the test, and many drop out. Some are in basic literacy classes because they read below sixth-grade level. Some are in pre-G.E.D. classes, where the reading level is grades seven to nine. Only those reading at a 10th-grade level or above are put in the actual G.E.D. classes.
 G.E.D. administrators say the teenage students bring problems that adult students do not have.
 ''Not only do the younger students arrive with academic deficiencies,'' said Carlo Baldi, director of the Adult Literacy Program at the City College of New York, ''but they often come in with pretty serious deficiencies in life skills, too. Things like attendance, responsibility, maintaining communications.''
 Still, Mr. Baldi and others are reluctant to turn young students away.
 ''A high school diploma is a very important currency,'' said Leslee Oppenheim,'' director of curriculum and instruction at the City University of New York. ''This opens all kinds of doors.''
 Even students who obtain a G.E.D., however, are not home free. They typically earn less than high school graduates, and are less likely to go to college. The Army limits G.E.D.-holders to no more than 5 percent of its enlistees, and they do not qualify for the same enlistment options, said S. Douglas Smith, a spokesman for the Army Recruiting Command.
 But to many struggling high school students, the issue is not so much the future as the unhappy present. 
 Some students choose the G.E.D. on their own; others, struggling academically, are told by school officials that they would be better off in a G.E.D. program. Recent immigrants with weak English are frequently discouraged from enrolling in high school and pointed toward G.E.D. programs.
 In one recent study, John W. Sipple of Cornell University and David H. Monk and Kieran Killeen of Pennsylvania State University ''found evidence that teachers advise students of the G.E.D. option as early as eighth grade.'' Dr. Sipple declined to name any schools. 
 Many students say they know that the G.E.D. is viewed as a lesser degree, but that the atmosphere in G.E.D. programs is preferable to what they face in high school.
 ''High school isn't for everybody,'' said Abdullah Aminnullah, the 17-year-old son of Afghan immigrants, who entered the Jamaica Learning Center last winter. ''You don't get as much attention in high school as here,'' he said, adding, ''The teachers here really care and pay attention to you, and they really teach.''
 Mr. Aminnullah, who said he kept getting into scrapes and was suspended, said he chose the G.E.D. after learning that he had accumulated few credits toward graduation. But he had no problem passing the G.E.D. almost immediately.
 His classmate Priscilla Catapano also saw the G.E.D. as a lifesaver. She enrolled at the Jamaica Learning Center last November, three months after her 17th birthday, when she realized that she could not graduate with her class.
 She had cut classes in ninth grade -- ''It was stupid,'' she says now -- and missed more classes later because of medical problems. She could not bear to be left behind, and passed the G.E.D. this spring.
 ''If you are just getting a job, you are not going to get the best job with a G.E.D.,'' Ms. Catapano said. She added: ''I figured that once you are in college, who cares whether you have a high school diploma or a G.E.D.? And I'm confident that I will complete college.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnold Smith teaches a G.E.D. class at the Jamaica Learning Center in Queens. About 300 of the center's students take the test each year. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); VETERANS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (66%) Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; General Educational Development Test (GED); Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



313 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: What India's Upset Vote Reveals: The High Tech Is Skin Deep

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 14 

 BODY:
As India prepared to vote this spring, strategists from its ruling party mapped the country's first modern electoral campaign.
 They boasted of sending four million e-mail messages to voters and transmitting an automated voice greeting from the popular prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, to 10 million land and mobile phones 
 But the hype over the high-tech campaign obscured these statistics: In a country of 180 million households, only about 45 million have telephone lines. Among India's 1.05 billion people, only 26.1 million have mobile phones. And while around 300 million Indians still live on less than $1 a day, only an estimated 659,000 households have computers. 
 The message that the Hindu-nationalist-led government had delivered the country to a new era of prosperity was belied by the limited reach of the media to deliver it. 
 That gap -- the coexistence of a growing middle class with the growing frustration of those excluded from it -- helps explain why Mr. Vajpayee's government has been turned out of office in the biggest upset since 1977, when Indira Gandhi lost after imposing a state of emergency. 
 ''It was a huge popular rebellion,'' said Mahesh Rangarajan, a political analyst.
 In election results announced Thursday, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's coalition failed to win anywhere near enough seats to form a government. The B.J.P. itself, which a short while ago had been expected to coast to victory partly on the strength of an economic boom, emerged as only the second largest party. 
 The Indian National Congress will form the government with smaller parties, including Communist ones. The Congress leader, Sonia Gandhi, the Italian-born widow of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, now appears likely to become prime minister herself. 
 To attribute the election results only to economic factors would be an oversimplification. Caste, communalism, alliances with smaller parties, anti-incumbency, and local issues and personalities all played a role. But it also would be a mistake, analysts said Friday, to underestimate the role of economic discontent. 
 ''It is a big warning for everybody,'' said Sudheendra Kulkarni, a senior aide to Mr. Vajpayee.
 Mr. Rangarajan called it a ''victory of the common man and woman.''
 The notion of a class-based backlash may surprise Americans lately inundated with news of jobs migrating to India and a growth rate expected to reach 8 percent this year. 
 This still developing nation is indeed being transformed in many ways, but the transformation has yet to reach most of the population. The entire information technology industry here still employs fewer than one million people, compared with 40 million registered unemployed. 
 Growth in the preceding five years has averaged only about 5 percent, nowhere near enough to lift hundreds of millions from poverty. And the policy reforms, like privatizing state-owned industries or allowing more foreign investment, that have helped unleash the economy have yet to help an increasingly struggling agricultural sector, which supports some two-thirds of the population. 
 The B.J.P. and its allies fared poorly in all of the major metropolises, winning a total of only three seats in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Calcutta. But heavily rural states were their undoing, particularly in the south, which has decided the national government for the past 14 years. 
 N. Ram, editor in chief of The Hindu newspaper, said voters ''turned on those who were callous to it or perceived to be pro-rich or didn't do enough in a drought.'' 
 Not only the B.J.P. suffered for this: in Karnataka, home to Bangalore, the center of India's tech industry, voters turned out the Congress-run state government.
 They did the same in the state of Andhra Pradesh, where the chief minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu, a B.J.P. ally, had turned Hyderabad, the state capital, into ''Cyderabad'' by luring Bill Gates and others and trumpeting the ability of reforms and technology to transform the state. 
 But because of drought and his own failure to invest more in irrigation or other infrastructure that could have eased it, Mr. Naidu's government lost this week as farmers turned on him en masse. 
 That defeat was not hard to predict on a recent trip to the state, and in particular the rural district of Warangal, about two and a half hours from Hyderabad. Close to 300 indebted farmers have committed suicide since 1997, according to government officials. Statewide, nearly 3,000 farmers have killed themselves. 
 Hundreds more have taken their lives in other drought-afflicted southern states like Karnataka and Kerala. The suicides have become a potent national symbol of economic angst, and in some states, including Andhra Pradesh, they became an election issue as well. 
 With less than 40 percent of the state irrigated, and with an erratic power supply only 10 hours a day, farmers had no bulwark against the drought that devastated the state over much of the past decade. 
 The suicides have not been the only symptom of economic distress. The district also has been at the heart of a Marxist insurgency, the Naxalite movement, that is active in 15 or 16 Indian states. Drought, poverty and unemployment have fed young people's turn to extremism, officials said. 
 Now those same factors appear to have fed the defeat of Mr. Naidu and the B.J.P. and its allies as well.
 Mrs. Gandhi and other Congress campaigners harped ceaselessly on both the lack of jobs and the struggles of farmers. In its manifesto, the Congress Party has promised to address both problems. 
 But Mr. Kulkarni, the Vajpayee aide, challenged Congress's ability to fulfill those promises. Congress had ruled for most of the past 50 years, he noted. 
 ''They cannot pretend there was no poverty in those 50 years and it was all the creation of the last five years,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: On Friday, the smile of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, center, on a poster in New Delhi was out of date. He resigned Thursday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Elections; Computers and the Internet; Labor; Unemployment; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (58%) Amy Waldman; Atal Bihari (Prime Min) Vajpayee; Indira (1917-1984) Gandhi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) India; India

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



314 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Nets Win in Third Overtime For a 3-2 Lead Over Pistons
With Brian Scalabrine -- at left with Richard Jefferson -- scoring a career-high 17 points, the Nets battled Detroit through three overtimes before winning, 127-120, in Game 5 of their conference semifinal series. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

City Accord on Emergencies
The Bloomberg administration said New York's emergency agencies had reached a formal agreement on how they will coordinate their responses to disasters. But critics called the document was vague. PAGE B1

T. Rex on the Auction Block
Hundreds of bones from a Tyrannosaurus rex will be for sale in what is being called the largest auction of natural history items. PAGE A11

Consumer Prices Rise
Consumer prices crept up 0.2 percent in April, the smallest monthly increase this year, the government said. But the report also suggested that inflation probably accelerated in May. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Criminal Inquiry at Nortel
A federal grand jury in Texas has subpoenaed financial documents from Nortel Networks, the Canadian telecommunications giant, as part of a criminal investigation. PAGE C1

Vatican on Muslim Marriage
A new Vatican document discourages Catholics, especially women, from marrying Muslims. It also cites ''profound'' differences between the faiths, particularly regarding rights of women. PAGE A2

G.E.D. as a Way Out
A testing system that was created to help World War II veterans earn the equivalent of a high school diploma has taken on an unintended role: enabling teenagers to short-circuit high school. PAGE A14


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); WOMEN (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); GRAND JURY (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); VETERANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



315 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Japan to Press North Korea On Kidnapping

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 14 

 BODY:
Japan's prime minister will travel to North Korea next week in an attempt to win the release of family members of Japanese citizens abducted by the North, the government announced Friday.
 It will be the second visit to Pyongyang by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, whose first trip, in September 2002, led to the repatriation of five Japanese abductees who are now living in Japan without their families.
 The Japanese government said Mr. Koizumi would meet with the North's leader, Kim Jong Il, on May 22 in the hope that talks would improve relations between the countries, which do not have diplomatic ties. ''The aim is to restore trust between Japan and North Korea,'' said Hiroyuki Hosoda, the chief cabinet secretary, adding, ''There has been hardly any substantial progress since Prime Minister Koizumi last visited North Korea two years ago.'' 
 Mr. Hosoda said the North's nuclear program would also be discussed.
 The government said Tokyo had not received any guarantees that Mr. Koizumi's visit would yield the release of the family members. But it is widely believed here that Mr. Koizumi would not undertake such a politically risky move unless the likelihood of their release was very high.
 For the Japanese government, the release of the family members would put to rest, to some extent, a highly emotional issue that derailed initial hopes that Mr. Koizumi's first visit would lead to improved relations with North Korea. It would also give Mr. Koizumi and his Liberal Democrats a lift before upper house parliamentary elections this summer.
 As for North Korea, resolving the kidnapping issue could eventually lead to the normalization of diplomatic relations and billions of dollars in economic aid from Tokyo.
 During Mr. Koizumi's visit two years ago, North Korea made the surprising admission that it had kidnapped 13 Japanese citizens in the 1970's and 1980's so that they would serve as language instructors for North Korean spies. Five of them -- two couples and a woman married to an American soldier who defected to the North, Charles Jenkins -- returned to Japan shortly after Mr. Koizumi's visit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%) Kidnapping

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) Norimitsu Onishi; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) North Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



316 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Producer Turns From Footlights To Football

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Martin Richards, who has produced scores of plays and movies in his 40-year career, finally has a starring role in an action drama that has sundered the theater world and is rocking the West Side of Manhattan. Title it ''Bullets over Broadway.''
 Mr. Richards has been recruited by the New York Jets to help win over public opinion for its plan to build a $1.4 billion stadium along the West Side Highway at 34th Street, a proposal strongly opposed by several powerful Broadway theater owners and union leaders. He readily volunteers that he is not a football fan, and that nepotism played a role in his selection; his late wife, Mary Lea Johnson, was related to Woody Johnson, the Jets owner. 
 But Mr. Richards said he was convinced that a stadium with a retractable roof, next to an expanded convention center and near the waterfront, would be an exciting place that would draw more people to Manhattan and Broadway, his first love. 
 ''Anything that's going to enhance New York City's excitement and bring in more people is a good thing,'' said Mr. Richards, who produced ''La Cage aux Folles;'' ''Will Rogers Follies;'' and ''Chicago,'' both the original Broadway production and the Oscar-winning movie. 
 In his efforts to help the Jets, Mr. Richards has been joined by James L. Nederlander Jr. and his father, James Sr., who operate nine Broadway theaters as well as theaters in California, Chicago, Detroit and London. Their roles in the Jets' production puts them sharply at odds with Gerald Schoenfeld and Rocco Landesman, who between them control 22 of the 35 Broadway theaters, as well as Thomas C. Short, president of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Landesman have been outspoken business leaders opposing the stadium, which would be an Olympic stadium if the city wins its bid for the 2012 Summer Games.
 Rather than attracting people to Manhattan, they say, the 75,000-seat stadium would create traffic jams and discourage many from visiting the theater district, which they say is the city's most important tourist attraction, pulling in 225,000 patrons a week.
 The stadium would sit on a $400 million deck over the West Side railyards a dozen blocks southwest of Times Square. The Jets are putting up $800 million for construction, while state and city officials have agreed to provide $600 million.
 ''I support the Olympics in New York,'' said Mr. Schoenfeld, chairman of the Schubert Organization, ''but not at the expense of the West Side. It's already terribly congested. There is no record of a stadium having a positive economic impact on an urban area.''
 Mr. Short said he was ''philosophically opposed to giving a sports team $600 million when schools are crumbling in front of our eyes,'' voicing an argument similar to that of economists who question of the wisdom of public investments in stadiums. But Mr. Cross said the Jets stadium would be unlike any other in that it would be designed to be a convention hall, a home to basketball tournaments, circuses and Super Bowls, and a link to the Hudson River waterfront.
 The drama has unfolded with a symphony of grinding axes and only a month before a possible strike by union workers could darken Broadway theaters. Off stage, rumors abound. Did Mr. Nederlander endorse the stadium because he is also a minority owner of the Yankees, who want a subsidized stadium of their own? Did Mr. Schoenfeld become a stadium critic after the city turned down his request for development rights to build a theater?
 Nonsense, the two men say. ''We think it'll be good for New York,'' Mr. Nederlander said. ''The more people who come into the city, the more who'll go to the theater.''
 The Jets have sought a counterweight to Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Landesman since the men went public with their criticism. Unable to quell opposition from community groups and West Side officials, stadium proponents do not want prominent figures adding their voices against the plan.
 Mr. Richards said both sides should be able to work out their differences. ''There are so many people with so much money involved with the stadium,'' Mr. Richards said. ''I think perhaps that people like Woody, who want to build the stadium, should do something for the theaters.''
 In the meantime, the battle of Broadway continues. Matthew Higgins, a vice president for the Jets, has been wooing union leaders with promises of jobs. 
 The American League of American Theaters and Producers decided to stay out of the fray. Alan Eisenberg, executive director of Actors' Equity, acknowledged pressure from both sides, but said the union had not taken a position because ''we have really been overwhelmed with negotiations.'' 
 Labor officials suggested that the stadium could be used as leverage in the coming contract negotiations with theater owners. If there is a strike, the mayor could side with the unions, positioning himself as a friend of workers, while punishing Mr. Schoenfeld.
 ''I don't believe they would do that,'' said Mr. Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which operates five Broadway theaters. ''Bloomberg hasn't tended to play those games.''
 But Mr. Landesman is concerned that the combined efforts of the Bloomberg administration, the Olympic bid committee and the Jets have served to dampen public debate. ''A lot of people are shy about articulating their concerns, because they don't want to alienate the mayor,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''I love the mayor, but there are real questions about this project.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Richards, a veteran show producer, says a new stadium would attract people. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); OLYMPICS (86%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SPORTS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); THEATER (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CITIES (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Theaters (Buildings); Theater; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%) New York Jets

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Martin (Producer) Richards

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



317 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Velvet Hand, Iron Glove

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I had just about convinced myself that Iran is not a police state -- and then the authorities detained me for a second time.
 The first time was in Isfahan, for committing journalism. The police apologized and let me go after 30 minutes when my papers were found to be in order. The second time was at Tehran's airport as I was trying to leave, and this time the interrogation was tougher. 
 ''Have you ever been to Israel?'' Gulp, yes.
 ''Are you working for the Israeli government?'' Of course not.
 ''Are you working for the American government?'' I tried to explain that my views make me unemployable by either the Bush or Sharon administrations, but the interrogators were weak on both subtlety and humor.
 After hinting for 90 minutes that I was a spy and a liar, and that they might hold on to me indefinitely, the interrogators finally let me board my plane. Indeed, toward the end, they seemed worried principally by my threat to write about the encounter. 
 That episode crystallized an impression that had been forming during my trip through Iran: if it were an efficient police state, it might survive. But it's not. It cracks down episodically, tossing dissidents in prison and occasionally even murdering them (like a Canadian-Iranian journalist last year). But Iran doesn't control information -- partly because satellite television is ubiquitous, if illegal -- and people mostly get away with scathing criticism as long as they do not organize against the government.
 The embarrassing point for us is that while Iran is no democracy, it has a much freer society than many of our allies in the Middle East. In contrast with Saudi Arabia, for example, Iran has (rigged) elections, and two of its vice presidents are women. The Iranian press is not as free as it was a few years ago, but it is now bolstered by blogs (Web logs) and satellite TV, which offer real scrutiny of government officials.
 I was astonished that everywhere I went in Iran, people would immediately tell me their names and agree to be photographed -- and then say something like, ''There is no freedom here.''
 All this means, I think, that the Iranian regime is destined for the ash heap of history. An unpopular regime can survive if it is repressive enough, but Iran's hard-liners don't imprison their critics consistently enough to instill terror.
 Pet dogs, for example, are strongly discouraged in Iran as dirty and contrary to Islam, and traffic police regularly arrest dogs and their owners. But the number of pet dogs is multiplying, and Tehran now has dozens of veterinary clinics.
 Many Iranians believe that the Iranian leadership is pursuing a ''Chinese model,'' in which the authorities tolerate personal freedoms but rigidly control politics. But it won't work. In China, the greatest expansion of personal freedoms was followed, in 1989, by the biggest antigovernment demonstrations in Chinese history.
 In one country after another (including Iran in 1979), repressive governments have tried to buy time by easing up a tad, and dissidents have used that as leverage to oust the oppressors. I'm convinced that Iran will be the same (although I should acknowledge that my Iranian friends, who know the situation much better, tend to be more pessimistic). 
 The crisis in legitimacy even manages to create nostalgia for the repressive shah. ''Everybody longs for the good old days of the shah,'' said Amir, a peasant in a village north of Isfahan. ''Prices were cheap, and he was good at building the country. If the shah built a road, it would still be good after 30 years. Now if they build a road, it cracks and falls apart in a few years.''
 Young people constantly told me how they scolded their parents for backing the Islamic Revolution in 1979. As a young woman, Sogand Tayebi, put it, ''Those who backed the revolution are now sorry about that.''
 In the end, I find Iran a hopeful place. Ordinary people are proving themselves irrepressible, and they will triumph someday and forge a glistening example of a Muslim country that is a pro-American democracy in the Middle East.
 I treasure a memory from the airport: after I was detained, a security goon X-rayed my bags for the second time and puzzled over my computer equipment. He snarled at me, ''American reporters -- bad!'' The X-ray operator, who perhaps didn't know quite what was going on, beamed at me and piped up, ''Americans -- very good!'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); DOGS (89%); PETS (83%); WRITERS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); POLITICS (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); VETERINARY SERVICES (60%); RELIGION (50%) Politics and Government

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iran; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



318 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: America Adrift in Iraq

 BODY:
Six weeks of military and political reverses seem to have left the Bush administration doing little more in Iraq than grasping at ways to make it past November's presidential election without getting American troops caught in a civil war. The lowering of the administration's expectations might be therapeutic if it produced a realistic strategy for achieving a realistic set of goals. Unfortunately, there appears to be no such strategy, only odd lurches this way and that under the pressure of day-to-day events. That pattern heightens the danger of an eventual civil war or anarchy, the two main things that American forces are ostensibly remaining in Iraq to prevent.
 At times, the only unifying theme for Washington's policies seems to be desperation. American field commanders have now signed over the city of Falluja to former officers of the same Baathist army they came to Iraq to fight a little more than a year ago. The original plan of having American marines storm Falluja to avenge the mob murders of four private contractors there was not a wise idea. Handing over the town to these politically ambitious soldiers looks even more shortsighted. Subcontracting security and territory out to rival Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish warlords can only increase the risks of an eventual civil war. 
 In the diplomatic arena, White House aides are now beseeching the same United Nations they once belittled to rescue the transition, hoping that its special emissary, Lakhdar Brahimi, can somehow produce a plan for an interim government after June 30 that will rescue the nation-building efforts American occupation authorities have badly botched. This could be a positive development. If President Bush is now prepared to yield real authority to the U.N. over transition arrangements, for example, it may create a sense of legitimacy that Washington itself is no longer in any position to bestow. But at this point it may be beyond the U.N.'s power to convince a skeptical world that Iraq will regain any meaningful sovereignty after June 30 if the real decisions on security and reconstruction are still made by Americans.
 Members of the discredited, American-appointed Iraqi Governing Council are maneuvering to ensure a share of power for themselves after the council is dissolved next month. This is a terrible idea, linking the new interim government to the occupation regime and prejudicing future elections by giving council members an unfair inside track. Yet the administration seems to be wavering, reluctant to upset the transition timetable by antagonizing any of its few remaining Iraqi allies.
 If any of the goals Americans wanted to achieve in Iraq can still be salvaged, it will take more than fumbling crisis management driven by the needs of the Bush re-election campaign. A clear and coherent new course needs to be set without further delay, beginning with aggressive policy and personnel changes to undo the damage of the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. The U.N. should be given clear authority over transitional political arrangements after June 30, with Washington fully backing Mr. Brahimi's efforts to assemble a caretaker government of credible Iraqis who are not associated with the occupation and are willing to put aside their own political ambitions. 
 Important constitutional and political decisions should be deferred until elections can be held, but the interim government should assume administrative control over oil revenues and economic reconstruction projects and exercise sovereign authority over the Iraqi police and the courts. And if, as is now generally assumed, it consents to the continued presence of American occupation forces, it will also have to work out a new relationship with these troops, who will remain accountable to Washington, not Baghdad. This will go more smoothly if the administration stops subcontracting security to former Iraqi warlords and private companies and makes sure that all American troops are properly trained for the tasks assigned to them.
 In the short run, replacing these proxies will probably require sending more troops, or delaying scheduled rotations out of Iraq. But over time, if the administration is finally ready to accept international oversight and a real measure of Iraqi sovereignty, Americans may see a reduction of violence and increased peacekeeping help from other nations. With June 30 rapidly approaching, Washington will soon have to choose its course. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); ARMIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); TERRORISM (60%) Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) United Nations

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



319 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Forget Lonely. Life Is Healthy At the Top.

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
If you want to get a sense of how social status affects health, then take a ride on Washington's metro system. Start in the blighted southeast section of downtown. For every mile traveled to tony Montgomery County in Maryland, life expectancy rises about a year and a half. By the time you get off, says Sir Michael Marmot, a British epidemiologist who has been studying the link between social position and health, you will find a ''20-year gap between poor blacks at one end of the journey and rich whites at the other.''
 The notion that status in and of itself -- not just as a stand-in for money, education or nutrition, quality of medical care, bad habits or good genes -- largely determines how healthy you are has become a cutting edge of public health research. Biologists, neurologists, economists, psychologists, primatologists and more have been trying to pinpoint precisely what links the two. ''The whole issue of health disparities is very hot now,'' said Nancy Adler, a professor of medical psychology at the University of California, San Francisco. ''There is a meeting every other minute.''
 This summer, Sir Michael, a leader in the field, is publishing his first book for the general public, in which he pulls together 25 years of research, declaring that status is more important than genetics, supersize fast food or even smoking. 
 But figuring out that status matters is one thing; figuring out why is another. How does status get under the skin? 
 There are now tens of thousands of papers and research projects offering theories. But the answers are as tantalizing, and controversial, as they are elusive.
 After all, why should the ability to get a reservation tonight at the exclusive Per Se restaurant instead of Red Lobster or playing golf at Augusta instead of Van Cortlandt Park prolong one's life? Why, as Sir Michael writes in ''The Status Syndrome: How Social Standing Affects Our Health and Longevity'' (Times Books), ''should educated people with good stable jobs have a higher risk of dropping dead than people with a bit more education or slightly higher status jobs? Is living in a five-bedroom house with three bathrooms better for your health than 'crowding' the spouse and two children into a four-bedroom house with only two?'' 
 The answer, Sir Michael said in an interview from London, lies in the psychological effects of inequality: ''Your position in the hierarchy very much relates to how much control you have over your life and your opportunities for full social engagement.'' Those feelings, he and others argue, profoundly affect one's health.
 What transformed the health establishment's thinking about the link between status and health was the Whitehall Studies, long-term research projects that have tracked the health of thousands of British civil servants since 1967. Whitehall provides something pretty close to an ideal real-world laboratory. After all, it is not the gap between the haves and have-nots where one might find the most compelling evidence for the status syndrome, but between the have-a-lots and the have-the-mosts. Civil servants all have office jobs, health care and high job security, but they are sharply classified according to rank. 
 What researchers found is that those in the lowest grade were three times more likely to die at any given age as those in the highest. One explanation might be that people on the lowest rung have unhealthier habits -- smoking, not exercising, bulking up on fast food. But researchers who looked more closely at coronary heart disease concluded that risk factors accounted for only one-third of the differences between those at the top of the social hierarchy and those at the bottom. ''A smoker who is low employment grade has a higher risk of heart disease than a smoker who is higher grade,'' writes Sir Michael, the former director of the Whitehall study. ''A nonsmoker who is lower grade has a higher risk of heart disease than a nonsmoker who is higher grade.''
 Whitehall shook the public health establishment. ''Those findings caused me to change my career,'' said Ms. Adler, referring to results published in the early 90's. ''It was so dramatic and so puzzling.'' Still, researchers in the United States were slow to focus on the subject in earnest, she added, probably because of America's preoccupation with race and ethnicity as opposed to class.
 Ms. Adler, who directs the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Socioeconomic Status and Health, has been looking at how people's own perception of their status affects their health. She found, for instance, that among white women who shared the same socioeconomic level, those who viewed themselves as occupying a higher social rung were in better health than those who did not. 
 Many researchers argue the reason for such results is stress. ''Sustained, chronic and long-term stress is linked to low control over life circumstances,'' Sir Michael writes, and low control is related to social position. 
 Stress triggers a higher heart rate, a release of adrenaline, glucose and other neurological responses to help the body respond to a short-term threat. But when extended over long periods of time, they can harm the cardiovascular and immune systems, making individuals more vulnerable to a wide range of conditions including infections, diabetes, high blood pressure, heart attack, stroke, asthma and aggression.
 Of course, being at the top can be extremely stressful if the hierarchy is unstable. As Robert M. Sapolsky, a professor of biology and neurology at Stanford University, has shown in his groundbreaking work with primates, dominant baboons have much lower rates of stress-related disease -- unless they have to fight to maintain their position as the leader of the pack. Then, they have the worst physiology (differences that certainly could not be due to, say, different educational levels or a pack-a-day habit.) As Dr. Sapolsky has said: ''I would not have wanted to have been the czar of Russia in the winter of 1917. You don't want to be on top of a hierarchy if everybody's trying to burn down the castle.''
 That's why Sir Michael explains that status ''is partly related to how you see yourself and how others see you, but it is also related to our set of social arrangements,'' or how a particular community accentuates or buffers differences in social position.
 Perhaps as important as stress, though, is a network of social support -- friends, family and community. Some epidemiologists have done research showing that a strong social network can actually increase someone's resistance to disease. One study has found a connection between life expectancy and a high level of participation in voluntary organizations. Married men and women consistently have lower mortality than singles, even aside from lifestyle differences, said Sir Michael, evidence that perhaps Adelaide was right to lament in ''Guys and Dolls'' that ''just from waiting around for that plain little band of gold, a person can develop a cold.''
 Critics have a different lament. Economists in particular are extremely skeptical that anything besides money and education -- and the material advantages and lifestyle they bring -- are at work. Angus Deaton, a professor of economics and international relations at Princeton, who says he is probably more sympathetic to the argument than many of his colleagues, still thinks the supposed links between prestige and health are fuzzy. ''I'm sure there's some effect of social status. But I don't know how strong it is.''
 ''How would we know what the effect of social status was,'' he asks, ''having parceled out all these other things,'' like education, employment, income and so on? The studies don't take account of differences in childhood experiences, for example, he said. 
 How would one explain what is known as the ''Hispanic paradox,'' the fact that Hispanics have lower than average rates of chronic illness than whites in the United States even though many live in relatively poorer social and economic conditions? ''There has been no real attempt to control for all of those things at the same time,'' he said.
 It may be, Mr. Deaton suggests, that health affects social status more than the reverse. ''The major reason that people retire from the work force is that they're sick, he said. ''If you get sick in America, it does terrible things to your social status.'' 
 Even advocates concede disentangling causes is tricky. Donald Redelmeier, a professor of medicine at the University of Toronto, explains that higher status could mean that other people who have an investment in maintaining your reputation -- an agent or a personal trainer and nutritionist -- help enforce a healthier regime. Think of it as the entourage effect. 
 Dr. Redelmeier and a colleague analyzed the lifespans of actors who won Oscars, their co-stars and the losing nominees -- 1,649 performers in all. They found that winning an Oscar added nearly four years to actors' life spans. If that figure doesn't sound overly impressive, consider that completely eliminating all kinds of cancer in North America would add only about three and a half years to life expectancy, Dr. Redelmeier said when the study was first published two years ago. 
 Maybe it is purely the prestige or maybe the Oscar effect is a result of peace of mind. ''When a critic gives you a nasty review, it doesn't stick,'' Dr. Redelmeier suggested, because ''you have that statuette, an uncontestable marker of peer approval.''
 Certainly, people deeply value status. Ask yourself which scenario you would prefer: an income of $125,000 when the average of those around you is $100,000; or an income of $175,000 when those around you is $200,000. Most people surveyed chose the $125,000 -- a higher relative status -- even though they would be worse off in absolute terms.
 That's been the case for a long time, says Robert Evans, an economist at the University of British Columbia who has studied the link between status and health. Even Julius Caesar remarked, ''I would rather be first in a little Iberian village than second in Rome.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Misha Erwitt for The New York Times)(pg. B11)Drawing (Drawing by Horacio Cardo)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (88%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (74%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (74%); FAST FOOD (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MAMMALOGY (68%); ZOOLOGY (68%); PRIMATES (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Circuses; Medicine and Health; Research; Books and Literature; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) Cirque Du Soleil

PERSON: Patricia Cohen; Michael (Sir) Marmot

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



320 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: A Gay Boomtown Is More Mainstream And Less the Cliche

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

DATELINE: WILTON MANORS, Fla. 

 BODY:
By the mid-1990's, this small, once comfortably middle-class city just north of downtown Fort Lauderdale had its share of woes. Crime, drugs and prostitution blighted various neighborhoods. The local Piggly Wiggly supermarket needed security guards before it shut down completely. 
 Then in 1997 George Kessinger converted a boarded-up bank in a derelict strip mall into a gay bar, and things began to change. Boards were removed from other storefronts in the mall, and more gay-oriented businesses opened -- a bar, a coffee shop, two men's clothing stores.
 Soon homes that would not sell for $80,000 or $90,000 even in a frenzied market moved briskly for $300,000 to $400,000, as gay men and women priced out of South Beach, Key West and Victoria Park in Fort Lauderdale moved to the more affordable bungalows of Wilton Manors. 
 Now, the city of 13,000 is 35 percent to 40 percent gay and thriving. It has a higher proportion of same-sex households than any other city in the country except Provincetown, Mass., and Guerneville, Calif., in the Sonoma wine country, according to a new study of census data.
 Unlike Provincetown and Guerneville, though, Wilton Manors is not a resort town. Nor does it does conform to cliches about what the United States' third-gayest city would be like. Its homes are modest, built mostly in the 1960's and of no particular architectural interest. There are no chic restaurants, no gym.
 Indeed, as a gay magnet, Wilton Manors has returned to its Middle American roots. While the debate over same-sex marriage may rage in places like Provincetown, which is to begin issuing marriage licenses on May 17, the concerns here seem more typically provincial.
 ''Gay marriage is not a lightning-rod issue here,'' said Gary Resnick, one of three openly gay men on the five-member City Commission. ''For the most part when people call the City Council they're calling about local issues -- noise, road work, things like that.'' 
 Wilton Manors is to urban revitalization what ''Will and Grace'' was to prime-time television -- proof that people may be more accepting of gays than polls suggest. The gay and straight worlds have integrated without much incident here. A Kiwanis Club cookout draws a mix of straight and gay people, as does the annual canoe race. Straight families take in the city's annual Stonewall Festival, a gay pride event. Young gay couples befriend their straight retiree neighbors. 
 Ross Carson, a 39-year-old anesthesiologist who moved here two years ago with his partner, said he had been impressed by the balance.
 Gayness, Dr. Carson said, is ''a nonissue here, and that's what I like about it.'' 
 He added, ''It's not Chelsea and all that goes along with that.''
 The city elected its first gay mayor, John Fiore, in 2000. He was succeeded two years later by Jim Stork, also gay and now the Democratic candidate running against Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., who has served in the House 23 years. 
 In an indication that the city had already evolved beyond any subjugation to identity politics, Scott Newton, a native of Wilton Manors and a married father of three, won the mayoral seat in March with 85 percent of the vote and backing of the gay community against a gay opponent who had virtually no civic experience. Mr. Newton ran on a platform advocating contained development and the growth of parks.
 Celeste Ellich, a 46-year-old real estate agent, former Navy intelligence specialist and married mother who has lived in Wilton Manors for 18 years, said her own political views had shifted as a result of the changing landscape. 
 A practicing Roman Catholic and Republican who attended the party's Southern Leadership Conference earlier this year, Ms. Ellich also served as Mr. Stork's campaign treasurer during his mayoral race and is helping in his Congressional bid. ''I just think he's a great guy,'' Ms. Ellich said. ''He gives and gives and gives. He empowers people to do things civically that they wouldn't ordinarily do.'' 
 ''Living in Wilton Manors,'' she added, ''you have to change. You can't be so conservative and stuffed-shirt.'' 
 When she and her husband give parties in her home now, she said, the crowd is a fairly balanced mix of straight families and gay men. 
 Eight years ago, the split between Democrats and Republicans was fairly even in Wilton Manors. Now, Republicans are in a minority. 
 ''There aren't that many of us left,'' said Ed Kalis, the city's funeral director, a married father and also a fireman.
 In recent years, Mr. Kalis has not been partisan in his voting for city officials. Nor has he let sexual orientation inform his decisions. ''The city was dead. Whether or people were gay or straight didn't matter to me,'' he said. ''I wanted to vote for people who were going to do something.''
 The changes in Wilton Manors have, of course, not passed completely without question. Many locals remark on the diminishing presence of young families. The number of students at Wilton Manors elementary school has declined to 650, from 904 10 years ago. ''On Halloween I don't even bother buying candy anymore,'' said Jane Buonomo, a 22-year resident of Wilton Manors.
 ''As you see the property values go up you see young families priced out,'' Mr. Fiore said. ''I've heard this all along and what I've said in response is 'well, we're going to have bring in wealthier parents.' '' 
 At the other end of the spectrum, he said, he once had someone say to him during his mayoral tenure that Wilton Manors would really be a terrific place if it were entirely gay. ''I said, 'you know what? I'd be the first to move.' ''
 With newfound popularity has come the inevitable construction boom. At least one complex is being built with gay buyers in mind. Of the 13 new housing developments under way, the biggest and most lavish is the $120 million Wilton Station being constructed on the 10-acre site of a former Miller brewing facility and scheduled for completion at the end of next year. Another, Belle Isle, is going up on the site of a former trailer park. Most of Wilton Station's 272 units have already been sold, said George Galuzzo, a partner in the project. 
 The development's Web site features images of men sharing Vespas and frolicking in a pool. The focus is on gays by real estate agents and developers is sure to keep the town's gay population growing. From 1990 to 2000, the number of same-sex couples counted by the census in Wilton Manors grew at more than six times the national average, said Gary J. Gates, a demographer who, with Jason Ost, a researcher, compiled ''The Gay and Lesbian Atlas,'' (Urban Institute Press, 2004). Among the analyses in the atlas was one that ranked the cities with the highest concentrations of gay residents.
 One recent afternoon, Rick Cameron, a flight attendant with Song Airlines, paced outside the Java Boys coffee house telling a friend on his cellphone that he had finally, after weeks of looking, found a two-bedroom apartment to buy in Wilton Manors. Mr. Cameron, who is gay, had exhausted himself of life in a tiny studio apartment on the Upper West Side in Manhattan for which he paid $1,300 a month. 
 ''There's a real community here,'' Mr. Cameron said when he got off the phone. ''They already know what I drink at Georgie's Alibi. At the gay coffee shop they know I like mochas. In New York, I went to the same coffee shop every day and no one knew who I was.''
 Also, Mr. Cameron noted, ''I used to pay $40 to get into a club; here I can buy two drinks for $5.''
 Dr. Carson and his partner, Jeffrey Schaumburg, a representative for a South American seafood wholesaler, gave up their lives in Cleveland for a waterfront home in Wilton Manors. Six friends from Cleveland now live there, too. 
 ''I wanted to be in a place where gayness was a more comfortable aspect of life,'' Dr. Carson said in his newly refurbished stucco home. ''It is not that I experienced gay bashing or prejudice in Cleveland. But I wanted to live in a place where gay life revolved around more than bars on a Saturday night.'' 
 Wilton Manors has also proven a draw to gay retirees who have found other warm-weather areas, like Palm Springs, Calif., too expensive. Four years ago, Ted Verdone, a retired former property manager from Bolton, Mass., traveled to South Florida on vacation with his partner. The couple bought a house in Wilton Manors in a week. He'd had his sights set on relocating to San Diego but couldn't afford it. 
 ''We didn't know that Wilton Manors was a gay mecca; we found out when we got here,'' Mr. Verdone said. ''As gay people in central Massachusetts, we were very much outsiders.'' 
 Since he moved to the area, he founded a local chapter of Toastmasters International, an organization that promotes public speaking. Thirty-one of the 33 members who joined are gay, Mr. Verdone said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Java Boys coffee shop is among the stores catering to the rising gay population in Wilton Manors, Fla. (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of Florida highlighting Wilton Manors: Wilton Manors' gay population is estimated as much as 40 percent. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (86%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); FAMILY (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); MEN (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); CENSUS (53%); RESEARCH REPORTS (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); BOATING & RAFTING (50%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (50%); BOAT RACING (50%) Homosexuality; Crime and Criminals; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Prostitution; Bars; Housing; Homosexuality; Geographic Profiles; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Ginia Bellafante

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) South Beach (Fla); Key West (Fla); Victoria Park (Fla); Provincetown (Mass); Guerneville (Calif); Wilton Manors (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



321 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Luxembourg: Economic Growth Accelerates

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Economic growth in the dozen euro nations accelerated to the fastest pace in three years in the first quarter as exporters benefited from rapidly growing demand in the United States and Asia. 
The economy expanded 0.6 percent in the first three months, the Luxembourg-based Eurostat agency said. Fourth-quarter growth was revised to 0.4 percent from 0.3 percent. Demand from abroad is helping the $8.5 trillion economy recover from the slowest growth in a decade last year. The European Commission left its forecast for the second quarter unchanged, saying growth will be 0.3 percent to 0.7 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (57%) European Commission

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); LUXEMBOURG (90%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



322 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: A Tree That Supported Sudan Becomes a War's Latest Victim

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, May 9 

 BODY:
Poor villagers have suffered most from the war ravaging the arid west of Sudan. But distant as the conflict may seem, the armed men on horseback who loot and burn villages and brutalize the local population here have also roiled corporate America.
 The attacks, part of a conflict that has afflicted the Darfur region since early 2003, have begun to disrupt the collection of a rare tree sap, gum arabic, an essential ingredient in everything from soft drinks to beauty products and pharmaceuticals.
 Used as an emulsifier, the sap keeps ingredients in carbonated beverages from settling at the bottom. It ensures that shampoo has the right consistency, and is used to coat pills to keep them fresh. It gives buns a perfect glaze and beer a thicker foam. 
 Since 1997, the United States has had economic sanctions in place against Sudan to protest the country's links to terrorists. But because gum arabic is so rare, it has been quietly exempted at the urging of American business leaders. Sudan provides more than two-thirds of the world's supply of gum arabic, and the colorless, tasteless resin collected here is considered top quality.
 The problem now in South Darfur, a gum-producing region where the violence has displaced more than a million people, is that the poor agriculturalists who usually collect the resin from the acacia trees that produce it have been too scared to venture out. In addition, the acacia trees are being cut down in large numbers by displaced villagers in need of wood.
 ''It's a big problem,'' said Mohammed al-Hassan Ali, the government forestry manager in South Darfur. ''Last year's harvest was down and we're very worried about this year's harvest.'' 
 Production of the valuable gum fell about 60 percent in the season that just ended, primarily a result of locusts and too little rain, industry leaders say. But the insecurity is only compounding the problem, they say.
 The low supply means the many companies that rely on Sudanese gum for their products, like Coca-Cola and Pfizer, are paying considerably higher prices for it.
 ''We've seen reduced availability and higher pricing,'' said Chris Berliner, vice president of the Importers Service Company in Jersey City, which imports Sudanese gum arabic, processes it and sells it. ''It's dramatic -- more than 100 percent more expensive.''
 The gum is such a vital ingredient in so many products that Mr. Berliner and other American business leaders now track the latest peace talks in Sudan and hope for calm.
 Because of the low production, the price offered to the local people who collect the gum from the trees has increased sharply.
 The gum is harvested, mostly by subsistence farmers, and sold through dealers to the Khartoum-based Gum Arabic Company Limited, of which the government has a 30 percent share. 
 During typical times, 100 kilograms (about 220 pounds) of gum arabic will bring in about 40,000 Sudanese pounds, about $150. Now, collectors can earn as much as five times more. 
 The costs in America have increased significantly, as well. A few years ago, industry officials said, a metric ton of processed gum arabic cost about $1,500. The price is now about double that, officials say.
 American importers of gum arabic last faced a crisis several years ago when Osama bin Laden, who lived in Sudan in the 1990's, was linked to the industry. A State Department official said there is no indication that such a connection currently exists.
 Oil is Sudan's biggest source of foreign currency, but this is primarily an agricultural and pastoral country, with about two-thirds of the population working in the fields. The primary cash crops are cotton, ground nuts and that sap from the acacia tree.
 Until the 1970's, Sudan had more than 90 percent of the arabic gum market. With the advent of new producers elsewhere in Africa, like Chad and Senegal, and artificial substitutes, that dominance has slid somewhat in recent years to between 70 and 80 percent.
 But there is something about the climate and the soil in this part of the world that produces a resin that cannot be reproduced, experts say. 
 Gum arabic comes from a particular type of acacia tree, the Acacia senegal, which grows in the semi-arid areas of sub-Saharan Africa, particularly between the latitude of 10 degrees and 15 degrees north, experts say. The trees can grow elsewhere -- there was an experiment to introduce them in Texas -- but the sap is not the same, experts say. 
 ''We are proud that this is a Sudanese product,'' said Omer el Mubarak Abuzaid, who has spent his career in the gum arabic industry. ''We know how important it is to industry in the USA. We know they need it for their Coke.''
 To get the gum from the trees, local harvesters peel away some bark and make small cuts in the branches. The sap begins seeping out and several weeks later forms a rubbery ball that can be plucked from the trees.
 After collecting the gum, more cuts are made in other parts of the trees. The process is continued throughout the annual harvest season, which lasts from the fall through to the end of April.
 Kordofan, in the center of Sudan, is the major gum-producing region. Darfur, in the west, produces about 10 percent of the country's gum. Across Sudan, about 5 million people make some portion of their income from gum arabic, officials in the industry say.
 Now, in some areas of Sudan, conflict is cutting into business. Besides scaring off gum collectors, the insecurity is driving villagers into the acacia forests, where they chop down trees as fuel for their fires and as building material for their huts.
 Outside of Nyala, in South Darfur, a vast settlement of displaced villagers sits atop what used to be an acacia grove. Around the camp, for as far as the eye can see, are stumps, many of which used to gum-producing trees.
 ''We can't prohibit them from cutting down trees,'' Mr. Ali said. ''It's life for them. But we can try to cut down the destruction.'' 
 To do so, he has dispatched a community outreach worker, Tawadud Abdallah Ali, to speak with camp dwellers about the importance of the acacia trees.
 During a recent visit to the Kalma camp outside Nyala, Ms. Ali talked to residents about the effect of all the chopping and urged them to reduce wood use by using mud ovens for cooking instead of open fires.
 ''There were many trees here before,'' she said, scanning a damaged forest. ''It was crowded.''
 In the shade of one of the trees that was still standing, a giant tabaldi, known for its fine juice, were two women weaving straw baskets. They said that was how they made ends meet now that it was too dangerous to go out to collect gum arabic, which is known locally as hashab.
 ''With hashab, you can make a lot of money,'' said one of the women, never looking up from her basket. ''There's no money with this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tawadud Abdallah Ali, above, in South Darfur, Sudan, under an acacia tree. The trees, which produce a rare sap, gum arabic, a staple of the economy, are being cut for firewood, below, in the war-torn country. (Photographs by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''Repercussions''Violence in Sudan is affecting production of gum arabic, a crucial ingredient in soft drinks, shampoo and pharmaceuticals.U.S. imports of gum arabic from Sudan, in millions of poundsGraph tracks imports of gum arabic from Sudan since 2000.Africa's projected 2004 exportsSUDAN: 58.5%CHAD: 25.2NIGERIA: 10.0OTHER: 6.3(Sources by P. L. Thomas
 ICON Group International)(pg. A10)Map of Sudan highlighting Darfur region and Kordofan region. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); GELLING THICKENING & STABILIZING AGENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); SOFT DRINKS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); EMULSIFIERS (76%); CHEMICALS (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (70%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%) Trees and Shrubs; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Gum Arabic (Tree Sap); Soft Drinks; Cosmetics and Toiletries; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); United States International Relations; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GUM ARABIC CO LTD (60%); PFIZER INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS111998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CROP FARMING (60%); SIC0191 GENERAL FARMS, PRIMARILY CROP (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



323 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Contracts in Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 We take strong exception to Paul Krugman's assertion that ''in Iraq, economic planning has been subcontracted -- after a highly questionable bidding procedure -- to BearingPoint, a consulting firm with close ties to Jeb Bush'' (column, May 4).
 While we try to have business relationships with government officials at many levels, our company does not have unusually ''close ties,'' or any close ties, with Governor Bush.
 BearingPoint simply followed the bidding process defined by the United States Agency for International Development, and we were awarded the contract as a result of a competitive process that determined that BearingPoint was the best candidate for the work.
 BearingPoint has been retained by A.I.D. to do similar work in Afghanistan, Kosovo and Montenegro. In the written and oral competition, BearingPoint was judged to have had both the highest technical proposal and lowest-cost proposal. Politics, political ties or connections did not enter into the decision.

RANDOLPH C. BLAZER
Chairman and Chief Executive
BearingPoint Inc.
McLean, Va., May 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (88%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (88%); GOVERNORS (87%); POLITICS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ETHICS (65%); TERRORISM (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Ethics; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: BEARINGPOINT INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) Bearing Point Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) Randolph C Blazer; Paul Krugman; Jeb (Gov) Bush; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



324 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-10

U.S. Commander Revamps Interrogation Rules in Iraq
Under a barrage of international and domestic criticism, the top American commander in Iraq has barred virtually all coercive interrogation practices, like forcing prisoners to crouch for prolonged periods or depriving them of sleep, the Pentagon announced. A1

An American-run detention center outside Baghdad known as Camp Cropper was the site of numerous alleged abuses of Iraqi prisoners several months before the mistreatment of prisoners unfolded last fall at Abu Ghraib prison, according to documents and interviews. A1

Sudan War Hurts U.S. Economy
Poor villagers have suffered most from the war ravaging the arid west of Sudan. But distant as the conflict may seem, the armed men on horseback who loot and burn villages and brutalize the local population have also roiled corporate America. The attacks have begun to disrupt the collection of a rare tree sap, known as gum arabic, an essential ingredient in everything from soft drinks to beauty products and pharmaceuticals. A1

Vatican Scorns Mixed Marriage
The Vatican, in an official church document, discouraged marriage between Catholics and Muslims, especially Catholic women and Muslim men. A2

Israel Widens Patrol Zone
Israel will substantially widen an Army-patrolled zone at the southern end of the Gaza Strip near the border with Egypt, a step that will involve demolishing Palestinian buildings, a senior Israeli official said. A3

British Newspaper Editor Fired
The editor of The Daily Mirror, Piers Morgan, who published photos that the paper contended were of a hooded Iraqi man being beaten, kicked and urinated on by British soldiers, was dismissed by the newspaper's owners. The firing came a day after a government investigation concluded that the pictures had been faked. A8

NATIONAL 11-14, 18

Democrats Urge McCain To Join Kerry Campaign
Some prominent Democrats are angling for Senator John McCain to run for vice president alongside Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts -- despite Mr. McCain's steadfast resistance. A1

Berg Not Linked to Qaeda
Federal officials said they were satisfied that Nicholas Berg, the 27-year-old American decapitated in Iraq, had no links with terrorism, even though his computer password was apparently used by the Qaeda suspect Zacarias Moussaoui. A11

About 400 people gathered at a synagogue near Philadelphia for a memorial service in honor of Mr. Berg. A11

Questions in Terror Case
A federal appeals court has demanded that Justice Department prosecutors explain their ''arguably inconsistent'' statements about their involvement in the interrogation of Al Qaeda terrorists. A14

T. Rex to Be Auctioned
Hundreds of fossilized bones from a T. Rex are to be sold Sunday in what is billed as the biggest auction of natural history items. A11

EDUCATION

More Students Choosing G.E.D.
Roughly one of every seven high school diplomas granted in the United States in recent years has gone to someone who has passed the tests for the general equivalency diploma. And the proportion of school-age students taking that route has risen sharply. A14

OBITUARIES A15

LeRoy Myers
A dancer, who was one of the last of the Copasetics veteran tap ensemble, he was 84. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New Plan Announced For Emergency Agencies
The Bloomberg administration has announced that its emergency agencies had reached a formal agreement that details how they plan to coordinate their response to major disasters. The protocols came under attack from fire union officials and several emergency response experts. B1

Rowland Asked to Testify
The House committee investigating Connecticut Gov. John G. Rowland will ask the governor to appear as its first witness in public hearings, setting the stage for the governor to decide if he will publicly address questions of corruption that have prompted an impeachment inquiry. B1

Torture Survivors Fearful
Of the survivors of foreign torture now living in the United States, about a quarter of them are said to live in the New York area. These survivors are now encountering a new dimension of fear in light of the recently released photos from Abu Ghraib. B1

Religion Journal B6

ARTS & IDEAS B9-17

Memorial Suffers Setback
Two of the New York City's top financiers said they had declined to become co-chairmen of the World Trade Center Site Memorial Foundation, a fund-raising arm of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation that was created to raise money for a memorial and cultural buildings at the site. A1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

Nets, Wolves Move Ahead
The New Jersey Nets won 127-120 against the Detroit Pistons in triple overtime, giving the Nets a three-games-to-two lead in the four-of-seven-game Eastern Conference semifinal series. In the Western Conference, the Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Sacramento Kings 86-74 and lead the series three games to two. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Criminal Inquiry at Nortel
A federal grand jury in Texas has subpoenaed financial documents from Nortel Networks as part of a criminal investigation, the latest inquiry into accounting irregularities at the telecommunications giant. C1

Small Jump in Consumer Prices
Consumer prices crept up in April, rising by only 0.2 percent, the government reported. But the report also suggested that inflation had probably accelerated in May. C1

Approval for Biotech Corn
The European Union appears ready to approve a genetically engineered corn, ending a six-year moratorium on approvals for biotechnology crops that led to a bitter trade dispute with the United States. C1

Stocks End Week Lower
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.13 points, to 10,012.87. The Nasdaq composite index fell 21.78 points, to 1,904.25. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: America adrift in Iraq; a quiet victory for civil rights; saving wild salmon.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (71%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); MARRIAGE (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (61%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SOFT DRINKS (53%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SUDAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



325 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Americas: Cuba: Castro Leads Anti-U.S. March

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Hundreds of thousands of Cubans marched with Fidel Castro past the American diplomatic mission in Havana, chanting support for the Cuban leader while depicting President Bush as Hitler for moving to tighten the 44-year embargo of the island. Posters bore swastikas and portrayed Mr. 
Bush in a Nazi uniform with a Hitler mustache. Mr. Castro began the six-hour demonstration with denunciations and ridicule of Mr. Bush, saying the president was fraudulently elected and trying to impose ''world tyranny.''
 He then led the crowd -- students, workers, parents toting children on their shoulders and elderly couples all shouting ''Long live free Cuba! Fascist Bush!'' -- past the mission. Mr. Castro, 77, appeared to walk with some difficulty, favoring a leg, as he led the march for about 800 yards before getting into a waiting car. In an example of the worldwide fallout of the Iraqi prisoner scandal, organizers distributed signs printed with photos of abused Iraqis and the words, ''This would never happen in Cuba.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); POLITICS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%) Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States Foreign Service; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Cuba; Havana (Cuba)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



326 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Inflation Worries Hold Major Markets in Check

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue chips ended slightly higher yesterday, while the Nasdaq composite index retreated, as worries about oil prices at 21-year highs and rising interest rates tempered positive earnings and economic data that underscored the economy's strength. 
 The Altria Group propped up the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, helped by a brokerage upgrading. Cisco Systems and Dell were the biggest drags on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq. 
 Dell said Thursday that its earnings were held back by computer memory prices, and analysts worried that the trend would affect results in future quarters. 
 The major market benchmarks notched their third straight week of losses, bringing them near their 2004 lows. All three gauges are also in negative territory for the year. 
 Crude oil for June delivery hit $41.56 a barrel, the highest price since the New York Mercantile Exchange began trading crude oil futures 21 years ago. Worries about the gasoline supply continued to sustain the energy market's long rally, traders said. The NYMEX June crude oil futures contract eventually settled at $41.38 a barrel.
 The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 2.13 points, or 0.02 percent, to 10,012.87, while the broader S.&P. 500 index fell 0.74 point, or 0.07 percent, to 1,095.70. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 21.78 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,904.25. 
 Traders said volume was relatively muted, and cautioned against reading too much into the market's moves. 
 ''Volume today is very light,'' said Michael O'Hare, head of block trading at Lehman Brothers. ''We're not seeing a lot of market participation.'' 
 The broader S.&P. 500 was also having difficulty breaking through 1,100, seen by market players as a technically significant resistance level, Mr. O'Hare said. 
 On the economics front, consumer prices outside the energy sector rose in April, heightening expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates as early as next month. 
 For the week, the Dow fell 1 percent, the S.&P. 500 declined 0.3 percent, and the Nasdaq dropped 0.7 percent. 
 Shares of Altria, the parent company of the cigarette maker Philip Morris USA, added 98 cents, or 2 percent, to $49.88, after UBS raised its rating on the food and tobacco company to neutral from reduce. 
 Kohl's shares gained, a day after it reported its quarterly earnings rose slightly and it delivered an upbeat earnings forecast for the second quarter and backed its full-year view. Shares of Kohl, the department store operator, rose 94 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $43.57. 
 Nortel Networks topped the New York Stock Exchange's most actively traded list, after it said a grand jury subpoenaed records as part of a criminal investigation. Shares of Nortel, North America's largest maker of telecommunications equipment, slid 23 cents, or 6 percent, to $3.57.
 The subpoena comes after Nortel fired its chief executive and two other executives last month during an investigation into accounting problems. 
 On the Nasdaq, Dell shares fell $1.08, or 3 percent, to $34.72. On Thursday, Dell reported that its quarterly revenue jumped 21 percent and earnings rose 22 percent, but Wall Street analysts had hoped for slightly better results. 
 Cisco System's stock dropped 52 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $21.24.
 Treasury prices rallied yesterday as investors said bonds had become cheap after a two-month sell-off. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.77 percent from 4.85 percent on Thursday. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1 1/32, to 98 14/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 5.49 percent from 5.56 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BONDS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (67%); RETAILERS (62%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); GRAND JURY (60%); SUBPOENAS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (83%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



327 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Taking Niche Approach To Many Flights

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Passengers who sit in the business-class section on American Airlines' daily flight from Boston to Manchester, England, beginning today may notice that something is missing: business-class service. 
 American's all-coach-class experiment on the route, a major departure from industry practice for scheduled trans-Atlantic flights, is the latest in an industry trend toward niche marketing. 
 American, the largest airline, assumes that nearly all its Manchester-bound passengers at this time of year are leisure travelers paying coach fares, and that filling the plane with them is a better bet than laying on premium service for a business-class section that might go mostly unsold. 
 Other airlines are also increasingly tailoring service to specific market niches, sometimes to an extraordinary degree. Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines have made some flights all business class. Air France has even created a specialized airline, called Dedicate, to cater to a narrow group of business travelers: engineers and executives in the construction and oil and gas industries, who must often get to out-of-the-way places where tourists rarely tread. 
 These efforts are in addition to the subsidiaries that some of the major traditional airlines have started to compete with low-fare rivals. Delta Air Lines has Song, for example, and United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corporation, has Ted, both meant to attract price-conscious domestic leisure travelers, the niche exploited very profitably by JetBlue and its peers.
 ''For the first time, airlines are sitting down and looking at their assets, and trying to figure out the best way to deploy them,'' said Darin Lee, senior managing economist with LECG, a law and economics consulting group in Cambridge, Mass.
 In the past, Mr. Lee said, airlines fell into two clear categories, full service and low fare, and passengers knew exactly what to expect from each. Now those lines are blurring. The old full-service airlines are becoming less so, the no-frills carriers are adding some frills, and both are varying their offerings more from route to route and flight to flight. 
 For example, American's service to Manchester will now resemble a low-fare airline's in many ways. American is using a narrow-body Boeing 757 jet on a trans-Atlantic route for the first time in a decade; the last effort was quickly abandoned because first-and business-class passengers wanted more room for their full fares. But that is not an issue this time. 
 American is not removing the big, wide business-class seats from the front of the cabin, at least not yet. They will be given to frequent fliers and to those paying full coach fares. But the meals, movies and other amenities will be the same throughout the plane.
 ''We'll have to see how it goes,'' said Daniel P. Garton, executive vice president for marketing at the AMR Corporation, American's parent. An American spokesman said bookings were in line with the airline's expectations, but declined to be more specific.
 Whether adding frills or removing them, airlines are basing many of their moves on the experiences of more successful rivals. American executives said they were fascinated by the cost-cutting tactics of Ryanair, the discount Irish airline owned by Ryanair Holdings. ''They've really gone to scorched earth,'' Mr. Garton said.
 Ryanair is stripping every bit of weight and complexity that it can from the fleet of Boeing 737's it plans to use on its shortest flights, hoping to save hundreds of thousands of dollars in operating costs for each plane. Out come the window blinds, the reclining seats and even the seatback pockets that hold emergency instruction cards, airsickness bags and airline magazines. 
 Other discount airlines are looking upmarket. ATA Airlines, a unit of ATA Holdings, plans to add a business class to its planes by the end of the year, following AirTran, a unit of AirTran Holdings. Ted, United's discount start-up, also offers a premium service, called economy plus. 
 Along with optimizing costs and revenue, these airlines and others are trying to stake out a distinct brand identity, and to avoid being seen as equivalent to and interchangeable with rivals. ''Everybody in the industry is trying to differentiate themselves,'' said Joanne Smith, vice president for marketing at Song, the low-fare carrier started last year by Delta Air Lines.
 In American's case, the strategy will vary from route to route. Even as it strips down its Manchester flights, it plans to add features for high-fare passengers on others, and is studying ways to customize its services using its Web site. One idea is to let fliers rent DVD players and select films in advance, with the player and disks awaiting them as they board. The airline may also try allowing passengers to order meals before boarding from a wider menu than the usual chicken or beef, said Henry C. Joyner, American's vice president for strategy.
 Song's approach has been to try to attract women, who make up the majority of adult leisure travelers and who generally book vacations for their families, Ms. Smith said. ''Once you win the hearts of women, you know they'll talk about it,'' she said. ''They'll become evangelists for the brand.''
 To that end, Song dresses its flight attendants, male and female, in uniforms designed by Kate Spade in its signature lime green and charcoal gray, colors chosen to stand out in an industry that tends to stick conservatively to red, white and navy blue. Song has also sought to set itself apart with the variety of merchandise it sells on board, including martinis freshly shaken at seat side, fine candy and meals made with organic ingredients. The newest offerings include a low-carbohydrate roast beef wrap sandwich and a low-carb cocktail of Bacardi rum and Diet Coke.
 As fast as airlines innovate, however, competitors can copy. After JetBlue won customers' praise for its seatback entertainment system, Frontier, Ted, Song and other airlines quickly installed similar systems. Even the famously frugal Southwest Airlines acknowledged pressure to match the idea, though it has not decided to do so.
 Mr. Lee, the economist, said that passengers can expect the airlines to keep experimenting with services tailored to all kinds of market niches, whether sumptuous, Spartan or between.
 ''These segments are a moving target,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: American Airlines is using a narrow-body Boeing 757 for its experimental all-coach-class flights from Boston to Manchester, England, in an effort to attract leisure travelers and compete with low-cost airlines. (Photo by American Airlines)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AIR FARES (90%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); TRENDS (71%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (70%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); LECG CORP (65%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); BOEING CO (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (90%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); C6L (SGX) (56%); AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (91%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); SINGAPORE (76%) Boston (Mass); Manchester (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2004



328 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 11; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Why a Job Hopper Needs Sure Footing

BYLINE: By CHERYL DAHLE

 BODY:

Q. With the economy in a half-hearted rebound, it's tempting to consider leaving a miserable job for something better. But should you move just because you can? How many times can you change jobs after two- or three-year stints before you get a reputation as someone who jumps around too much?

A. How often you jump typically matters less than why. Are the job changes logical progressions in a coherent career path -- one that can be articulated in an interview? Or are they just part of a chase for fat salary increases and juicy promotions?
 ''If you have a good story line about how your moves are part of an overall plan for developing your skills and competencies, it doesn't really matter,'' said Wendy Wallbridge, president of On Your Mark Corporate Coaching and Consulting in San Raphael, Calif.

Q. So any amount of job hopping is O.K.?

A. Well, no. Any tenure under a year on a resume starts to look suspect, Ms. Wallbridge said. It can give the appearance of a gnat-sized attention span, or trouble with committing. A company wants to ensure that it will get some value out of an applicant before she disappears like a plate of cupcakes at a 5-year-old's birthday party. And keep in mind that in some professions, like medicine, staying put for some time is crucial to building a practice.

Q. What are some good ways to explain a series of job changes?

A. The best reason to move on is the opportunity to develop new skills. Dawn Wells Nadeau, 30, an executive event planner in Manhattan, has had seven jobs since she graduated from Wellesley College in 1995. Ms. Nadeau began her career in business consulting. She moved into event planning, first at Fast Company magazine and then at Fortune. She also had a stint as vice president for executive training and development at Goldman Sachs.
 ''I've felt like I've been building a portfolio of experiences,'' Ms. Nadeau said. ''Each move has broadened my experience and made me a better, more nuanced performer. I have always thought of my jobs as gigs. Once I mastered the primary challenge of the position, it was time to move on.'' 

Q. Don't employers become miffed when you leave so soon?

A. In Ms. Nadeau's case, no. Today, she runs her own event consulting company, eos studios -- an entrepreneurial venture that would not have succeeded without connections from previous jobs. Several clients are previous employers. One key to preserving relationships is to time the leaps so employers aren't left in the lurch on big projects.

Q. Is it necessary to keep moving around to find new challenges?

A. No, Ms. Wallbridge says. If your company is large enough, great opportunities may lie in a different department or office. The trick is to learn how to jump internally, by networking in the company and not relying on corporate human resources. ''These days, companies are more fluid and project driven,'' she said. ''It's like making movies. People come together, churn out a product and then move on to the next thing. It's up to you to know what the hot projects are in your company -- and how to get assigned to them.''

Q. How do you land the coveted Spielbergesque projects?

A. You have to know the power players in your company and develop relationships with them. And you have to market yourself in a way that matches the specific needs those players have for their teams.
 Cynthia Klustner, 51, recently wanted to jump internally at Hewlett-Packard. Ms. Klustner, a senior finance executive, had been with Hewlett for 24 years and had held 15 positions. But after the company merged with Compaq, Ms. Klustner's job was disappearing. Her choices were to leave the company or to move to the East Coast from Palo Alto, Calif. 
 Ms. Klustner wanted a third option. First, she worked with her coach, Ms. Wallbridge, to market herself in the broadest terms possible, incorporating her finance background but highlighting her leadership and managerial skills. Then she went hunting for the hidden openings in Palo Alto with the power-player teams.

Q. That's easier said than done. How?

A. Lots of lunching. Ms. Klustner came up with a list of top executives who had insight into multiple divisions. Their referrals led to more lunches. Ultimately, she wound up talking to an executive who had just accepted a request for a sabbatical from a high-level employee. The job hadn't been listed or announced anywhere. Ms. Klustner was hired for that job, the director of finance and operations for Hewlett-Packard's real estate division, overseeing $3.5 billion of land and building assets in 69 countries and 1,100 locations -- and she was able to stay put.

Q. Is there a stigma attached to staying with one company for years?

A. Not if you manage your jobs the way Ms. Klustner did, taking on new roles and new responsibilities regularly. What you want to avoid is parking at a company -- particularly one that isn't performing well -- for years in the same job, Ms. Wallbridge said.
 Whether or not you decide to change jobs, your goal should be the same: having a development plan that is in your best interest in the long term.
 ''The No.1 skill to develop in this day and age is career self-reliance,'' Ms. Wallbridge said. ''You can't just live by an arbitrary set of rules that says, 'Hop,' or 'Don't hop.' Nor can you rely on the human resources department to look out for you. You have to be your own best advocate.''

Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (70%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%) Labor

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Cheryl Dahle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



329 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 8; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Turn Risk Into a Safety Net

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN

 BODY:
STOCKS are still awfully pricey, at least by historical standards. And with interest rates rising, bonds may be primed for a fall. That could add up to a nasty one-two punch for the average portfolio. So, many financial advisers say it may be time to start looking into alternatives like hedge funds as well as mutual funds that invest in real estate and commodities. 
 At first blush, the idea sounds counterintuitive. After all, commodities are not exactly risk-free. But the goal is to decrease overall risk by including asset classes that may be dicey in themselves but are unlikely to move in the same direction as stocks and bonds. For example, when inflation picks up, stock and bond returns tend to fall, but commodities and real estate tend to do well.
 ''If you can find an asset that is not highly correlated with the stock market and it has a good shot at delivering decent returns, adding it to your portfolio can increase your overall return without increasing risk, even if the asset is risky on its own,'' said Ben Inker, director of asset allocation at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo, which manages $60 billion in traditional and alternative investments in Boston. 
 Alternative investments have worked well for David and Karan Richardson of Tewksbury Township, N.J. In June 2000, they added real-estate funds to their seven-figure nest egg, on the advice of Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer at RegentAtlantic Capital, a wealth management firm in Chatham, N.J. 
 ''The alternatives cushioned our portfolio very nicely in 2001 and 2002,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''We saw a decline in capital, but it was not as bad as the stock indexes.'' 
 Last year, the couple added a hedge fund to their investments, and they are now considering commodities. That would raise their commitment to alternatives to RegentAtlantic's recommended 20 percent. 
 Mr. Cordaro's firm found that including alternative assets in a basic stock and bond portfolio increased returns and cut down on volatility from 1994 through 2003. Researchers compared two portfolios. The first held 60 percent of its assets in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and 40 percent in the Lehman Intermediate Government/Credit Bond index. The second kept a total of 20 percent of its assets in the Wilshire REIT index, the Dow Jones AIG Commodities index and the Credit Suisse First Boston Tremont Hedge Fund index, with the remaining 80 percent divided between the S.&P. 500 (48 percent) and the Lehman bond index (32 percent). 
 The portfolio using the alternative assets would have returned 10.1 percent a year, versus 9.6 percent for the basic portfolio. Moreover, returns of the portfolio with alternatives were less volatile than those of the traditional one. None of the returns included costs of making the investments.
 ''It's like adding a steam engine to a sailing ship,'' Mr. Cordaro said. ''Alternatives not only provide ballast, but another source of power.'' 
 This view is not held universally. Some investors, particularly those with less wealth, should avoid alternative investments because they can be volatile and hard to trade, said John Ueleke, president of Legacy Wealth Management, an investment advisory firm in Memphis.
 Commodities like gold, oil and pork bellies are notorious for their violent price swings, while hedge funds, most of which are unregistered investment vehicles, have been known to blow up. 
 ''These nontraditional investments by their very nature are not suitable for individuals,'' Mr. Ueleke said. He limits alternatives to the 20 percent of his clients who have at least $1.5 million in assets. For them, he recommends a 15 percent to 20 percent allocation to alternatives.
 Still, in recent years, mutual funds and registered hedge funds have given people with relatively modest portfolios easy access to some of these investments. The big benefit of funds, of course, is diversification. 
 Mutual funds specializing in real estate investment trusts, for example, have returned 13.8 percent, annualized, in the three years through Thursday, according to Morningstar Inc., versus a loss of 2.6 percent for the S.&P. 500.
 Given the improved economy and the small supply of new real estate investment trusts, or REIT's, real estate funds should continue to provide good income and portfolio diversification benefits, said Dan McNeela, senior analyst at Morningstar. But some advisers worry that real estate funds may be overvalued.
 And they advise caution with funds that provide exposure to commodities -- including Oppenheimer Real Asset and Pimco Commodity Real Return. Their returns can be very volatile: the Oppenheimer fund, created in March 1997, reported a loss of 44.85 percent in 1998, a gain of 44 percent in 2000 and a loss of 31.35 percent in 2001. Last year, it soared 22.6 percent. The Pimco fund, started in November 2002, also rocketed last year, up 29.1 percent.
 While commodities can be great hedges against inflation, investors are advised to keep their allocation to such funds to no more than 10 percent, Mr. McNeela said. 
 The benefit of funds of hedge funds, an even newer alternative, is that they are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which makes their operations more transparent, and they invest in as many as three dozen other hedge funds, which helps diminish the risk from any one fund. 
 Among registered hedge funds that have piqued advisers' interest are the Undiscovered Managers Multi-Strategy fund, which requires a $40,000 minimum investment, and the Rydex Sphinx fund, which requires a $25,000 minimum and is intended to track the S.& P. Hedge Fund Index. Traditional, unregistered hedge funds may impose minimums of $1 million or more. 
 One problem with funds of funds is a layering of fees. Hedge fund managers typically take 20 percent of returns above a benchmark, plus an annual management fee of 1 to 2 percent. Generally, the manager of the fund of funds levies its own fees on top of that. 
 INDEED, while these new investment vehicles provide opportunity for individuals to invest in alternatives, some analysts say that they're not worth it. 
 ''We are in agreement with people who feel you should be looking outside traditional asset classes,'' said Jeremy DeGroot, director of mutual fund research at Litman/Gregory Asset Management, a registered investment adviser in Orinda, Calif. ''But the reality is there are very, very few funds that meet our standards for investing.'' 
 The problems, he said, are that they have short performance histories, their expenses are high or their managers are reluctant to reveal too much about their strategies.
 Eleanor Blayney, a certified financial planner at Sullivan, Bruyette, Speros & Blayney in McLean, Va., has also found practical hurdles to investing in alternatives like commodities and hedge funds. And she said she was concerned that REIT's were overvalued.''While the idea of alternatives makes a lot of sense,'' Ms. Blayney said, ''we find they're very difficult and expensive.'' 
 She has focused on opportunities in subsectors of the traditional markets like small-cap and emerging-markets stocks, high-yield bonds and foreign government bonds. 
 Similarly, Mr. Ueleke advises those who are willing to take risks but have limited funds to focus on areas like small-cap international and microcap stock funds, which invest in the smallest public companies. ''That's where people should start,'' he said. ''Then, when their portfolio is large enough, they can move on to alternatives.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eleanor Blayney, left, says alternative investments like commodities and hedge funds can be ''very difficult and expensive.'' But David and Karan Richardson, right, say such investments can cushion a portfolio. (Photo by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for the New York Times)Chart: ''Weighing the Alternatives''In a comparison of two portfolios from 1994 through 2003, the addition of alternative investments -- in hedge funds, real estate and commodities -- reduced volatility and delivered a higher annualized return.Traditional portfolioSTOCKS -- S.& P. 500 index: 60%BONDS -- Lehman Intermediate Government/Credit Bond index: 40%Results1994 through 2003AVERAGE VOLATILITY+: 11.8 %ANNUALIZED RETURN*: 9.6%Alternative portfolioCOMMODITIES -- Dow Jones AIG Commodities index: 4%HEDGE FUNDS -- Credit Suisse First Boston Tremont Hedge Fund index: 8%REAL ESTATE -- Wilshire REIT index: 8%BONDS: 32%STOCKS: 48%Results1994 through 2003AVERAGE VOLATILITY+: 10.3 %ANNUALIZED RETURN*: 10.1 %* Returns do not include trading costs.+ Annual standard deviation.(Source by RegentAtlantic Capital)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); GRANTHAM MAYO VAN OTTERLOO LLC (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: Virginia Munger Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



330 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1; Lotus Finally Lines Up a New Car for America

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Elise Is a Lightweight On Scales, Not Track

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: Birmingham, Ala. 

 BODY:
EVERY few seconds a baby boomer turns 50, demographic experts say. That's a lot of potential midlife crises, and few things soothe middle-age angst better than a fast, low-slung, open-air sports car.
 A car, in other words, like the Lotus Elise, which goes on sale next month. American boomers have already noted the Elise's impending arrival by making deposits for most of the 2,000-plus cars to be imported in the 2005 model year, according to Lotus Cars USA. 
 Devotees of Lotus, the legendary British sports car maker, have waited a long time for the $41,000 Elise, which has been thrilling Europeans since 1996 but until now was not certified for the United States. Lotus's American operation has been hobbling along with only the larger, more expensive ($90,825) Esprit V-8, which has gone out of production after 28 years. (You may recall the Esprit that turned into a submarine in ''The Spy Who Loved Me,'' a 1977 James Bond film.) 
 If you concluded that frequent model changes aren't a priority, you'd be right. The Elise is the first new Lotus to reach America since the Elan arrived in 1991, and it is the cornerstone of the company's expansion plans. Indeed, fully half of all the cars to be built this year will end up in American hands.
 Through the death of its founder, Colin Chapman, and a succession of owners, Lotus lost its way. But the Elise suggests a return to Lotus's core values, for it epitomizes what made the company famous: heavyweight performance through featherweight components.
 At 1,975 pounds, the rear-drive Elise is truly svelte -- far lighter than either the diminutive Mazda MX-5 Miata (2,387 pounds) or the Honda S2000 (2,835 pounds). The Elise is so trim partly because it is so small. Less than 44 inches tall, it is 5 inches lower than the Miata. And with an overall length of 149 inches, it is shorter than any mass market car in America save one. (The Mini Cooper is just 142.8 inches long.)
 The chassis is made of extruded aluminum -- that is, the alloy is squeezed into shape, like pushing toothpaste from a tube -- and weighs a mere 150 pounds. Thin, light composites make up the body, and more weight is saved by glueing the pieces together.
 The four-cylinder engine, situated midship behind the seats, and six-speed manual transmission are borrowed from the Toyota Celica GT-S, a significantly heavier car. The dual-overhead-cam engine displaces 1.8 liters, and it permits the Elise to meet American emissions requirements. The Rover engine used in Europe could not be certified in the United States, the main obstacle that has kept the Elise from coming here sooner. 
 Front air bags were added to meet American safety standards. The car does not have side bags.
 In the Elise, the Toyota engine produces 190 horsepower and 138 pounds-foot of torque, less than the S2000's 240 horsepower. But with its lower weight, the Elise rockets from a dead stop to 60 miles an hour in 4.9 seconds, Lotus says, and has a top speed of 150 miles an hour. Yet the Elise delivers an estimated 26 m.p.g. in city driving and 37 m.p.g. on the highway, better than a lot of so-called economy cars. 
 The Elise has had a face-lift since it made its debut, and it has a decidedly buglike appearance, its large, bulging headlamps looking like the eyes of ''The Fly.'' The sides are cinched in to form air scoops, and the rear has a purposeful athletic look. The 14 available paints include the typical red, yellow and silver along with ''lifestyle colors'' like Krypton green.
 The Elise comes with a canvas top that lifts off and fits in the small trunk (4 cubic feet) at the rear of the car. An optional hardtop is $1,475.
 While I think the Elise is (pardon me) cute, I was intimidated by the prospect of driving it on the track of the Barber Motorsports Park here, where Lotus made early examples available for testing.
 The apprehension starts before you get in. One doesn't just jump behind the wheel. Instead, because of the very low roofline when the top is in place, one carefully ducks and lowers oneself into the seat much as a professional racer gets into a car. Exiting requires ducking under the roof before standing upright; while at the track I saw a lot of drivers whack their heads.
 The cabin, in the vein of a barebones weekend racer, has no frills. The door panels and floor are bare, exposing the aluminum skeleton, and there are no cup holders, no power outlets, no tilt steering wheel. For that matter, the Elise does not come with power steering or an automatic transmission, not to mention its lack of high-tech systems like traction control and stability sensors. But air-conditioning is standard, along with a Blaupunkt AM-FM-CD stereo and antilock brakes.
 The molded seats adjust back and forward only, and they won't accommodate aging boomers who have bulked up around the middle and bottom. Nor are the closely spaced pedals designed for big feet. 
 Nevertheless, at 5-foot-2 I fit perfectly in the seat, and my small feet had no problem with the pedals.
 The Elise comes to life with the push of a starter button. Engineers designed the exhaust tone to be louder and throatier than the one in European versions, and it is an appropriate note for the character of the car.
 Despite my initial apprehension, I found the Elise surprisingly easy to drive -- and enormously fun. At the Birmingham track, the first exercise was to speed around a curving course to get a feel for the handling. The car's tiny dimensions allowed it to squeeze through the course's sharp hairpin turns and tight lanes. Nimble defines the Elise.
 Next, I headed to the park's racetrack, used for sports car and motorcycle races as well as for Porsche's driving school. The Elise felt at home on the 2.3 miles of track with its hills, sweeping bends and blind turns. It stuck like superglue to the asphalt even through pouring rain and hail. The Elise has the instant reactions of a Go-Kart: turn the wheel and the car goes precisely and immediately where it is pointed.
 Then it was off for real-world driving on the slow-moving country roads around the complex. Sitting a scant six inches above the pavement, I felt every pothole and bump. After confidently racing around the track, I felt humbled as S.U.V.'s and tractor-trailers towered overhead.
 The Elise feels most at home on the track, and it is best viewed as a weapon for weekend racers. Whether one sees the car as an expensive toy or a bargain-basement Ferrari depends on what you compare it with.
 The Elise starts at $40,780 including shipping. A $1,350 touring package adds leather seats, electric windows, carpeting, sound deadening, an insulated top and an upgraded audio system with CD and MP3 players. A sport package adds forged alloy wheels, special Yokohama tires and a track-tuned suspension. Other extras include the hardtop and special paint. Compared with a Porsche 911 or a Ferrari Modena, the Elise is a deal. 
 But for spoiled boomers who like being pampered with heated seats and automatic transmissions, there are less expensive ways to go topless. The Miata, starting at $23,000, and the S2000, at $34,000, are easier to live with every day. And for those who rarely or never venture onto a track, those cars may soothe the aches of middle age just as well.

INSIDE TRACK: If the toy fits, wear it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The tiny, agile Lotus Elise is finally coming to the United States, thanks to a Toyota engine that satisfies American emissions requirements. (Photo by Rick Dole)(pg. 1)
 The Elise looks buglike, and with a 0-to-60 time of 4.9 seconds, it can fly. (Photo by Rick Dole)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



331 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: India's Communists Seek Capitalist Help

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: CALCUTTA 

 BODY:
On a recent Friday morning, Buddhadev Bhattacharjee, chief minister of West Bengal State and a senior leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), met with an executive from an icon of American capitalism, the I.B.M. Corporation.
 ''Outsourcing is a must in this era of globalization, and we want to take advantage of this opportunity,'' Mr. Bhattacharjee told the corporate executive. ''We want you to help us.'' 
 I.B.M. is one of a half dozen multinational corporations that have set up shop recently in West Bengal, a state governed by Communists for 26 years. They are part of Mr. Bhattacharjee's unorthodox effort to create a ''new Calcutta'' of software parks, factories and American-style malls whose development will be an example for the rest of India.
 ''I can humbly claim that our model is the best in the country,'' he said in an interview, a portrait of Lenin hanging on the wall behind him.
 [Unexpected results on Thursday in national elections suggested that this party -- one of three Communist parties in India -- could play a pivotal role in determining India's future economic policies. In an upset, an alliance led by the Congress Party leader, Sonia Gandhi, defeated Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's governing Hindu nationalist coalition.
 [The Congress alliance does not have enough seats to form a majority in Parliament and is expected to ask the Communists, who won a record 43 seats, to join its government. The Communists' showing made them the third largest party in Parliament.]
 At times, the Marxist party has taken stands that could discourage the foreign investment that has helped give India one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Mr. Bhattacharjee's Communists say that ''employment generation'' must be a focus of economic policy and that profit-making state enterprises should not be privatized. They also oppose the policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 ''The philosophy of the World Bank and I.M.F. is they want globalization in favor of the rich countries at the cost of third world countries,'' Mr. Bhattacharjee said. The United States and Europe should be forced to end their own agricultural subsides and open up their agricultural markets, he added, before poor countries do the same.
 He said his recipe for growth avoided the uneven development that plagued other parts of India, where high technology urban centers thrive and rural areas stagnate. Seventy percent of India's one billion people still live in the countryside and rely on agriculture for their livelihood. 
 In West Bengal, the party has enacted sweeping land reform for farmers, heavily invested in small-scale manufacturing and attracted capitalist titans like Pepsi, Mitsubishi and I.B.M.
 Mr. Bhattacharjee has also hired a team of consultants from the American firm McKinsey & Company to help attract foreign investors. He has convinced local Marxist labor unions to end nearly constant strikes that paralyzed the city. He also has encouraged investors to open glistening American-style malls, where young middle-class Indians buy Levi's jeans and Nike sneakers.
 The party's political opponents contend that it has sold out its principles, inflated its economic success and used coercion to dominate the state. Critics contend that opponents are ostracized and have even been killed.
 ''In the village, if you are against the Communists, no barber will cut your hair, a sort of social boycott,'' said Bobby F. Hakim, secretary for the Trinamool Congress, the state's main opposition party. ''They have totally destroyed this democratic system in West Bengal, especially the countryside.''
 Mr. Bhattacharjee's top aides can be dictatorial, controlling and arrogant, ordering visitors, for example, to stand in certain spots in the hall outside his office. At one Communist rally in the city, party cadres followed a journalist trying to interview voters. Clearly intimidated, residents refused to speak.
 Mr. Bhattacharjee attributed those actions to a handful of bad apples or people pretending to be party members. Despite 25 years in power, the party still polices itself well, he said.
 The failure of Communism in the Soviet Union stemmed from the party's unwillingness to accept dissent, he added, a mistake he said the Communists of West Bengal would not make. He smoothly pointed to his party's economic program as an example. Investment from leading Indian and Western computer companies has led to the creation of 20,000 new high technology jobs. He admitted that the number was tiny in a state with 80 million people but said that West Bengal's strong education system, pro-manufacturing policies and engineering colleges made it an ideal place for foreign companies to invest. 
 ''Globalization is a must,'' he said.
 But he says he advocates a form of globalization in which industries from rich and poor countries compete on a level economic playing field. He promises that socialism, just as Marx predicted, will eventually triumph over capitalism -- whose current dominance, he said, was a temporary situation that must be accepted and used.
 Mr. Bhattacharjee, 60, writes poetry and is an admirer of Fidel Castro, Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Noam Chomsky, but he criticizes fellow Marxists, saying some of them fail to accept new realities in the world. ''Dogma will not work,'' he said. ''Learn truth from the facts.''
 In his personal life, he says he remains a committed Communist. He dresses in a simple muslin dhoti, or loincloth, lives in a spartan one-bedroom apartment with his wife and daughter and never watches television, which he called the ''idiot box.'' He said he never visited Calcutta's new shopping malls.
 ''Consumerism leads to selfishness, cynicism and sometimes pessimism,'' he said. ''Michael Jackson: these are the typical products of consumerism.''
 A small, soft-spoken man with a shock of unruly white hair and round tortoise-shell glasses, he looks like the academic he once was, and he is credited with ushering younger leaders and new thinking into the party.
 Four years ago, Jyoti Basu, the Communist leader who led the party to dominance in West Bengal in the 1970's, appointed Mr. Bhattacharjee his successor. The Marxists are the only party in Indian history to have won six consecutive state elections. In the rest of the country, strong anti-incumbent sentiment typically sends parties packing after one or two terms in office.
 A few hours after meeting the I.B.M. executive, as he drove to a Communist political rally, he said the party's rural reforms were the key to its success. He said that India's economy could not take off, and the country could not become an economic power, until its countryside was developed.
 At the same time, foreign capitalists can be welcomed. ''China could not have eradicated poverty without the help of multinational corporations and foreign agencies,'' he said.
 As he spoke, his motorcade sped through a prosperous farming village where spray-painted hammers and sickles covered walls and men shouted, ''Long live the revolution!''
 Behind them were shops selling mobile phones, television sets and refrigerators.
 ''Poverty is not our goal,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Buddhadev Bhattacharjee, Communist leader in West Bengal. Calcutta is the state's capital. (Photo by Santosh Verma for The New York Times)Map of West Bengal highlighting Calcutta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (84%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TRENDS (70%); AGRICULTURE (60%) Labor; Strikes; Foreign Investments; Factories and Industrial Plants; Economic Conditions and Trends; Computers and the Internet; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal; Computer Software; Shopping Centers; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: M CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (72%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (58%) David Rohde; Buddhadev Bhattacharjee

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (93%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (96%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) India; West Bengal (India); Calcutta (India); India

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



332 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3255 words

HEADLINE: Steady Focus, Evolving Vision

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
IT was closing day, once again, at Nehemiah Housing as 13 quietly anxious families passed through an assembly line of folding tables, document checks and seemingly endless signatures in the living room and basement of a model row house on Hinsdale Street in the East New York section of Brooklyn.
 At the crowded but never chaotic scene unfolded 10 days ago, buyers took title to some of the last of 2,900 low-cost homes built in Brooklyn by Nehemiah, a housing program that grew out of a church-based organizing movement and brought several troubled neighborhoods back to life.
 Now as Nehemiah looks to the future, it is remaining remarkably true to its vision, but changing with the times as well. It will soon begin construction on a new round of row houses that are larger, more urban in feeling and more architecturally ambitious than earlier models, but will still be among the lowest-cost houses in the city.
 Five blocks away from the closing, on Williams Avenue, a row of 18-foot-wide houses of brick and aluminum siding silently awaited as the 13 families went through the final paperwork. Workers from Monadnock Builders meandered across the freshly sodded front lawns, resetting door locks, gathering stray trash and going through a final punch list of things to do. 
 There, at No. 674, was the new home of Pamela D. King and her 16-year-old daughter, Tiffany. Ms. King, a welfare supervisor, was so nervous about the closing that as she packed up the night before, she accidentally threw out the purchase checks. She found them after dumping all the trash on the kitchen floor.
 No. 680 was ready for Basil A. Clarke, an auditor with the Department of Education's food service division, and his wife, Hazel, a school cafeteria worker. Waiting for a seat at the title company table, Mr. Clarke said he could think only of finally escaping the drumbeat of noisy feet on the ceiling of his current fifth-floor apartment in East Flatbush.
 Pelham C. Van Cooten Jr., a programmer at the Department of Education, was looking forward to moving his wife and three children to No. 684. He could not help grinning from ear to ear as he waited with his attorney, Howard Chu, a lawyer from his union, District Council 37. He had kept the closing a secret at work and in his family, and was looking forward to surprising his parents and co-workers with the news that he finally owned his own home after three years of waiting. 
 Each house has three bedrooms, a backyard and 1,300 square feet of living space, and was about to be sold for about $85,000 plus a $20,000 city subsidy that will eventually have to be repaid. The sale price is a small fraction of the market value, even on the outer reaches of Brooklyn in East New York, where after decades of abandonment and decline, property values have soared in the last few years. Each new house was sold at cost, through a lottery, to a first-time home buyer, one with an income as low as $26,000. 
 The houses on Williams Avenue that were sold at the closing 10 days ago, were among the last of a batch of 700 homes built on what had been an abandoned wasteland west of Pennsylvania Avenue in East New York by Nehemiah, a housing program dating back to the 1980's that grew out of a church-based community organizing movement. To date, Nehemiah has built 2,900 houses in Brooklyn and has helped to develop 1,000 more in the South Bronx.
 Nehemiah and its parent organization, East Brooklyn Congregations, have been widely credited with restoring the economic and social stability of East New York and Brownsville, at a time when no one else would consider building there. Now private developers vie for small building sites once passed over by Nehemiah and put up market-rate houses without subsidies -- and at a profit.
 As it completes its third wave of housing construction, Nehemiah has remained remarkably true to the vision that led it to press City Hall to provide vacant, and all but worthless, city land for large swaths of small single-family houses, mass produced in Levittown fashion, without profit, so cheaply that even low-paid neighborhood people could afford them.
 But Nehemiah's vision is shifting with the times. Its houses are becoming more spacious, and emboldened by its successes, Nehemiah is broadening its approach and ambitions even as the church and community leaders say they are also remaining true to their original mission, empowering people in the neighborhood to control their own destinies.
 Although the group once tenaciously clung to the notion that home ownership itself, in the form of single-family homes, had a redemptive power that could transform a community, it is now planning a new development in Spring Creek, on the edge of East New York, that will include two- and three-family town houses as well. The new development, built on landfill, will include 843 homes that will be wider, at 20 feet, and larger and roomer than earlier models.

Forsaken Areas
From Empty Lots To Rows of Houses
 The first houses built by Nehemiah were austere, with plain brick fronts and small windows, designed by architects hired directly by the contractors. Cars were parked in front yards so owners could keep an eye on them.
 In contrast, for its next phase Nehemiah has hired its own architect, Alexander Gorlin, who has put together a sharply different vision for the new neighborhood. The facades have been redrawn with a new look of brick and colored panels that will vary from house to house. Front stoops are back, with cars relegated to rear yards. Still, as the ambitious project moves forward, the stress remains on keeping costs low.
 Nehemiah has moved from simple awe over the miracle of building anything at all, let alone blocks and blocks of houses in a neighborhood all but forsaken by the city government and the private market, to the hiring of Mr. Gorlin, who has written a book on the history of the town house and has designed luxury town houses and is designing an apartment for Daniel Libeskind, the master planner of the World Trade Center site. He talks about the new development as an exemplar of the ''the new urbanism'' and celebrates the return of the classic New York front stoop.
 ''We were very careful to create a sense of identity for each house so they blend together,'' Mr. Gorlin said of the evolving designs for the next Nehemiah homes. ''The sense of color enlivens the street and makes it more cheerful.''
 As vacant land in Brooklyn becomes scarce and expensive, Nehemiah is already planning several projects in which it will build low-cost midrise, four- to six-story, apartment houses on scattered vacant lots that will be operated as below-market-rate rental apartments.
 ''When we started here, there was nothing but empty lots -- we are talking about total devastation,'' said Msgr. John Peyton of St. Rita Roman Catholic Church on Shepherd Avenue in East New York, co-chairman of East Brooklyn Congregations. ''We developed a community that supported itself and all that was around it. The mission has never changed; the mission is about people, the process was housing.''
 Over the last two decades, the city has seen the resurgence of entire neighborhoods, as thousands of city-owned properties have been restored or rebuilt, creating or fixing 200,000 homes, according to city officials, making the devastation of the past a distant memory.

Church-Based Group
A Plan to Revive Dying Areas
 The story of Nehemiah begins just beyond this horizon, before this resurgence began, as church leaders, struggling to find ways of stabilizing Brownsville and East New York, banded together and adopted the organizing techniques of Saul Alinsky, the legendary Chicago community organizer. 
 East New York, an immigrant working-class neighborhood with a mix of wood-frame houses and brick apartment buildings, had gone through a period of steep decline -- white flight, followed by housing abandonment, followed by arson fires that destroyed what was left on many blocks. In 1970 to 1980 East New York lost one out of six residents and 5,000 households, according to census figures compiled by the Department of City Planning. As organizers held a series of meetings across the neighborhood, they found that housing was the most pressing priority after crime.
 In early 1980's the group began working with I. D. Robbins, a builder and civic reformer who had advocated building very-low-cost row houses, affordable to families with modest incomes. With the help of church leaders -- and a promise of construction funds from Catholic, Lutheran, Baptist and Episcopal church groups -- the group began pressing Mayor Edward I. Koch for land to support the plan. 
 Nehemiah, now formally known as the Nehemiah Housing Development Fund Corporation, was born. It was named for the Old Testament prophet who called for a new Jerusalem to be built on the site of the old. The group sold their first homes in Brownsville in 1984, for $39,500. Construction in East New York began in 1987.

Nehemiah's Vision
First-Time Buyers In Low-Cost Homes
 From the first, Nehemiah had a distinctive development strategy. It sought to build only single-family row homes to create a sense of neighborhood ownership. It built in large batches, using a single developer, to cut costs to the bone -- pouring a single foundation for an entire block, for example. By building on large sites, the group hoped to create a critical mass of homeowners large enough to change the character and culture of an area.
 And while other groups were scrambling for federal grants and local subsidies, Nehemiah rejected outright government handouts as a matter of principle and insisted that any subsidies be in the form of loans. Prices were kept low and profit eliminated.
 While other groups look to provide housing for a mix of income groups in a neighborhood, Nehemiah was content to provide the lowest-price housing it could for first-time home buyers, according to Michael Gecan, a senior organizer with the Metro Industrial Areas Foundation, who began working with the East Brooklyn churches in 1980. 
 ''We believe that the highest value is creating ownership at the starter level,'' he said. ''That is exactly the place where there has been less of a commitment in a lot of new construction.''
 This is in sharp contrast to the New York City Housing Partnership, which has sponsored more than 18,000 subsidized houses since it was established in the early 1980's. Kathryn S. Wylde, who ran the housing partnership program for many years, said it was designed to create a housing market and attract private builders and private investment in neighborhoods that had been ignored for 50 years. 
 Under the program, builders received subsidies and low-cost land, in exchange for limited returns. Ms. Wylde is now president of the housing partnership's parent organization, the Partnership for New York City. New two-family houses built under the program sell for $270,000 to $360,000, city officials say.
 Shawn Donovan, the new commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, did a study comparing the two programs while at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. He said that while Nehemiah set a goal of empowering the community through home ownership, the partnership set a goal of developing and empowering a new generation of home builders. 
 ''The means to the end was home ownership,'' he said. ''The ends were quite different.'' 
 But for Nehemiah homeowners, the decision to take a chance on East New York was sometimes a difficult one.
 It was with some trepidation that Robert James, a project manager with I.B.M., paid $71,000 in 1990 for a 1,100-square-foot house on Barbey Street in the first round of Nehemiah houses built in East New York. He had visited the area in the past and remembered being intimidated by the vagrants, drug addicts and others hanging around abandoned buildings in the area. ''All of that stuff kind of disappeared,'' once the houses started going up, he said.
 And his house and block have changed, too, since he moved in. On a block once spare and plain, neighbors have put up fences of iron or brick, sometimes with pillars topped with pyramids, pineapples or lions. Front porches and colorful verandas appeared. He and his neighbors joined together to build rear fences, one house each weekend. Vinyl floors were replaced with marble. 
 Some homeowners created extravagantly verdant gardens in their front yards. And in the last few years, as a testament to the neighborhood's success, a farmer's market opened nearby.
 At the time he bought the house, Mr. James said, he was earning only $40,000 and could not afford to buy a home any other way. Now he said, while his income is higher, houses in his neighborhood are selling for well over $200,000 a year, threefold what he paid.

Without Subsidies
Private Developers Fill In the Gaps
 Mr. James noticed something else. After Nehemiah built its houses, there were still vacant lots dotting the neighborhood. ''All those gaps were filled in by privately built housing,'' he said. 
 Drew F. Bizzocco, a Brooklyn chiropractor, and his three partners, all old friends, are now filling one of those gaps in East New York. Last May, their company, Babe Builders, paid $468,000 for a large lot on Wyona Street near Livonia Avenue with a vacant pallet factory, which they knocked down. They are now pouring footings for five two-family houses that they plan to build and sell without subsidies.
 Although construction is just beginning, Mr. Bizzocco said, the partners have had so many inquiries about the houses that they had to rush to print up a sales brochure. They are asking $449,000 for a house of about 3,000 square feet, about 30 percent more than they expected to get when they made the purchase. ''It's our first project,'' he said, ''but we are planning others.''
 The signs of resurgence appear all across the area. There are construction Dumpsters in front of wood-frame houses that have not been painted in many years, and just down the street from the new houses on Williams Avenue, workmen were renovating an apartment atop a bodega that had been vacant for years.
 Jack Perlamuter, the founder of Quality Home Sales on Flatbush Avenue, said that the price of vacant lots has soared since the Bizzocco group made its purchase, and home prices have risen too. He attributed much of the increase to the spillover effect of higher prices in other Brooklyn neighborhoods, like Bedford-Stuyvesant, where two-family homes that cost $350,000 two years ago now go for $550,000.
 ''People are moving to East New York and Brownsville because prices are so high in Bedford-Stuyvesant,'' he said. ''There really aren't bad neighborhoods in Brooklyn these days. All of the so-called bad neighborhoods have turned around.''

The Next Step
Plans to Create A Neighborhood
 All these changes in the neighborhood are echoed in the design of Nehemiah's next project, 843 houses that will be built next to a new shopping mall, the Gateway Center, which was opened by the Related Companies in October 2002. 
 Ronald Waters, the general manager of Nehemiah, said that for the first time Nehemiah was building an entire neighborhood from scratch with a goal of creating a place that would be both affordable and distinctive. ''We wanted something that would be eye pleasing and make this community noteworthy,'' he said. ''We have to do value engineering to keep the costs down.''
 Mr. Waters, who grew up in East New York half a century ago, was the project manager for the engineering firm that designed and supervised the construction of the Parliament House in Canberra, Australia. He said he took on the challenge of Nehemiah after his retirement and return to the metropolitan area to ''give something back'' to the community.
 The Bloomberg administration is about to begin infrastructure work on the site, putting in sewers, water and gas lines and roads for the first phase of the project, with construction to begin later this year, perhaps as early as September. Prices are expected to range from $125,000 for a single-family home to $200,000 for a two-family and $300,000 for a small number of three-family houses.
 The new houses will be two or three stories tall, 20 feet wide, rather than 18, in order to make the bedrooms wider, and will be 1,600 square feet. But because the houses are being built on pilings, there will be no basement. Instead, a large attic area will provide storage space. 
 The final designs will be set after construction bids are opened this month. ''We had to be very careful about making everything economical and making use of every inch of space,'' said Mr. Gorlin, the architect.
 For many of the new owners, the neat, identical 18-foot wide houses on Williams Avenue were a dream come true. At the closing 10 days ago, Ms. King clutched a handful of checks, for legal fees, taxes, insurance and so on -- payments totaling about $12,000, including a $5,000 down payment.
 The total cost of the house was $105,000, but $20,000 provided by the city was recorded as a lien against the property, to be repaid, without interest, when the house is sold.
 Henry Camuso, a lawyer for Nehemiah, sat at one table, reviewing and signing documents. At the next table, Ms. King met with representatives of the M & T Mortgage Corporation and signed her agreement for a mortgage subsidized by New York State, with 4 1/2 percent interest and no extra points (points are advance payments equal to a percentage of the mortgage). Then, it was on to Home Abstract, a title company, which took the proceeds of the $80,000 mortgage and turned it over to the Community Preservation Corporation, a not-for-profit group that provided construction financing.
 Ms. King's new payments for mortgage, taxes and insurance total $453 a month, less than the $550 she had been paying for a one-bedroom apartment in the basement of a house, where she lived for 13 years. 
 Her new neighbor, Mr. Clarke, would have even larger savings, since his rent was already $841 a month and rising. ''More grass, more privacy, less money,'' is how he summed it up. 
 At another table she met with a representative of Allstate, the company providing homeowner's insurance, and a salesman for a security company that had installed window and door gates. 
 At a final table Fiordaliza Nunez, the closing manager for Nehemiah, handed her a a thick envelope and lectured the new homeowners on the nuts and bolts of owning a home, covering matters like appliance warranties and operating the water heater and boiler. Inside the envelope Ms. King found another tiny envelope with the keys to her new house. 
 In the blur of excitement on the way out, she stopped at the staircase and stood with her daughter. They clutched the new key in their hands, and Linda Dobson, a Nehemiah staff member, snapped a Polaroid picture that will be hung on the wall of photos at the office, along with hundreds of photos of her new neighbors.
 Then it was out into the bright sun, for a short drive to their new home, and the slight bump as they pulled up on their new driveway. Ms. King put the key in the door and stepped into the thick gray carpeting in her new living room and took a deep breath. 
 A friend from the neighborhood pulled up in front of the house with a van full of supplies. There were paint cans, with glossy paint to replace the builder's flat off-white; tarps; blinds; a carton with a bedroom set; and even a green garden hose to water the grass.
 Two days later, the paint was dry and they moved in.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of possible facades for the three-story row houses planned for future homes to be built by Nehemiah Housing. They are to have front stoops as well as a variety of patterns of brick and colored panels.
Monte Hinds and Dorine Clark talk at Nehemiah homes built in 1990. At right, just-occupied homes on Hinsdale Street. (Photos by top, Alexander Gorlin Architects
bottom left, Dean Cox for The New York Times
bottom right, Edwine Seymour for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Pamela D. King and her daughter, Tiffany, open the door of their new three-bedroom home on Williams Avenue in East New York, Brooklyn. It cost about $85,000 plus a $20,000 subsidy that will eventually be repaid. (Photo by Edwine Seymour for The New York Times)
Left, Nehemiah homes on Barbey Street in East New York, Brooklyn, built more than a decade ago, where owners have added gates, porches and other distinctive touches
center, a view across Williams Avenue from the master bedroom of a new home, to others in the current building phase, which is ending
and, right, a rendering of a design for the next phase. (Photos by left, Dean Cox for The New York Times
center, Edwine Seymour for The New York Times
 right, Alexander Gorlin Architects)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (63%); LAWYERS (60%) Housing; Housing

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Nehemiah Foundation

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; East New York (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



333 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 10; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Card Seem at Risk? Try a Stunt Double

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
AFTER days of searching the Internet, Gen Tanabe of Palo Alto, Calif., found the rare 19th-century memoir he wanted to buy for his father for Christmas last year. But he had no intention of giving the Web site his credit card number.
 ''The site looked like it might have been run by a teenager in a back room,'' said Mr. Tanabe, who writes books about college planning and financial aid. ''I didn't know how secure it was, or what they would do'' with the number. 
 Online vendors typically encrypt credit card numbers at their Web sites, but the numbers must be decoded later to receive payment. And they are often stored in databases that may be vulnerable to hackers or dishonest employees long after the purchase. 
 What if there was a way to fool those who would try to fool us, so that purchases could be made online without any danger of card numbers falling into the wrong hands? A few companies are trying such a plan: think of it as the stunt-double approach to online shopping. 
 Anyone with a credit card from Citibank, MBNA or Discover can request a temporary account number for use when buying online, by telephone or mail order. The temporary numbers are linked to customers' real accounts, but they generally expire after one use, unless the cardholder requests otherwise -- for example, by placing a spending limit on the number. 
 Cardholders can get these numbers in one of two ways, depending on their issuer. They can download software that generates such numbers upon request or upon detecting that a cardholder is at the checkout page of an online retailer. Or, in the case of Citibank, which is owned by Citigroup, they can also register online, then revisit the company's site each time they want a new number. 
 To avoid giving his real card number to that small online bookstore, Mr. Tanabe, 32, used a temporary number to buy the present for his father. ''I probably wouldn't have bought it otherwise,'' he said. 
 The temporary numbers can also prevent retailers from renewing purchases like magazine subscriptions or gym memberships without issuing reminders. Many customers forget that vendors may automatically charge their customers' credit cards for such recurring fees.
 Fraud remains a big concern for many online shoppers. In a survey of 12,000 consumers at the end of 2003, Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass., found that about two-thirds were ''very or extremely concerned'' about the theft of their credit card numbers during online activity.
 Chris Hoofnagle, a lawyer for the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington, says such temporary numbers ease those worries. Mr. Hoofnagle says he has used them himself, to prevent online retailers from keeping his card number in their files. ''If the company stores your credit card number, that database just becomes a honey pot'' for hackers, he said. 
 The temporary numbers, he said, also make him more comfortable buying from newer or unfamiliar vendors. 
 The free service has been available for more than a year, but few people seem to know about it. ''I think if you interview 100 consumers, you'll find 100 consumers who've never heard of it,'' said John Gould, director of consumer lending and bank cards for the TowerGroup, a research company based in Needham, Mass., that was acquired recently by MasterCard.
 Industry analysts say consumers tend to rely on other protections -- including the card companies' promise not to charge them for fraudulent transactions. Last month, in fact, American Express stopped offering its temporary-numbers program, called Private Payments, saying that other safety features already offered plenty of fraud protection. 
 Some consumers may think that their credit card accounts are safe because retailers encrypt their card data at the time of purchase. Though the numbers may then be safe in transit, retailers must still decode the numbers to collect payment. 
 Mr. Gould says it is impossible to ensure that all retailers take the next step: encrypting the numbers again, according to rules set by the card networks. ''This is too big a territory to patrol; in the U.S. alone, you've got over 400,000 merchants online,'' he said. ''You've always got the issue of the merchant who is careless. But the real problem is, you've got the merchant who's a fraudster, whose intent is to steal your information.''
 ANALYSTS also suggest that the card issuers have done little to promote the feature because customers pay nothing for it. But the companies say that the numbers are still relatively new and need time to catch on, especially because their use requires some effort.
 ''And since it's not being offered by every issuer, you just don't have the repetition or frequency to get people talking about it,'' said Steve Furman, director of marketing e-commerce at Discover Card. 
 Although many consumers say they worry about fraud risks, some may not want to bother with temporary account numbers. ''Consumers will tell you one thing and do another,'' said James F. McCarthy, senior vice president for emerging products at Visa. ''There is only so much they will do to protect themselves.''
 Citibank refers to its temporary numbers as virtual account numbers; information is available at www.citibank.com/us/cards/tour/cb/shp--van.htm. Discover, meanwhile, calls them single-use numbers and offers them on its Deskshop page (www2.discovercard.com/deskshop). 
 MBNA customers can create the numbers through the company's online ShopSafe program (www.mbnashopsafe.com). 
 The companies have tried to make the numbers easier to use. A cardholder can now charge monthly phone bills and other recurring payments to the same disposable number, rather than entering a new one each time. Similarly, a cardholder can register a number with a favorite merchant for continued use only with that merchant. 
 ''You'll never need to reveal your actual credit card number again,'' said Amy Radin, executive vice president for the e-business unit of Citi Cards, a division of Citigroup.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen Tanabe of Palo Alto, Calif., used a temporary credit card number on the Internet to buy a rare book as a Christmas gift for his father. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); BOOKSTORES (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); MARKETING SURVEYS (66%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (56%) Credit and Money Cards; Security and Warning Systems; Computer Security; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Citibank; Mbna Corp; Discover Card (Co)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



334 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2679 words

HEADLINE: Not Just for Summer Anymore

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
JIM Bregman and his wife, Norie, have carpetbagged their way to paradise.
 Six years ago, they were searching for a second home to provide an escape from New York on the weekends and during the summer. But the obvious choice - the Hamptons - did not appeal to Mr. Bregman. With the four-hour drive, the insane prices and the high-pressure social environment, they might as well spend the summers in Manhattan, he thought.
 Connecticut, however, offered real possibilities. The Bregmans and another couple had rented a place there in 1996, and Mr. Bregman knew and liked the area. One day they found a beachfront cottage in Milford, an old summertime town on Long Island Sound. The area had miles of beach and reasonable prices. Best of all, it was only an hour and a half from Manhattan. 
 ''It's unquestionably unpretentious,'' Mr. Bregman said. ''It is about as un-Hamptons as you can get. Milford is changing, and the economics are changing it. Milford is being discovered.''
 But it isn't only seekers of vacation homes who are doing the discovering. Although this town of 52,000 began modern life as a summer oasis for people like the Bregmans, those origins are now mainly sepia-tinged memories, residents and realtors say. Across Connecticut and throughout the New York metropolitan region, old summertime haunts are becoming full-time communities as development spreads, property values rise and people acquiesce to commutes worthy of Odysseus.
 Here in Milford, year-round residents live in cottages that were once shuttered after Labor Day, and sprawling second homes have been subdivided and transformed into waterfront condominiums. Some residents accept the transformation as part of the town's evolution; others pine for the lost summers and fret about the impact of development on Milford's shoreline.
 A handful of denizens do hang on to the seasonal life. A few part-timers return to spend their summers in modest waterfront bungalows, and now, a new trickle of New Yorkers are making Milford their second home.
 ''We're the upstarts coming from out of town,'' Mr. Bregman said. ''We're definitely seen as the Johnny-come-latelies.''
 A walk along Milford's shoreline paints a picture of the contrasts. Three-story homes with stucco exteriors and cathedral ceilings bulge on their narrow lots, casting long shadows over one-story cottages. Rusting station wagons are parked in one driveway, BMW's in another. In some homes, the windows are lit and families are eating dinner. Others are still vacant, awaiting owners camped out elsewhere. 
 ''I loved it here growing up,'' said Bonnie Neilson, a longtime resident. ''We lived on the beach. When Labor Day came, I'd cry because I'd be losing all my summer friends. Everyone left in the winter. It's a bedroom community now.''

A Once 'Booming' Resort
 But it's a bedroom with a view. Milford sits on the south shore of Connecticut and the western edge of New Haven County. It is shaped like Texas flipped onto its head. Residents boast that the town has 17 miles of shoreline -- the longest in the state, and replete with sandy beaches.
 It was this shoreline that captivated Milford's first English settlers, who stumbled across the locale in 1639, according to a guide to Connecticut's shore towns written by Doe Boyle. 
 Word spread, and soon a small congregation of New Englanders migrated to the site, lured by tales of calm harbors and ''goodly meadowlands,'' according to Ms. Boyle. The interlopers bought Milford from the Paugussett Indians in exchange for a hodgepodge of kettles, cloth and tools. They began to settle what would develop into a small mill and fishing town.
 A new local history of Milford's beach culture, ''Sand in Our Shoes,'' picks up the tale in the late 19th century, when a few shrewd early developers began buying up land close to the Sound. Known as the Great Salt Meadows and Meadows End, the land was considered useless by most, but the handful of buyers subdivided and sold off lots, according to the history.
 Victorian homes sprang up, as did hotels, bungalows, cottages and frame houses, and by 1918, the town had reconfigured itself as a ''booming vacation resort,'' the history says.
 Longtime residents and local histories describe the area in the summers leading up to World War II as a confection of beachfront hotels, amusement parks, dance halls, food stands along East Broadway near the water, and trolleys creeping along the shore.
 Summer tourists drove in mostly from Westchester, Waterbury, the Naugatuck Valley and parts of Massachusetts, but some also crept up from New York City and New Jersey. They rode roller coasters at the Walnut Beach Amusement Park and spent evenings at the Wonderland Dance Hall.
 Out-of-town mothers, with their children and domestic helpers, stayed all summer long, and fathers would take the trains into Milford on weekends, Ms. Neilson said. The weekends meant starched shirts, new dresses, cocktails and Canasta.
 When autumn came, as many as 80 percent of the residents closest to the water packed up and left, real estate experts said.
 Hurricanes hit Milford in 1950, 1954, 1955 and 1960, grinding cottages into splinters and flooding parts of town. But by then year-round residents were more concerned about urban redevelopment projects, which in the 1960's made their mark on the town. Hundreds of homes near the beach were bulldozed and replaced with apartment buildings and senior housing. 
 Another negative factor was the Silver Sands State Park, a 300-acre waterfront site that the state had acquired in the late 1950's and 60's. It remained a political, economic and environmental liability for the next 30 years. Flooding, vandalism, an intractable squatter and soaring maintenance costs were only a few of its problems.
 Eventually, residents said, the amusement park shut down, and the rows of iconic summer restaurants and arcades began to close, cementing what had become a growing truth to life: Milford was losing its summer identity, becoming more of a year-round town.
 John Streicker, who spent his childhood summers in Milford and is still a summer resident, says he has seen the number of seasonal neighbors ebb on the waterfront street where his grandfather owned a home. ''I think there are only two or three families out there who you'd still consider summer residents,'' he said.

Quest for a Getaway
 This pattern echoes throughout the metro region, from Milford to the lakeside communities of northern Westchester to the Long Island hamlets edging the north shore of Suffolk County.
 As the old summer towns circling New York extend their year-round roots, more and more Americans are looking for seasonal idylls, according to federal housing data. The number of people who own a seasonal recreational home has grown by nearly 200,000 in the past 16 years, reaching 1,974,ooo in 2001, from an estimated 1,775,000 in 1985.
 In the New York metropolitan area, the limited housing supply and climbing prices have already pushed many bargain-hunting buyers to act. Whether primary homes are in upper Manhattan, the outer boroughs or the remote exurbs, vacation homes must be sought even farther afield.
 So while some are scouring Woodstock, N.Y., and the back roads of Putnam County for a vacation cottage, others with less disposable income are putting down permanent roots in towns like Milford or North Salem, N.Y., or in Long Island's eastern North Shore hamlets. These former summer towns, one or two hours from the city, are littered with tiny, often flimsy, homes, but they also offer comparatively cheap prices and nature at the back door.
 ''Land values in waterfront communities have escalated dramatically, particularly in the last couple of decades,'' said Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association. ''It just became economically reasonable to winterize those houses and live there year-round.''
 Real-estate agents from across the region say most of the new residents are young families buying their first homes or senior citizens buying their last. Thomas Cooke, an associate professor of geography at the University of Connecticut, said many part-timers also become full-timers as they age.
 ''Some of that is just people choosing to retire,'' Professor Cooke said. ''Housing prices are up and they're taking their equity, fixing their summer cottages and choosing to live there.''
 A handful of iconic getaways have resisted the trend. Fire Island, for instance, is rugged and inaccessible enough to have retained its summertime flavor, and though the Hamptons now hum all year, many of the millionaires' estates are still shuttered for the winter. 
 But Ms. Kamer said the solidly middle-class summer communities, like Peach Lake, are now too expensive and too accessible to retain their May-to-September character.
 ''I think it's kind of sad,'' Ms. Kamer said. ''These part-time summertime locations will probably disappear in the next 5 to 10 years.''
 Oozing ever farther from New York, such communities are like rings on a pond, said Susan Fainstein, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, remembering places like Coney Island, the Rockaways, Yonkers, Hoboken or Asbury Park as once-distant havens.
 ''It's a very old story in fact,'' she said. ''It's happening all over the country, actually.''
 Up and down the avenue, Bill Poutray and Mary Pike traversed the twilight, pointing out the changes happening behind the closed doors and under the gabled roofs of their town. The couple, who work at an advertising agency in Norwalk a half-hour's drive away, have lived here in Milford since the mid-80's. On this evening they walked through the waterfront Fort Trumbull neighborhood, where hulking Victorians and Colonials sit far back from the road.
 Many of the homes in this part of town have dodged the cycles of teardown, rebuilding and renovation. What has changed, Mr. Poutray said, is who lives here, and when.

Property Values Are Climbing
 Some shorefront homes were still dark, their shades drawn like closed eyelids, but light poured out from most of the windows up and down the blocks. ''This was a blue-collar town, and it still is,'' Mr. Poutray said, ''but there's a lot more money around here now.'' 
 Although Milford is still inexpensive compared with Stamford, Norwalk or Greenwich, Bob Joy Jr., a local real estate agent, says property values here have climbed over the past 10 years, driving the conversion of part-time homes into year-round ones.
 Mr. Joy linked the start of the change with a series of home reassessments that began 10 years ago. Residents who had been paying $3,000 or $4,000 in property taxes were saddled with annual increases of $7,000 or more, and had to decide whether to settle in Milford or leave altogether, Mr. Joy said.
 Property values dropped as a glut of people tried to sell, but the decline was more than offset once New Yorkers and Fairfield County residents began discovering that a beach home in Milford could be had for less than a $1 million, Mr. Joy said.
 ''It's changed the nature of the town,'' he added. ''We have a lot of young prof's moving in and fixing up homes. It wasn't too many years ago you could have fired a shotgun through downtown and couldn't have hit anybody.''
 Richard Julian, associate director of the Connecticut Audubon Center at Milford Point, says the beach and coastal waters have endured the buildup well, largely because homes are confined to narrow lots. Still, he says, he worries that the spread of newer homes closer to the shore will encroach on the habitats of endangered birds like the piping plover and least tern.
 ''There's increased development on either side of us, and there's not much room left for wildlife to go,'' said Mr. Julian, who lives at the 8.5-acre wildlife center.
 Census data for 2000 list the average home value at $165,800, but Mr. Joy said homes near the beach now cost $700,000 to more than $1 million. Smaller houses inland go for $200,000 to $250,000, he said.
 But even with these shifts, certain aspects of life in Milford resisted change over the decade ending in 2000. According to census statistics, the population grew 5 percent during that time; it remained 93 percent white. The proportion of vacation and seasonal homes held steady at about 2 percent of the housing stock. (Although earlier census data on the community are somewhat threadbare, most observers here say the big decline in seasonal homes took place before 1990.)
 Mr. Poutray and Ms. Pike, still on their walk, turned the corner onto a narrow street that was a grab bag of architectural styles, reflecting the tastes of newly renovating residents. 
 Single-story bungalows hunkered next to angular, modern creations. Some houses were simple, scrubbed Cape Cods. Others were decorated with ginger-bread trimming and hugged by wraparound porches.
 ''There's always something to see, because it's changing all the time,'' Ms. Pike said.
 ''That was a little cottage here,'' Mr. Poutray said, pointing out one lot now dominated by a boxy house with circular windows. ''Doesn't that look like Long Beach Island?''
 ''Oh my gosh,'' echoed Ms. Pike, ''that's a Jersey house.''

The Summer Mentality
 Even if the summer season no longer crashes like a wave over Milford, summer culture still pervades.
 People flock to the beaches to sail and swim and watch the July 4 fireworks light the sky at celebrations up and down the Sound. People hock fireworks all over town, and pile onto the beaches at night to burn bonfires.
 As if by clockwork, the slips at the Milford Yacht Club fill up with sailboats and cabin cruisers. Regular Thursday regattas resume.
 ''You should see the people that come over from the harbor on the weekends,'' Ms. Neilson said as she sat inside the yacht club and polished off an apple martini. ''I hear Billy Joel even came through.''
 Summer is different in small ways, residents say. Indian immigrants play cricket on the beach and in playgrounds, and more and more members of the town's tiny and slow-growing African-American and Hispanic communities visit beaches once wall-to-wall white people. ''Jet-Ski'' has become a synonym for ''pestilence.''
 Older residents who during the winter rent their homes to University of Connecticut chiropractic students come back, and expatriates like Mr. Streicker, who now spends his weeks and winters in Manhattan, take the train or drive up Interstate 95 to their summer homes.
 ''I just get a tremendous pleasure from sitting on that porch,'' he said.
 Notions of ''front'' and ''back'' flip-flop after Memorial Day, said Mr. Bregman, who bought his Milford home in 1998. In the winter, he said, a home's front door faces the street. In the summer, it faces the beach. So all summer, neighbors meander up and down the beach, dropping in unannounced, having a drink, moving on.
 ''There's a summer mentality,'' Mr. Bregman said. ''It's sort of a giant movable feast.''
 One spring evening, the sky was soft and still along the beach, and as the tide came in, the children came out.
 Years ago, locals would have called them ''Beach Kids'' -- raucous troupes of both summer sojourners and year-rounders who spent every waking hour on the shore. On this evening, a group of six friends had walked to this stretch of beach from their homes in the lower- and middle-income parts of town, where nobody pays a million dollars for beach views.
 They scaled a lifeguard's stand, flirted with one another, smoked and complained that there was nothing to do in Milford. Now, this pack of 14- and 15-year-olds -- Brandon, Antwan, Amanda, Jackie, Katelin and Justin - waits for the summer, antsy. It means jobs lifeguarding, working at restaurants or sweeping floors. Every summer, Katelin, 15, works for her parents, who own an ice-cream truck. All day she travels southern Connecticut, selling ice cream and waiting for evening.
 The amusement parks are gone, the arcades and waterfront tattoo parlors paved over. Being a Beach Kid today is boring and simple, Katelin said. She and her friends go to the water and sit on the warm sand. ''We all just chill,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The marshes and beach of Silver Sands park are a chief part of Milford's allure, as Gage Paris, above, and Richie Brunetto can attest, along with a group of sunbathers near shoreline property.
Mike Fearnley practicing his swing on Fort Trumbull Beach, near where Bonnie Neilson and her brother Richard reminisced. ''Everyone left in the winter,'' Ms. Neilson said of the Milford she knew as a child. ''It's a bedroom community now.'' (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
Whether on South Broad, the main street, top, or Fort Trumbull Beach, which the Litchfield family view from their porch, Milford is a year-round town with summer trimmings.
 Mary Pike and Bill Poutray, who work in nearby Norwalk, have seen a lot of change in their 20 years as Milford residents. For one thing, Mr. Poutray says, ''There's a lot more money around here now.'' (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); US LABOR DAY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); BEACHES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); CONDOMINIUMS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Milford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



335 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 13; DataBank

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Stock Indexes Decline as Oil Prices Heat Up

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The three major stock market indexes fell modestly last week as investors focused on soaring oil prices and the prospect of rising interest rates rather than on surging corporate profits.
 On Friday, the Labor Department reported that the Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in April, its fifth consecutive monthly gain, bolstering investors' belief that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates soon. 
 Crude oil closed at a record price of $41.38 a barrel in New York on Friday, while the national average for gasoline at the pump reached $1.95 a gallon on Thursday. 
 These factors took some of the shine off of corporate earnings reports for the first quarter, which show that profits rose by an average of 27.1 percent, nearly double analysts' January forecasts, according to Thomson Financial estimates. 
 For the week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell three points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,095.70. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 104.47 points, or 1 percent, to 10,012.87. The Nasdaq composite index declined 13.71 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,904.25.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.78 from 4.77 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.TiffanyNYSE: TIFThe maker of luxury jewelry reported a 12 percent increase in quarterly earnings but warned that profits would be lower than expected for the year as it struggled with its Japanese market.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $33.49WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.22%EST. '04 P/E: 20.43AltriaNYSE: MOShares of Altria and other tobacco companies fell after Florida's highest court said it would review a reversal of a $145 billion judgment against cigarette makers.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.88WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.37%EST. '04 P/E: 10.31Principal Financial GroupNYSE: PFGThe company said that Citigroup was buying its residential mortgage operations business for $1.26 billion.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.93WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.85%EST. '04 P/E: 13.19Dillard'sNYSE: DDSThe operator of department stores said quarterly earnings more than doubled as it scaled back expenses.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.44WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.58%EST. '04 P/E: 36.33Nortel NetworksNYSE: NTA United States grand jury subpoenaed records from the company, North America's biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, as part of an investigation into its accounting practices.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.57WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.93%EST. '04 P/E: 21.51Berkshire HathawayNYSE: BRKaThe investment company controlled by Warren E. Buffett said it had $600 million of currency losses from March 31 to May 5 and might take a $390 million after-tax expense in the second quarter as a result.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $86,500.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.36%EST. '04 P/E: 25.05Popular Inc.NNM: BPOPPuerto Rico's largest bank, whose Banco Popular North America unit has more than 100 offices in six states, announced a two-for-one stock split and raised its quarterly dividend by 18.5 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $43.08WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.23%EST. '04 P/E: 12.24Given ImagingNNM: GIVNThe Israeli medical technology company said that it had signed an exclusive sales representation deal with a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $35.61WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.88%EST. '04 P/E: 712.20(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Banks and Banking; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (59%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (59%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



336 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: DIPLOMACY

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Powell, on Trip to Mideast, Vows Justice on Iraq Abuse

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: SHUNEH, Jordan, May 15 

 BODY:
In a high-stakes attempt to restore the Bush administration's battered credentials in the Arab world, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell traveled on Saturday to the heart of a region roiled by American abuse of prisoners in Iraq, offering an emotional pledge that the United States would ''see that justice is done.''
 While he did not specifically apologize for the abuse or the photographs taken at the Abu Ghraib prison showing uniformed Americans mistreating naked Iraqis, he combined his promise of justice with a commitment that the United States would try to restart Middle East peace efforts, seeking the creation of a Palestinian state and incorporating an offer by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel to withdraw settlements and troops from Gaza.
 Mr. Powell went first to Amman, Jordan, to meet Ahmed Qurei, the Palestinian prime minister. Then he traveled on to this complex of luxurious resort hotels southwest of Amman, on the shore of the Dead Sea. Here, he addressed about 1,000 members of the Arab world's business and political elite, gathered for a meeting of the World Economic Forum. The host was King Abdullah II of Jordan, a country sandwiched between Israel and Iraq. 
 The photographs of Americans abusing Iraqis have stirred deep rage across the Arab world, and it was not clear whether Mr. Powell had managed to calm it in any measure with his emotional -- and sometimes personal -- appeal to Arabs to see the perpetrators as an aberrant minority among the United States forces in Iraq.
 Recalling his own military career and America's ''enormous capacity to do good,'' Mr. Powell began a 30-minute speech by saying he wanted to take off his diplomatic suit and ''put back on the uniform I wore for 35 years'' as a soldier.
 He said the United States had been shocked and ''deeply disturbed'' by the photographs. ''I can tell you straight from my heart we will deal with this,'' he said. 
 ''You will see in the weeks ahead that we are a nation of justice,'' he said, insisting that, in investigating the abuses, the United States would follow ''the values that we have always held dear.''
 He praised the bulk of American soldiers in Iraq as ''wonderful young men and women.'' But, in his closest approach to an outright apology, he said: ''Our heads bow. Our hearts ache over what a small number of them did at that prison. There's no excuse for that.''
 Both after his meeting with Mr. Qurei -- his first since the Palestinian official took over the position last year -- and in his speech at the World Economic Forum, Mr. Powell sought to give the impression that the United States was keen to advance its diplomacy, both in the creation of an interim government to assume sovereignty in Iraq on June 30 and in reviving the stalled Middle East peace effort.
 In his speech, Mr. Powell asked Arabs not to lose sight of the ''larger picture'' in Iraq, saying that American soldiers were helping rebuild a ravaged country and performing ''thousands of acts of kindness and courage.''
 Mr. Powell renewed an American commitment to working with the United Nations and handing over power to an Iraqi administration in Baghdad but was quick to say that United States military forces would remain. Unrest in Iraq was ''such that it will be necessary for our troops to remain for some time,'' he said.
 He received only polite applause. 
 Mr. Powell held separate meetings later with Egyptian and other Arab officials and King Abdullah. A senior State Department official said that several of the officials said that it was important that the United States hand over sovereignty on June 30 and that Mr. Powell had assured them it was ''serious'' about doing so. The official also said the Arab leaders emphasized to Mr. Powell the breadth of the anti-American anger raised by the abuse of Iraqis and the photographs. 
 President Bush and King Abdullah met May 6, after the king canceled an earlier planned meeting in protest of Mr. Bush's approval of Israeli territorial claims in the West Bank.
 In April, Mr. Bush endorsed a proposal by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to withdraw unilaterally from settlements in the Gaza Strip in return for keeping some major settlements in the West Bank. The proposal also rejected the longtime Palestinian demand for a right of return to family homes abandoned in 1948 in what is now Israel. Palestinians and many Arabs protested that the deal reversed American policy and had been struck without consultation with them.
 After meeting Mr. Qurei and in his address here, Mr. Powell sought to convince Arab leaders that the Israeli plan -- since rejected by Mr. Sharon's own Likud party -- was ''a new opportunity'' that could be combined with the earlier peace proposals in the ''road map.''
 ''We hope that we can get the process started again within the context of the road map'' and in consultation with other international players grouped in the so-called Quartet of the United Nations, the European Union, Russia and the United States, Mr. Powell said at a join news conference with Mr. Qurei. 
 For his part, Mr. Qurei said he believed that '''we still have the time, with the support of the United States, with the support of President Bush, with the support of the Quartet'' to achieve a Palestinian state by next year.
 ''We have enough time to finish the negotiations and to have a Palestinian state according to President Bush's vision, which means a Palestinian state in 2005,'' he said.
 Mr. Powell repeated to Mr. Qurei the longstanding American demand that Yasir Arafat relinquish control of Palestinian security forces as a prerequisite for progress toward a peace settlement, according to a senior State Department official.
 Many Arab leaders have shown increasing frustration at the pace of Middle East diplomacy. Indeed, as he opened the conference here on Saturday, King Abdullah declared to much applause, ''Let the world's leaders demonstrate once and for all that they are serious about Palestinian freedom.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spoke yesterday at the World Economic Forum at a resort on the Dead Sea in Jordan. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); TORTURE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLITICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Prisoners of War; Torture; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) World Economic Forum; United Nations

PERSON: Alan Cowell; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JORDAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%) Middle East; Iraq; Israel; Shuneh (Jordan); Middle East; Abu Ghraib (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



337 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Low Rates, High Expectations

BYLINE: By James Grant. 
James Grant is the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.

 BODY:
Inflation is returning to the American checkout counter under the unlikely sponsorship of the Federal Reserve. For the past year, the Fed has been striving to make the dollar buy less. It's well on its way to succeeding, to judge by the recent readings on wholesale and consumer prices.
 Why the Fed decided to propagate inflation, after having so long battled against it, is a story that begins with the return to common usage of an old word. Late in 2002, officials began to warn of the danger of ''deflation,'' or broadly falling prices. Everyday low prices are well and good, the central bankers allowed. Yet if prices steadily and predictably fell, people would stop buying things. They would stay home to wait for tomorrow's guaranteed lower prices. And if the American consumer stopped shopping -- and borrowing to shop -- where would we be? 
 So, last June 25, the Fed pushed the federal funds rate, the rate it directly controls, down to 1 percent, the lowest since the second Eisenhower administration. And it warned that ''the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation exceeds that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level.''
 Before the Fed was founded, in 1913, there were recurrent cycles of inflation and deflation. In general, prices rose in wartime and fell in peacetime. In the last quarter of the 19th century, prices persistently fell. Technological innovation pushed down costs, and lower costs translated into lower prices. Wage-earners flourished as the spending power of money increased. Creditors prospered, too, as interest rates declined.
 Then, about 1900, the world struck gold -- in Alaska, Colorado and South Africa. As gold was then the monetary asset on which national currencies were based, the world, in effect, struck money. For the next two decades, prices went up.
 It is a relatively new thing in finance that prices should not be allowed to fall. The Federal Reserve implicitly admits as much. On the one hand, it extols the rising productivity of the United States economy. On the other, it declares that this extraordinary progress should not be registered in falling prices. In so many words, the central bank says that what is good for Wal-Mart's customers is not necessarily good for the country.
 The Fed doesn't literally print money. Instead, it manipulates the interest rate that induces others to print money. In a modern economy, money-printing takes the form of credit creation, i.e., lending and borrowing.
 There has been a great deal of this in recent years. By any and all measures, America is more heavily indebted than ever before. In 1958, when the funds rate was last at 1 percent, the economy's overall indebtedness was about half of today's. Back then, overall debt (excluding the borrowings of banks and the federal government) represented 84 percent of gross domestic product. Nowadays, it stands at 163 percent of G.D.P.
 The weight of this indebtedness, foreign as well as domestic, helps to explain why the Fed set its rate so low. One percent is an emergency rate, unseen before the institution of the Fed and only rarely since. It was the rate intended to raise the economy from the Great Depression and to see it through World War II and the immediate cold war era.
 The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, and his colleagues keep saying that there is no emergency -- that, on the contrary, the United States economy is a paragon of strength, lacking only an acceptable rate of job creation. Yet they have kept their rate at the emergency setting, thus fomenting a real-estate boom on Main Street and a stock-and-bond boom on Wall Street.
 Now the 1 percent era is fast closing, and financial markets worldwide are shuddering. As the signs of inflation multiply, the Fed finds itself in a very interesting position. It never wanted much inflation, it protests; just a whiff would suffice.
 But the subjects in the central bank's monetary experiment are human beings, not laboratory mice. When people sense that prices are going to rise, they take steps to protect themselves. They buy extra inventory, invest in so-called hard assets (houses, not bonds) and pass along their rising costs as best they can. Once instilled, inflationary habits are hard to break, as the Fed exactly understands.
 And the Fed will raise its rate, though grudgingly and gradually. It will act in this fashion not only out of conviction but also, perhaps, out of a guilty conscience. It knows that its 1 percent rate drove many risk-averse people into stocks and bonds because they could no longer afford to live on the meager returns of their savings. That is at one pole of the spectrum of financial sophistication. At the other, hedge funds borrowed at ultra-low rates to speculate in everything from gold to lead. Just the prospect of a slightly higher borrowing rate has brought about disturbances in the temples of high finance.
 The Fed has another reason to be conscience-stricken. It knows, or should know, that by trying to make the dollar cheaper, it has precipitated even more borrowing in an economy heavily encumbered. The greater the debt, the more deflation-prone the economy. And the more deflation-prone the economy, the more the Fed is apt to try to cheapen the dollar. The truth is that the central bank of the United States is chasing its tail. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: James Grant

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



338 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14; Ideas & Trends: Tipping Points

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: At $2 a Gallon, Gas Is Still Worth Guzzling

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich. 

 BODY:
AN informal poll of drivers filling up on Friday at a Sunoco gas station, where unleaded starts at $2.05, showed the frustrations over rising energy prices.
 ''It's ridiculous,'' said Abby Lochotzki, 22, a student at Eastern Michigan University filling up a Chevy Blazer.
 ''Outrageous,'' said Kashania Thrower, 22, who works at a local rehab clinic. 
 Are people driving any less?
 ''I don't drive as much and I walk places I can walk to,'' Ms. Lochotzki said.
 Marci Gilchrist, 49, a mother of two filling a Ford Taurus wagon, said she sought out the station because the price was a little lower than at her home in nearby Ann Arbor, Mich.
 ''Where I live, it's about $2.15,'' she said.
 Still, Americans are probably not going to rush out and ditch their pickup trucks for compact cars. And in a nation where mass transit is largely unavailable and the road trip beloved, people will have to be pushed hard to change their habits. 
 Gas prices hit a national average of $1.94 per gallon last week, but prices in the early 1970's, adjusted for inflation, hit $3 per gallon at their peak. And that was at a time when consumers were suffering from deeper economic malaise. 
 Today's S.U.V. buyers may feel pinched at $2 per gallon, but that's still way below the $5 per gallon levels that have Europeans driving cars so small they would be Hummer-fodder on American streets. 
 ''Once you start to get over $3.50, $4, closer to European prices, we'll perhaps see driving habits change,'' said Charlie Vogelheim, executive editor at Kelley Blue Book, which tracks new and used car values. ''Maybe people will carpool and won't take as many trips.'' 
 In a study conducted last month by Kelley and the polling firm Harris Interactive, about 40 percent of 1,700 car shoppers said high gas prices would have an effect on their decision. And last month did see a sharp falloff in demand for the largest S.U.V's, with the Ford Expedition, Hummer H2 and Chevrolet Suburban all down at least 20 percent from a year earlier. 
 Still, one month's data is just one month's data, and hiccups are not unheard of. Most analysts think it will take a lot more to knock Americans out of their gas guzzlers. In the 2003 model year, the average light-duty vehicle weighed more than two tons for the first time since the mid 1970's. 
 ''People are beginning the thought process but not really changing their habits,'' said Mr. Vogelheim. ''But it begins with the consciousness starting.''
 So what would it really take? 
 Maybe the $100-fillup, Mr. Vogelheim said, adding that Californians who own the Ford Excursion, which has a 44-gallon tank, already have to shell out five twenties to fill up in their state. 
 Robert Schnorbus, chief economist for J.D. Power & Associates, said, ''Big S.U.V. sales were down uncharacteristically last month, but I'm not sure that signifies much yet.
 ''I think the consumer is getting more concerned that this is going to last a lot longer than these price spikes have in the past,'' he said. ''But even at $2 a gallon, the additional cost spread out over the ownership cycle isn't likely to be enough to make people dramatically change their buying patterns.''
 ''The price of oil,'' Mr. Schnorbus added, ''is still cheaper than bottled water and milk.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1970's -- Thirty years ago, Americans had a hankering for big, fuel-thirsty cars like the Cadillac Eldorado.
 TODAY -- The Ford Excursion is a symbol of this new gasguzzling era.Chart: ''Big and Unbending''As with any other commodity, gas prices rise and fall, but consumers are slow to change their habits through the volatility. The weight and horsepower of the average vehicle sold in America dropped after the oil crisis of the 1970's, but they've climbed steadily since. Following are the vehicle averages for each year, based on all vehicles sold.AS CARS BECAME HEAVIER -- WeightGraph tracks average weight of vehicles since 1975....AND MORE MUSCULAR -- HorsepowerGraph tracks average horsepower for vehicles since 1975....AND FASTER -- 0-to-60 m.p.h. timeGraph tracks average time for vehicles to reach speed of 0-to-60 since 1975.FUEL EFFICIENCY STALLED -- Miles per gallonGraph tracks miles per gallon for vehicles since 1975. (Projected 2004)(Source by Environmental Protection Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOTTLED WATER (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Bottled Water; Milk; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



339 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1; HOME FRONT

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Producing Gold Teeth, Dentures and Jobs

BYLINE: By Terry Pristin

 BODY:
EDWARD RICCOBONO, a burly man with a gregarious manner, is carrying a black velvet tray of the type that might be used to display high-end jewelry. Instead, he is showing off some of his products: a 24-karat gold tooth that will be covered in porcelain, a metal frame that will hold a partial denture, and a company specialty, a flexible pink gasket known as a Cu-Sil denture, which is gentler than metal on the adjoining teeth.
 ''Everything we do is custom-made,'' said Mr. Riccobono, who started in the business by working for his father. ''There are no cookie-cutter items that we do.'' 
 Mr. Riccobono and his partner, Robert Y. Wallace, run Nu-Life Dental Laboratories, a company with 29 employees that has been making crowns and dentures in Brooklyn since 1958. Located above a Duane Reade store on a bustling stretch of Kings Highway, the offices are not much to look at, with worn workbenches that were part of the original furnishings. But the business itself is hardly as antiquated as its surroundings. In one room, a computer-operated machine transforms wax models into porcelain crowns.
 With so much attention focused on Wall Street and Fortune 500 companies, it is easy to forget that New York is essentially a city of small businesses. Of the more than 200,000 companies in New York, 96.5 percent have 49 employees or fewer, said James P. Brown, an analyst with the State Department of Labor. Small companies also account for most of the new jobs, said Jonathan Bowles, research director for the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan research group.
 Nu-Life, however, nearly became one of those businesses that could no longer make a go of it in New York.
 About 500 dentists and 20 hospitals in the metropolitan area buy from Nu-Life, but they have many other laboratories to choose from, including mom-and-pop operations with much lower overhead, Mr. Riccobono said. So Nu-Life can charge its customers only a fraction of what the dentists bill their patients, he said.
 And, as the neighborhood has prospered, the company's rent has been rising. Over the past decade, it has gone to $9,000 a month from about $2,000, he said. About 18 months ago, Mr. Riccobono decided it was time for Nu-Life to have a building of its own. He wanted to stay in Brooklyn, but at first his only options seemed to be in industrial neighborhoods, where his employees might not feel safe after dark. ''The single biggest problem small manufacturers have,'' Mr. Bowles said, ''is not taxes or energy, but real estate.''
 So Mr. Riccobono began looking on Long Island, where there were more buildings to choose from, and in New Jersey, which offered juicy incentives. ''Some of them would take my whole lifetime to use up,'' he said.
 New York offers incentives, too, but Mr. Riccobono never imagined that a business the size of Nu-Life could partake of them because most of the focus in recent years has been on large corporate recipients. Under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the city has not entirely ended what the mayor has described as ''corporate welfare,'' but it has become more selective and less generous when dealing with large companies. 
 When Mr. Riccobono finally found a building in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, on Mill Avenue near Avenue U, the city was able to help him with $488,000 in tax abatements under a program for small manufacturers administered by the Industrial Development Agency, an arm of the City Economic Development Corporation. Successful applicants must ''demonstrate to us that the project wouldn't go forward without our help,'' said Barbara Basser-Bigio, the agency's executive director.
 Nu-Life is paying $1 million for the building and spending $250,000 on improvements. It will have roughly the same amount of space it has now, about 4,000 square feet, but will be able to install modern workstations, with room for 12 additional workers. Mr. Riccobono plans to hire six after the move. 
 Since January 2002, the program for small manufacturers has helped 45 industrial companies, keeping 2,500 jobs in New York and creating 1,500 more, said Valerie J. Rutstein, a vice president of the development corporation. With the economy improving, ''we think this is going to grow in the next couple of years,'' she said. ''Things are picking up substantially.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Y. Wallace, left, and Edward Riccobono run Nu-Life Dental Laboratories, a Brooklyn business that employs 29 and turns out custom-made crowns and dentures. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTAL LABORATORIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); DENTISTRY (89%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); HOSPITALS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); REAL ESTATE (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%) Teeth and Dentistry; Small Business; Company and Organization Profiles; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Nu-Life Dental Laboratories (NYC)

PERSON: Edward Riccobono; Robert Y Wallace; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



340 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: Psst. Why Insider Trading Keeps Going.

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
ARRIVING in Las Vegas for a board meeting of Interstate Bakeries, E. Garrett Bewkes Jr., a director, called his son, Robert, a broker at UBS, at his home in Darien, Conn. The two men talked almost every day, swapping bits of family and market gossip, and this day, in February 2003, was no exception.
 The conversation occurred hours before the board meeting began. Mr. Bewkes, who had been given an internal report documenting the company's deteriorating financial condition, complained to his son that ''business was lousy,'' according to regulatory filings. Mr. Bewkes, a former Paine Webber director, added that if his son owned any of the stock in Interstate, which makes Wonder bread and Hostess cakes, he should get rid of it. ''I don't see the stock going anywhere for a long time,'' he concluded, according to the filings.
 Ten minutes later, Robert Bewkes, a broker at UBS for 12 years, sold $230,000 worth of Interstate Bakeries stock for himself, his family and a few select clients, filings show. For the Bewkeses, what had begun as a father-and-son chat suddenly became something much more ominous, according to regulators: trading on inside information. 
 A week later, Interstate warned the public of a major earnings shortfall, and its stock sank 25 percent that day. (The bad news came just four months after Samuel D. Waksal pleaded guilty to insider trading in stock of his company, ImClone Systems.) The New York Stock Exchange, on the lookout for unusual trading before stocks rose or fell rapidly, promptly opened an investigation of trading in Interstate. Just as quickly, they turned up Robert Bewkes's timely sale of 16,000 shares, linking him to the director with the same surname.
 The Bewkeses settled civil claims last month with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which had accused them of violating securities laws by making use of nonpublic information for trading purposes. Robert Bewkes, who resigned from his job at UBS last June, accepted a five-year ban from the securities industry and agreed to pay $137,306. The elder Mr. Bewkes (pronounced BEW-kess) paid a $67,517 fine and stepped down from his directorship at Interstate last July. He also resigned from the boards of a number of UBS mutual funds. Neither man admitted any wrongdoing, and neither agreed to be interviewed for this article. UBS and Interstate Bakeries also declined to comment.
 The Bewkes saga was a devastating blow for the family, of course. But it also suggests that despite the intense public scrutiny of recent celebrity insider-trading cases, like those of Mr. Waksal and Martha Stewart, Wall Street insiders -- who in theory should know better than anyone -- still violate securities laws by misusing nonpublic information. The S.E.C. brought 50 insider-trading cases last year, roughly on par with the number pursued in each of the previous five years.
 Federal prosecutors have aggressively gone after wrongdoers. Mr. Waksal, the founder of ImClone Systems, was sentenced to seven years in prison after being found guilty of passing on inside information to his daughter. And while Ms. Stewart, a friend, was not found guilty of insider trading, she was convicted of lying to investigators about her own ImClone stock sales in an attempt to keep the government from filing insider-trading charges against her. 
 THE S.E.C., in fact, has a civil case of insider trading pending against Ms. Stewart and her broker, Peter E. Bacanovic. That case had been shelved while she was tried for criminal obstruction of justice. She now faces the possibility of going to prison for that conviction, and the S.E.C. will pursue the civil insider-trading case once the judge in her criminal case gives them permission to do so.
 Investigators acknowledge that they are not sure why some of the smartest people in and around Wall Street continue to run afoul of insider-trading laws when so much attention is being lavished on the crime. ''We don't know why people do these things sometimes,'' said Mark K. Schoenfeld, a top enforcement official in the S.E.C.'s New York office, where most insider-trading cases are prosecuted. ''One thing we can't account for are lapses in judgment.''
 Whim, tragic error and greed are motivating forces, investigators say. But ultimately, they cite a sense that Wall Street insiders think the information they use to make trades is so privileged -- so ''inside'' -- that no one will know they used it. ''A lot of people engage in white-collar transgressions because they think they won't get caught,'' said Dennis B. Levine, who spent more than a year in prison after he was convicted, in 1986, of trading on inside information. ''One thing I learned is that there are really smart guys working at the S.E.C. and the U.S. attorney's office.'' He says he always tells people, ''Just don't do it.''
 For Mr. Levine, who now runs his own consulting firm and lectures business school students on the perils of violating securities laws, the pain and embarrassment he felt are still fresh in his mind, causing him to wonder why people continue to make the same mistakes. ''One would think that the government's ability to ferret out improper trading activities, as well as the stiffer sentences, would act as a deterrent,'' he said. 
 As anyone who knows Eugene Garret Bewkes will tell you, he is no Dennis Levine or Sam Waksal -- or Martha Stewart, for that matter. A millionaire several times over who splits his time between homes in Vero Beach, Fla., and Nantucket, Mass., Mr. Bewkes, who is 76, has a discreet, understated manner that harks back to the 60's and 70's, when chief executives were not pop icons, flaunting their wealth and flashy lifestyles. He made a name for himself in the 1980's by turning around poorly performing companies. His peers describe him as the most ethical man they know. 
 ''He is a man of absolute integrity and character,'' said Donald B. Marron, the former chairman and chief executive of Paine Webber and a longtime friend of Mr. Bewkes. ''He has a good business record, too. He is a good guy, and that's important in relationships.''
 His two other sons are also well-regarded executives: Jeffrey L. Bewkes is chairman of the entertainment and networks division of Time Warner and a leading candidate to eventually succeed Richard D. Parsons as chief executive of the company; E. Garrett Bewkes III is a veteran Wall Street deal maker who was once co-head of Bear Stearns's investment banking division.
 Still, given their father's high standards and the 40 years he has spent as a senior executive and a director on a wide range of corporate boards, it is surprising that he spoke so cavalierly about selling Interstate Bakeries stock when he had information that would eventually set the stock reeling. More surprising is that his son acted on it. Friends say that the two speak as often as four times a day, and that the call by the senior Mr. Bewkes was not a deliberate attempt to sell stock in advance of pending bad news. Instead, they say, it was just jocular banter between father and son that went horribly wrong when the son, taking for granted that his father would never break the law, put in the sell orders. Nor did the father try to deceive regulators, as Ms. Stewart did; on the contrary, people involved in the investigation said, he swiftly pursued a settlement with the S.E.C. when confronted with the evidence.
 Greed did not seem to be a motive. Robert Bewkes ultimately saved $67,517 in losses for himself and his clients, a relatively modest amount for a veteran stockbroker who owns a rambling house on the outskirts of the exclusive Wee Burn Country Club in Darien. None of the stock he sold belonged to his father. In their complaint, regulators allege that Mr. Bewkes aimed to help his son both personally and professionally by tipping him off. In so doing, they contend, he violated perhaps the most bedrock concept of securities law: that a company director has a fiduciary obligation to keep nonpublic news from being used for stock market gains. ''People in these positions should know better,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''It's a small amount and thus less graphic and venal, but it was still done with an intent to confer a benefit on the son.''
 If professional advancement, or just professional pride, was the motivating factor for the Bewkeses, it would not be unusual. John M. Youngdahl, a former economist from Goldman Sachs and the son of a highly regarded Wall Street executive, pleaded guilty last year to wire fraud and securities fraud for having prematurely disclosed to Goldman's bond traders that the Treasury Department would be halting its 30-year bond sales. While Goldman made $4.3 million by trading on the information -- and would later pay $9 million to settle with regulators -- Mr. Youngdahl saw no financial gain whatsoever. Later this month he will leave his two children, his wife and his house in the affluent suburb of Summit, N.J., and start a 33-month prison term.
 Mr. Youngdahl also declined to be interviewed. But with his career gone, his name sullied and the prospect of years in prison away from his family, Mr. Youngdahl described to his lawyer his feelings of ignominy. 
 Steven Cohen, one of Mr. Youngdahl's lawyers, said: ''I told him it's like 'The Trial' in Kafka. But he said: 'No, it's not ''The Trial.'' It's ''Metamorphosis.'' I woke up one morning and suddenly I'm a cockroach.'''
 The Bewkes case illustrates the length of such a fall. The elder Mr. Bewkes, after graduation from the Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts and Yale Law School, began his career as a tax lawyer and became an executive at Norton Simon, a conglomerate that owned Canada Dry and other companies, in the 1970's. In 1982, he became chief executive of American Bakeries, which he eventually bought with a group of investors; in 1988, parts of it were sold to Interstate Bakeries. In 1991, he became a director of Interstate, and was on the board of Paine Webber from 1987 to 2000, when the firm was acquired by UBS.
 It was, in fact, his use of a UBS corporate cellphone to call his son that led regulators -- who were already looking at Interstate trading and the relationship between the Bewkeses -- to conclude that there might have been an exchange of inside information between father and son. 
 Friends and relatives of the Bewkeses said they were not surprised, in retrospect, that the elder Mr. Bewkes -- consciously or not -- tried to help his son that day. They said that Robert, who is 48, did not have the competitive business genes of his brothers and that he relied on an occasional helping hand from his father. ''Bob is a wonderful guy, but he was always looked out for more,'' said Lawrence Jerome, his first cousin and the best man at his wedding. ''He never had the drive that his brothers had. I think it was just a case of a good father trying to direct his son to use the skills that he has.''
 ALTHOUGH Robert started out at the Deerfield Academy, then a boys' prep school, where his father was a trustee and where his two elder brothers had thrived, he never embraced the school's high-octane competitive spirit and left after two years because of illness, finishing high school elsewhere. His brother Jeff went to Yale, and his brother Garrett went to St. Lawrence, where their grandfather once was president. Robert went to Syracuse University.
 Robert Bewkes's first job after graduation was as a sales manager at Canada Dry, where his father had worked, and in 1991 he became a broker at Paine Webber, where his father was a director. He stayed there after UBS bought the firm and remained until last year. A gregarious sort, he took to the social aspect of a broker's job, but never became a significant producer there, looking out primarily for accounts of family and friends, according to people who have seen his employment records at UBS.
 Now banned from the financial industry for five years, he is working in partnership with a friend, renovating houses. He has children in private school and a large house in Darien to maintain, and some family members worry about his future.
 ''I don't think Bob is worth a great pot of money,'' said Mr. Jerome, his cousin. ''I know he feels terrible about this. He let his father down. I don't know how you come to terms with that. If he hadn't picked up the phone, none of this would have happened.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: E. Garrett Bewkes Jr., in a 1980's photo, settled civil claims accusing him of making use of nonpublic information for trading purposes.
John M. Youngdahl, formerly of Goldman Sachs, is to serve 33 months in prison after pleading guilty to wire fraud and securities fraud. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 12)
 (pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (91%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BAKERIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); RESIGNATIONS (85%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BAKED GOODS MFG (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Securities and Commodities Violations; Insider Trading; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Interstate Bakeries Corp

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) Landon Jr Thomas; Robert Bewkes; E Garrett Jr Bewkes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



341 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Black, White and Brown

BYLINE: By Sam Tanenhaus

 BODY:
On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education decision, Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, moderated a discussion of the historic ruling between Cornel West, whose new book, ''Democracy Matters,'' will be published in September, and Henry Louis Gates Jr., whose latest book is ''African American Lives,'' edited with Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham. A fuller, video version of the conversation is available at nytimes.com/books.

Unintended Consequences Of the Brown Decision
 Gates. I was born in 1950. Brown v. Board's in 1954. Schools in Mineral County, W.Va., which is about three hours west of D.C., integrated in 1955. I started school in 1956. So my entire life, because of Brown v. Board, I went to integrated schools. My town had 2,100 people in 1950, 386 of whom were black. So you can see just from the stats why integration occurred so quickly. It was inefficient to have two separate school systems. [So] they fired all the black teachers except one from the elementary school and one, the principal, from the high school and integrated them into the white staff at the white schools.
 For me the most problematic aspect of Brown was the fundamental premise that separate inherently spelled unequal. Curiously enough, I find myself agreeing with Clarence Thomas when he argues that there was a perverse aspect to the logic of Brown v. Board.
 West. But I think it's really important to keep in mind what the vital options at a particular historical moment are. Given America's vicious legacy of white supremacy, [the Brown legal team] had to argue against separate but equal because that's already inscribed in Plessy v. Ferguson.
 Gates. You're absolutely correct. In their time they had no choice. But they also happened to have believed that all-black institutions were inherently inferior and that many of them would disappear very quickly, and all the better for it. In 1937 Richard Wright wrote that once the goals of a nation's civil rights movement are realized, Negro literature as an institution would disappear. We would produce a new kind of integrated society. And we see that legacy in many of the reform movements that abound today trying to address the problem of resegregation.
 West. There's a certain complication here. When Charles Hamilton Houston takes over the deanship in 1929 at Howard, he tries to Harvard-ize it. He realized Howard could not even begin to compete with Harvard. But he also knew that after a decade or two Howard would be better than many white law schools, though maybe not Harvard. Now in that sense he doesn't believe that the black folk by themselves are inferior vis-a-vis white institutions, only the elite white institutions. They're going to outcompete a lot of the white law schools. Why? Because he's bringing in some top-notch black professors, and white professors too.

Brown 1 Versus Brown 2
 West. We have to keep in mind what the dominant response was in 1954. It was white resistance. It was white backlash. We don't have any substantive remedies. So there was a ''Brown 2'' in 1955 having to do with the remedy, ''all deliberate speed.'' [The decision was to leave it to] the federal district judges, [who] over and over again affirmed local control. And local control meant you're going to follow the de facto segregation patterns in residence, in property taxes and so on.
 Gates. What we're talking about really is how to deal with the conflict between quality and community. Many of our friends on the left would have us believe that all black people want their kids bused out of the inner cities. [But] what they want from busing is quality. If we could make predominantly black schools excellent, would that be a satisfactory goal? I say yes, because I don't think there's anything magic about being around white people. I think it's good for a multicultural society to have integration. But unless we have economic integration, we're not going to have residential integration. And unless the schools have quality, we're not going to have economic integration. We [also] need a revolution within the African-American community insisting on a change in attitude, behavior and morals. Deferred gratification, staying in school, doing your homework, reminding people in a programmatic way that the blackest thing you could be historically was an educated man or an educated woman within the African-American community.

From Brown to Affirmative Action
 Gates. At Yale, the class of 1966 had six black boys. The class of 1973, which I entered in September 1969, had 96 black men and women. What was there, a genetic blip in the race and all of a sudden there are 90 smart black people who exist in 1969 who hadn't existed in 1966? Of course not. [Before affirmative action] you couldn't just show up in the black community and apply [to Yale]. You had to go through filters within the race. You had to know somebody. There were these mechanisms. It's the same [with] Rosa Parks. She did not spontaneously sit down on that bus. She was chosen for the role. She was trained. The way the mythology is perpetuated, she was tired, she was poor, she was black, and she sat down. Well, no, that's not how it happened.
 West. This is why the conservative appropriation of Brown 1 is phony. We all agree with the affirmation of the principle of equality. Now Brown 2 says the remedies for this injustice are going to be left up to local custom, local courts. The 1960's came along and we had to come up with more aggressive strategies [to integrate] institutions of higher learning. Unfortunately, as we know -- and this is where I think some of the conservatives are right -- so much more time needs to be spent with K through 12, but it's precisely because of the conservative support of policies that made it difficult for grade schools to be adequately supported that affirmative action became a kind of third wave to deal with injustice.

Is There Segregation Today in the Ivy League?
 West. There are certain social patterns of what I call soft segregation. Many of the faculty of all colors at Princeton encourage the students to be multicontextual. There's nothing wrong with black students spending time with black students, Catholic students spending time with Catholic students and so forth. But you don't want to get locked into that one context.
 Gates. It's the difference between enforced segregation and willing association. I give all these speeches for the Harvard Alumni Association. Invariably, there is a question -- it's always a white person, and they put it in a euphemistic way: Do all the students still sit together in the cafeteria? Yes, it's so sad. Every time I walk into the dining hall, I shake my head -- all those white students sitting together. I say, man, look at all these white kids and a handful of black people. Harvard is not like Harlem.
 I don't know if we went through a period of great desegregation and I missed it. I mean it was great for me, it was great for you. I don't have the historical statistics, but I certainly have the statistics at hand for the situation today. In the Boston metro area, 7 in 10 white students attend schools in the outer suburbs, schools that are over 90 percent white. By contrast, more than three-quarters of black and Latino students attend schools in the city or in one of the urbanized satellite cities. Segregated minority schools in metro Boston are also high-poverty schools. The black middle class has moved out, moved into the suburbs. What it means is that these all-black-and-brown schools not only are all-black-and-brown but they are poor. 
 West. One has to say this almost in a comic mode, but if it becomes a matter of national security, then there will be equality of opportunity across the board. That is to say, you're telling folk, your whole democratic experiment is going to go under if you don't provide at least more economic opportunity. It's almost like Iraq, the war against terror; this is national security. When it comes to the plight of poor children, especially poor black and brown children, it's difficult for many citizens to conceive of them as being integral to the public interest.
 Gates. The identification of interests, the sharing of common interests between the black middle, upper middle classes and the black people stuck behind, is [more] important than shared class identification between white members of the upper middle class and black members of the upper middle class. Why? Because if the black middle class abandons the black underclass, there will be no hope. People are not willingly going to redistribute wealth. It's just against human nature. You have to persuade them that it's a good idea.
 West. What you're saying, though, is that it's not in the name of one citizen's status that one tries to enhance the situation of the most vulnerable, but [only] in the name of some communal ethnic racial identity. Why? It's up to the black middle class to save the black poor because the other citizens in the larger democratic republic don't have a major interest in that. Now if that's the case, it's a very sad commentary.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cornel West (left) and Henry Louis Gates Jr., discussing 50 years of Brown v. Board. (Photograph by Lisa Iaboni/nytimes.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%) Education and Schools; Brown V Board of Education (1954 School Integration Suit); Blacks

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (58%) Sam Tanenhaus; Cornel West; Henry Louis Jr (Prof) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



342 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25; TELEVISION: THE EPISODE

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: The Forensic Evidence Is In, And It Points to New York

BYLINE: By ROBERT LEVINE

 BODY:
MINUTES into tomorrow's episode of ''C.S.I.: Miami,'' at 10 p.m. on CBS, a teenage girl returns home from a night of clubbing and finds the dead bodies of her parents. It's a standard opening for cop shows, especially the kind of series known as police procedurals, which focus on detective work, but only on the ''C.S.I.'' programs would the girl find out about her mother by tapping her from behind to wake her up -- then watching her head fall off her neck.
 On ''C.S.I.: Miami,'' dead bodies tell tales, and tomorrow's headless mother must somehow point the way to New York, which will provide the setting for a spin-off series, ''C.S.I.: New York.'' Two years ago, the original ''C.S.I.'' introduced ''C.S.I.: Miami'' in a plot that brought its Las Vegas-based squad to Florida. This time around, the producers chose ''Miami'' to introduce ''New York'' because, as one of the characters says in the course of the episode, Miami is ''the sixth borough.'' Not incidentally, this third installment is set in the same city as that other crime mini-empire, ''Law and Order'' and its soon-to-be-three siblings. Like ''Law and Order,'' the ''C.S.I.'' series share a basic narrative formula -- in this case, grisly crimes solved by the end of the hour on the basis of forensic evidence. 
 So in addition to telling a self-contained, satisfyingly complex mystery story, the show's writers had to construct a plausible reason for Horatio Caine, the lead investigator on ''C.S.I.: Miami,'' played by David Caruso, to travel to Manhattan. There, the episode must introduce and define the lead ''C.S.I.: New York'' characters well enough to give viewers a sense of what to expect in the fall -- all in 44 minutes. ''You're making a whole new world,'' said Ann Donahue, the show runner for ''C.S.I.: Miami'' and a co-creator, with Carol Mendelsohn and Anthony E. Zuiker, of ''C.S.I.: New York.'' ''You have to show New York the way you want the world to see it. And then you have to introduce five new characters. That's a ton to do.''
 Caine ends up traveling north because of the promise he makes to Laura Spelman, the teenager who found her parents' bodies, to catch her parents' killers. Forensic evidence at the scene -- phlegm that reveals a respiratory inflammation common to New Yorkers who live near ground zero, threads unique to the seat pattern of a small airline -- points to a suspect in Manhattan. Local cops could probably handle it, but, as Caine says with typical tough-guy attitude, ''New York homicide didn't make a promise to Laura Spelman.''
 When Caine arrives at the suspect's New York address, he finds a crime scene -- and the crime scene investigator who will be the lead character of the new series, Detective Mack (Mac) Taylor, played by Gary Sinise. A quick, staccato exchange between Caine and Taylor (They. Talk. Like. This.) about who gets to prosecute the perp defines them as focused and competent with the economical characterization typical of the show. ''All three of the 'C.S.I.' stars are driven in their own different way,'' said Ms. Donahue, referring to the characters played by William Petersen on the original show, Mr. Caruso and now Mr. Sinise. On ''C.S.I.,'' as on ''Law and Order,'' characters are defined purely in terms of work, and they don't seem to get out of the office much anyway. ''C.S.I.: New York'' will be more character-driven, in part to differentiate it from the other two shows, but only slightly, said Mr. Zuiker, the show runner for the new series and the creator of the original. ''When you bring people home to see Dad, it's not our show.''
 Like Taylor, the other New York characters are variations on a ''C.S.I.'' theme of public servants so dedicated to justice they're willing to get elbow-deep in innards for it. Later in the episode, more of the murderer's victims are found in a Fifth Avenue apartment building, and another major New York character, Stella Bonasera (Melina Kanakaredes), is introduced as she's running after a guy on a gurney, hounding medics to let her take pictures of his injury for evidence. ''The kid's been shot and she doesn't care -- she wants a picture of the wound because the wound can tell her about the case,'' Ms. Donahue said. The dialogue is particular to the setting -- ''there really is a New York attitude,'' Ms. Donahue said -- but the dedication is common to the ''C.S.I.'' characters. All of them have the kind of single-minded focus one would value in a colleague but might dread in someone at a cocktail party.
 In New York, of course, some of the criminals will be just as single-minded -- in part because of the harsher conditions in the city. ''When you have to bundle up and fight to get into Manhattan to get to your job, that makes you different than the girl that's in Miami, which is peaceful and placid,'' Ms. Donahue said. ''That's the kind of girl you'll be able to break really quickly.'' 
 As in many episodes of all the shows, solving the crime requires navigating a particular subculture, and tomorrow night Taylor and Caine follow the evidence left by a low-life to a high-rise on Fifth Avenue. An important part of the trail consists of the metallic particles found in the upper respiratory tracts of some downtown New Yorkers, and what ultimately unlocks the secrets of that world is, literally, a key. Each episode of every ''C.S.I.'' contains elements of science unknown to the average viewer -- ''what's going to excite us is something we didn't previously know,'' Ms. Donahue said -- and both are examples of how the shows deal with real-world scientific principles.
 In the case of the keys, the writers wanted something that was specific to New York, not only in terms of evidence, like the respiratory inflammation, but in terms of tone. Since the show often plays up the forensic possibilities of everyday items, keys fit the bill. ''There are so few things that are so New York and one of them is keys,'' Ms. Donahue said, since so many people leave them with neighbors they actually don't know that well. One of the principles of forensics is that objects leave traces of themselves against other objects, as a key might in a lock. ''There's a whole world of locks!'' Ms. Donahue said. And that science, along with, as is usual for ''C.S.I.,'' some bodily fluids best left unmentioned here, help the investigators close in on a motive for the killer.
 By the end of the episode, the truth comes out, in the form of iron-clad evidence that lacks the subjective squishiness of courtroom testimony. That ability to establish truth beyond doubt is how Ms. Donahue said the ''C.S.I.'' writers make their Q-Tip-wielding protagonists seem as heroic as their action-hero counterparts. ''I really believe that what the C.S.I.'s have, thanks to science, is superpowers,'' Ms. Donahue said.
 The show's basis in science won't change, although how that works in the story might play out differently in New York. ''The Sinise character knows that the secret about New York is that people love to talk,'' Ms. Donahue said. ''They want to unburden their secrets, but sometimes they need a reason. And for him, the evidence is that reason. He gets to lay down the evidence and say, 'Look, I know this is hard for you to say, but let me start the story for you.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Sinise, star of this fall's ''C.S.I.: New York,'' makes his debut in tomorrow's ''C.S.I.: Miami.'' (Photo by Eric Liebowitz/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FORENSICS (89%); EVIDENCE (86%); WRITERS (62%) Television; Television; Television

ORGANIZATION: Cbs Corp

PERSON: Robert Levine; Anne Donahue; Carol Mendelsohn; Anthony Zuiker

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



343 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 10; MARKET WEEK

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: As Mortgage Rates Rise, Dreams Are Downsized

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
HOME shoppers have been losing purchasing power week by week because of the surge in mortgage interest rates. Eventually, that should take some of the zip out of the economy.
 Last week, the national average rate on a 30-year mortgage jumped to 6.34 percent, according to Freddie Mac. That is up almost a percentage point from March 18, when the rate was 5.38 percent. Last June, the average was only 5.21 percent, the lowest since Freddie Mac began recording rates in 1971. 
 The increases have already had a big impact on the prices that people can pay for houses. At 5.38 percent, a monthly payment of $1,120.57 would handle a 30-year mortgage of $200,000. At the current rate of 6.34 percent, that same monthly payment would cover a mortgage of only $180,276 -- almost 10 percent less.
 Mortgage rates will move higher, and purchasing power will fall further, if interest rates rise as forecast. Blue Chip Economic Indicators is predicting that the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note will average 5.2 percent in the second quarter of next year. Add 1.5 percentage points to that, which is the way the Mortgage Bankers Association forecasts future mortgage rates, and that equals a mortgage rate of 6.7 percent in next year's second quarter. 
 That would translate into a cut in purchasing power of 13.2 percent since March of this year and 14.8 percent since June 2003.
 Because of the expected climb in rates, the association predicts that sales of existing and new homes, as well as housing starts, will fall modestly by the second quarter of 2005.
 For now, though, the consensus on Wall Street is that rising interest rates have not yet led to a significant slowdown in the construction of new housing. Economists expect only a 1.3 percent decline in April housing starts, which the government reports this week, to an annual rate of 1.980 million, from 2.007 million in March, according to Bloomberg's consensus forecast. That would be just a little below the 1.987 million average for the last six months. 
 LESS TO SPEND Rising mortgage rates have already caused a plunge in the number of mortgage refinancings, which have given Americans billions of extra dollars to spend.
 In 2003, the additional cash from refinancings totaled about $200 billion. In each refinancing in which homeowners took out some cash, the extra pocket money averaged $20,000 to $30,000, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Since the week ended March 19, new refinancing applications have plunged 56 percent, and they are down 78 percent from their record high at the end of last May.
 EXIT LEFT Another casualty of the climb in interest rates has been the high-yield bond market. So far this year, it is showing an overall loss of 1.7 percent, according to Merrill Lynch bond indexes. Since the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note began rising from its 2004 low in March, the high-yield loss has been 3.5 percent. Last year, the total return for high-yield bonds was 28.1 percent, the best ever. 
 Investors have taken notice. In the week ended on Wednesday, they pulled $2.2 billion out of high-yield mutual funds, according to AMG Data Services. That is the second-biggest net weekly outflow in AMG's data history, which goes back to 1992. Compared with the same periods of earlier years, this year's net outflow through Wednesday is the largest ever.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)Graph ''Housing Starts'' tracks the annual rate since 2003 with 2004 projections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE RATES (95%); MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



344 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4; IN PERSON

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Moving On, Down I-95

BYLINE: By J.D. REED

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
AS the academic year winds down, farewells float on the soft spring air, U-Haul trailers rest outside dormitories and students hug goodbye.
 In Nassau Hall, Princeton's 18th-century administration building, Amy Gutmann, the provost, was also preparing to move on after 28 years on the faculty. 
 ''I'm taking these two pictures with me, because of their symbolism,'' said Dr. Gutmann, a slight, vigorous woman with a beaming smile. She pointed to a pair of animal prints on the wall of her office. ''The snow owls in that Audubon print represent wisdom, and the aardvark over there represents a thick skin,'' she said with rueful delight. ''I'm going to need both.'' 
 Indeed she will. On July 1, Dr. Gutmann, a renowned political scientist, philosopher and author, will travel an hour south on Interstate 95 to Philadelphia, where she will become the new president of the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Never mind that I-95 is still a bit of a jumble in this part of the state; it will be a challenging trip in another respect. In the rarefied world of Ivy League presidents, Dr. Gutmann, 54, will be taking over from Penn's dynamic leader for the past decade, Judith Rodin, who transformed the school on the Schuylkill into a university with sizzle. 
 Some in academic circles are scratching their heads at the choice of Dr. Gutmann, who at Princeton was dean of the faculty and provost since 2001, second in command to the president, Shirley Tilghman. They question whether her tenure in the bucolic leafiness of Princeton, with its 5,000 undergraduates and exclusive eating clubs, has sufficiently prepared her to lead Penn, a $4 billion organization and Philadelphia's largest private employer, with 25,000 students and a dozen professional schools. 
 Nor was there a shortage of choices. Although James S. Riepe, board chairman at Penn and vice chairman of the investment firm T. Rowe Price, swore the presidential search committee to secrecy, candidates rumored to be on the short list included former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, a Princeton alumnus and Rhodes scholar, and Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's national security adviser, who had been provost of Stanford University. 
 But Mr. Riepe, who was chairman of the search committee, said he had no doubts about Dr. Gutmann. ''When someone says, 'How are you going to get someone to fill Judy Rodin's shoes?''' said Mr. Riepe, ''I say, 'We don't need to fill her shoes. We need someone to lead us through the challenges of the next decade.' And Amy is the one to do it.''
 Dr. Gutmann also likes the fit. ''Right now it is the hot Ivy; they opted for energy over wisdom,'' she said with a laugh. ''No one has accused me of not having energy.'' 
 Even her birthplace seemed right. ''After I had been unanimously elected by the board of trustees, but before it had been publicly announced, we were finally relaxing,'' she recalled. ''One of the trustees leaned over and asked, 'By the way, where were you born?' I told him, 'Brooklyn.' He said, 'We're all from Brooklyn.'''
 Dr. Gutmann's path from the streets of Brooklyn to Eisenlohr Hall, the official residence of Penn presidents, has been an unusual journey. Her father, Kurt Gutmann, fled Germany with his family in 1934 and settled in Bombay, where he founded a metal fabricating factory. On a trip to New York in 1948, he met his future wife, Beatrice.
 ''But he didn't like the big city at all,'' Dr. Gutmann said. ''He was suspicious of it. So we soon moved to Monroe, New York.'' An hour's drive northwest of Brooklyn, Monroe was a tiny town of 4,000 at the time. ''The Woodbury Common, where everyone goes for discount shopping, is across the street from Monroe-Woodbury Central High School, where I attended,'' she explained. 
 After high school, Dr. Gutmann entered the Ivy League by a fluke. ''My father had died the year before I graduated,'' she recalled. ''I applied to Stony Brook and other in-state schools because they were all my mother was able to afford. But she was bragging about me, as mothers will, to our doctor, who told her that Ivy League schools give scholarships.''
 An application later, Ms. Gutmann was accepted at Radcliffe College, where the young math whiz began as a sophomore. 
 ''I was attracted to the social sciences," she recalled. ''But being good with numbers has been a great help in administration.'' 
 She went on to earn a master's degree from the London School of Economics, and returned to Harvard for her doctorate. There she met Michael Doyle, a political scientist who today is the Harold Brown professor of law and international affairs at Columbia University. They wed in 1976, and have a daughter, Abigail, a doctoral student in chemistry at Harvard. 
 For Mr. Doyle, a seasoned Princeton-New York commuter, the move to Philadelphia will mean a change of train lines. ''He now takes New Jersey Transit,'' said Dr. Gutmann. ''After we move he will switch to Amtrak.''
 The move means a great deal more for Dr. Gutmann. 
 ''Dr. Rodin has set the bar very high,'' said Dr. Arthur Rubenstein, dean of the medical school and a search committee member. ''So it's a big challenge for Amy. It's easier to go from middle to high, but hard to go from high to higher.''
 In some aspects, Dr. Gutmann was a natural. A high priority was to find a well-known scholar who could attract the best of faculty to Penn while retaining its current roster. ''She has impeccable academics,'' said Dr. Rubenstein. 
 Indeed, the polymath and peripatetic Dr. Gutmann has held the Laurance S. Rockefeller professorship of politics at Princeton; taught political thought, philosophy and ethics; and founded the University Center for Human Values, a multidisciplinary center that supports scholarship and public lectures. She has also been a fellow at the Institute For Advanced Study.
 But the world of a university president extends far beyond the classroom. Like other college leaders, much of Dr. Gutmann's time and considerable energy will be spent raising funds. She hastens to point out that she has earned her stripes there, too, eliciting $100 million for Princeton's Center for Human Values.
 And while Princeton has an endowment of $8.3 billion, just behind Harvard and Yale, Penn weighs in at $3.5 billion, ninth in the nation -- behind the University of Texas. 
 The number is even more deceiving. ''Because of its small size,'' Mr. Riepe said. ''Princeton can pay for 90 percent of its scholarships from the income on its endowment. Penn can fund only 14 percent. The balance has to come out of operating funds. In that regard we are about 60th.'' 
 In addition, Penn is a vast enterprise, one of the largest landowners in Philadelphia. Its health care system alone includes the nation's second-ranked medical school and two renowned teaching hospitals. There are also top-ranked schools of law, business, nursing, education and design. 
 She has received advice from college presidents past and present, including Dr. Tilghman and Dr. Rodin. ''They all apologize and say, 'I'm going to give you some free advice,''' she said. ''I say, 'Don't apologize! I need it all!'''
 Dr. Gutmann said she and Mr. Doyle are looking forward to moving. ''We're ready for the urban dynamic,'' she said. 
 Still, she will miss her friends of 28 years. Just days earlier, a group including Dr. Tilghman; Harold Shapiro, a former president of Princeton; and Peter Singer, the ethicist and philosopher, gave the couple a farewell brunch. Lionel Grossman, a former chairman of romance languages, composed a poem, which said:
 Let's all raise our glass,
 To a leader of class
 Penn's future great president
 Our hearts' permanent resident.
 Is there anything she won't miss?
 ''The deer,'' said Dr. Gutmann. ''They've ruined my front yard. I'm glad they're not coming to Philadelphia.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''They opted for energy over wisdom,'' Amy Gutmann, the provost at Princeton who has been chosen to lead the University of Pennsylvania, said with a laugh. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MAMMALS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) Colleges and Universities; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%) Princeton University; University of Pennsylvania

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Amy Gutmann; J D Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



345 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7; In the Region/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Another Part of Hoboken Is Luring Developers

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
AS this port city continues to transform its image from dockside rowdiness to urban chic, less and less likely areas keep emerging as development hot spots.
 Waterfront property is virtually all covered or spoken for -- gone to apartment and condominium complexes with their own parks and retail strips, all claiming skyline views of Manhattan; to office buildings just a short stroll from the diverse restaurants and shops on Washington Street; and to a planned W Hotel at the edge of the Hudson River.
 In addition, the developers Toll Brothers and Pinnacle Downtown plan to tear down the former Maxwell House coffee plant on the waterfront and build 962 apartments with a full-service spa, concierge service, parking and more than 200,000 square feet of office and retail space.
 MOST recently, developers have been focusing on the dilapidated former manufacturing area at the northwest end of town, gutting and rehabbing the big brick carcasses of industry and competing to buy empty lots for construction. The area west of Willow Avenue back to the Palisades Cliffs, occupied by old warehouses and a few rooming houses that survived an era when frequent fires caused the loss of a number of wooden buildings on these streets, is quickly becoming thick with condos, health clubs and bistros catering to a new breed of Hoboken resident. 
 Hoboken is still considered a relative bargain by Manhattanites, brokers say, and continues to attract large numbers of younger people who commute to jobs in Manhattan and partake of the lively night life here. Nearly 70 percent of residents are renters, many of them ensconced in historic brownstones and converted factories.
 Just now, the still somewhat seedy area along Park Avenue near where it intersects a viaduct that becomes 14th Street is heating up as a center of redevelopment. This part of town more or less serves as the gateway to Hoboken for drivers coming off Interstate 495 before it enters the Lincoln Tunnel. 
 ''The area is definitely not prettified yet,'' said Jerry Rockoff of Robert K. Futterman & Associates, a New York-based real estate agency that is working with developers to lease potential retail space at Park Avenue and 14th Street. On the other hand, Mr. Rockoff noted, the property is ''highly visible and located at a heavily traveled intersection, next to what is becoming a prime residential market.''
 The location also offers retail property a rare amenity in this car-choked community: off-street parking.
 The Teaneck-based developer Lawrence J. Bijou, who owns two vacant factory buildings along with the 500-space, five-story Park on Park parking structure on Park Avenue, calls parking the chief obstacle for Hoboken merchants concentrated along Washington Street. ''I can provide ample spots for cars in the garage and on the surface lot behind our buildings at Park and 14th,'' he said. ''This is kind of unheard of.''
 The two former factory buildings owned by his company, Bijou Properties, are in what was a food-processing district. The first, called the Hostess Building, once housed the Continental Baking Company, which produced Twinkies and cupcakes. It occupies a block of 14th Street between Park and Garden Street, and was bought by Bijou two years ago.
 Last month, Bijou bought the Coconut Building on 14th Street, just across Garden Street from the Hostess Building.
 Neither Mr. Bijou nor Mr. Rockoff has been able to discover why it is called that. However, the faded words ''Coconut Desiccation'' appear above the loading dock and several Hoboken history buffs who frequent the diner across the street said they assumed that coconuts arriving at the docks were processed and dried for packaging there.
 The former Lipton Tea Building, which holds a prominent spot between the Hostess building and the Shipyard apartment complex on the waterfront, was converted three years ago into 527 high-end condominiums and renamed the Hudson Tea Building. Two or three residential towers with 800 more units plus a parking deck are scheduled to go up on adjacent vacant land owned by Credit Suisse First Boston, the investment bank. 
 Mr. Bijou plans to add yet more residents to the neighborhood by putting 28 large apartment lofts on the top four floors of the Coconut. The ground floor will provide 10,000 square feet for retail tenants chosen to serve the needs of the nearby residents, he said.
 At the 100-year-old Hostess plant at 210 14th Street, Mr. Rockoff has leased most of the space before renovations have even begun. New York Sports Club will take the whole 23,500-square-foot second story for its second Hoboken center. An Eckerd drugstore will occupy 14,236 square feet at street level, Mr. Rockoff said, leaving only 4,464 feet available.
 ''This new location will complement New York Sports Club's other site on the opposite side of the city, allowing the health club to serve the entire Hoboken community,'' Mr. Rockoff said.
 Eckerd, a subsidiary of the J. C. Penney Company, which has been expanding into new communities in New Jersey, will open its doors in October, as will the sports club, also part of a growing national chain. Eckerd signed a 15-year lease and the sports club a 20-year lease.
 MR. BIJOU said he was focusing his investment on two blocks because he liked to be ''the driving force to some change in one area.''
 ''Bringing industrial property back to life is a good thing, a positive thing, for a community,'' he said. ''And these buildings are handsome, great brick facades, large windows.''
 The area has nonpareil mass transit connections, Mr. Bijou said. The Lincoln Tunnel to Manhattan is a two-minute drive away, with shuttle service available; there is ferry service down the street at the Shipyard; and light rail and PATH train service is within blocks.
 According to the 2000 census, 43.9 percent of Hoboken residents travel to work on public transit.
 Updated census figures indicate that Hoboken now has about 81,000 residents and that most of the housing stock -- 58 percent -- is more than 50 years old. Meanwhile, its population is relatively young, with 48 percent concentrated in the 21 to 44 age group, and a median age of 31.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 16 about commercial development in Hoboken, N.J., misstated the city's population. It is 39,507, according to current state estimates. The figure of 81,000 was an estimate of population within a mile of a development site in the northwest section of the city. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence J. Bijou, left, and Jerry Rockoff in former bakery where a New York Sports Club and Eckerd drugstore will take space. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)Map of New Jersey highlighting Hoboken and area of planned stores and apartments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); COFFEE (70%) Real Estate; Housing; Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Hoboken (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



346 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Do You Love Me?

BYLINE: By Joyce Carol Oates. 
Joyce Carol Oates's most recent novel is ''Rape: A Love Story.''

 BODY:

TRUTH & BEAUTY
A Friendship.
By Ann Patchett.
257 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $23.95.
 OURS is a memoir-obsessed literary culture. With the waning of confessional poetry, what we might call the ''memoir of crisis'' has blossomed. The strongest of these may be beautifully composed, but beauty is hardly the point. As Robert Lowell famously remarked, ''Yet why not say what happened?''
 Lucy Grealy's ''Autobiography of a Face,'' published in 1994 when she was 31, has become a classic of this genre. Here indeed is a beautifully composed work of literature, a sequence of interlocking essays that explore the author's experiences as a survivor of a disfiguring facial cancer, making pathology a mirror of the human condition. ''Autobiography of a Face'' is also a moving meditation on ugliness and beauty, of particular significance in a culture obsessed with the outward self.
 Stricken with Ewing's sarcoma at the age of 9, Grealy endured years of radiation and chemotherapy followed by a series of reconstructive operations, most of them unsuccessful. Yet it was the anguish of being perceived as ugly, and of feeling ugly, that she identified as the tragedy of her life: ''I was my face, I was ugliness.'' Viciously teased and tormented at school and even as an adult gawked at and occasionally insulted on the street, Grealy came to feel that her suffering as a cancer patient had been minor in comparison.
 In all, Grealy would endure 38 operations until, exhausted and demoralized and increasingly dependent on drugs, she died of an apparent heroin overdose in December 2002 at the age of 39. She had attempted suicide several times and had more or less abandoned her once-promising literary career. As Ann Patchett observes in her memoir of their 17-year friendship, Lucy ''had a nearly romantic relationship with Death. She had beaten it out so many times that she was convinced she could go and kiss it all she wanted and still come out on the other side. . . . She believed that the most basic rules of life did not apply to her.''
 ''Truth & Beauty'' is a harrowing document, composed in a spare, forthright style very different from the elegant artifice of Patchett's best-known novels, ''The Magician's Assistant'' and ''Bel Canto.'' It begins in 1985, when Patchett and Grealy, both recent graduates of Sarah Lawrence, enroll in the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop and room together in an effort to economize. At Sarah Lawrence, Grealy had been famous, not just for the heroic drama of her face but because she was the smartest student in all her classes; by her own modest account, Patchett was less well known.
 From the start, Patchett perceives herself and Grealy as radically different types: ''We were a pairing out of an Aesop's fable, the grasshopper and the ant, the tortoise and the hare. And sure, maybe the ant was warmer in the winter and the tortoise won the race, but everyone knows that the grasshopper and the hare were infinitely more appealing.''
 Patchett is the diligent ant, Grealy the insouciant grasshopper. At their initial meeting in Iowa, though they scarcely know each other, Grealy runs to pitch herself into Patchett's embrace: ''When I turned around to say hello, she shot through the door with a howl. In a second she was in my arms, leaping up onto me, her arms locked around my neck, her legs wrapped around my waist, 95 pounds that felt no more than 30. . . . It was not a greeting as much as it was a claim: she was staking out this spot on my chest as her own and I was to hold her for as long as she wanted to stay.''
 Through the turbulent years of their friendship, Grealy will continue to pitch herself into Patchett's protective arms, and Patchett will hold her for as long as she is able.
 It can be no surprise that the memoir of a friendship that ends in the premature death of a gifted writer does not make for cheerful reading. And yet there is much in ''Truth & Beauty'' that is uplifting, a testament to the perennial idealism and optimism of the young. Lucy, Patchett tells us, ''was absolutely committed to the idea that writing would be her salvation and that she was obligated to pull herself out of all her present miseries with the sheer strength of her will and talent.'' The solace of art to the lonely and dissatisfied is wonderfully rendered: ''We had each come to realize that no one was going to save our lives, and that if we wanted to save them ourselves, we had only one skill that afforded us any hope at all. Writing is a job, a talent, but it's also the place to go in your head. It is the imaginary friend you drink your tea with in the afternoon.''
 Showcased within Patchett's plain prose, Grealy's letters glow with the energy of a quirkily original voice: ''Dearest anvil, dearest deposed president of some new defunct but lovingly remembered country, dearest to me, I can find no suitable words of affection for you, words that will contain the whole of your wonderfulness to me. You will have to make due with being my favorite bagel, my favorite blue awning above some great little cafe where the coffee is strong but milky and had real texture to it.''
 The juxtaposing of these very different voices makes the memoir an inspired duet: the reader sees Grealy through Patchett's eyes, yet hears Grealy directly in her own voice. The astute, eloquent, self-scrutinizing Lucy Grealy of ''Autobiography of a Face'' doesn't quite prepare the reader for the Lucy Grealy who emerges from these pages. Here is an antic, fey, restless, demanding and exasperating child-woman. Like a Carson McCullers character, part waif, part vampire, Grealy demands constant attention:
 ''As much as Lucy liked my friends, it was important for her to know at every moment that she was my uncontested favorite. There was nothing subtle in her methodology. . . . Lucy would inevitably leave her chair at some point during the meal and come and sit in my lap. . . . Lucy would lean her head against my chest and turn her eyes up to me. 'Do you love me?' she said. 'Of course I love you.' 'Best?' 'Yes, best, but you are crushing my thigh.' Lucy sighed, contented now, and continued her conversation . . . from the comfortable vantage point of my lap, eating what she could off my plate.''
 Though ''Truth & Beauty'' is a memoir in which love is omnipresent, it may remind some readers of Ted Hughes's controversial ''Birthday Letters'' to Sylvia Plath in its way of relentlessly exposing what might be described as flaws in its subject's character. The Lucy Grealy of this book is a wholly self-absorbed young woman who borrows money she has no intention of returning and shoplifts books at poetry readings. Unpaid bills accumulate in her wake like the careless litter that infests her apartment, in which even cherished Prada dresses wind up ''all knotted up together on the floor of her closet.'' When Grealy is too depressed to open her long-accumulated mail, Patchett heroically offers to do so; the next day, hundreds of letters and bills turn up in a large Fed Ex box.
 Grealy is something of an adventuress, so needy for a man's love that she will have sex with virtual strangers; she is continually asking Patchett, ''Will I ever have sex again?'' even on days when, as Patchett points out, she has already had sex. ''But I want to know if I'm going to have it again,'' she replies.
 As Grealy's physical and mental health deteriorate, her friendship with Patchett takes on an aura of symbiotic romance. Patchett helps nurse Grealy in appallingly understaffed hospitals, and when Grealy is discharged she carries her to and from her apartment: ''Lucy was never happier than in the moments she was held and despite everything she had been through, she was incredibly happy to be out on the street in my arms. . . . There wasn't any trick to it. She was a sparrow, a match. The trick would have been to figure out a way to do it all the time so that she could have always been happy.'' Patchett appeals to Lucy to come live with her in Nashville: ''I wanted to keep her as much for myself as for her.''
 The flurry of fame in the wake of ''Autobiography of a Face'' brings some brief happiness into Grealy's life, but by the late 1990's, after continued surgeries, post-op depressions and romantic disappointments, she becomes addicted to OxyContin and finally, lethally, to heroin: ''Lucy was having the great love affair she had always dreamed of. It was dangerous and rocky, violently depleting, but in the few minutes that it was sweet it made her feel the all encompassing heat of love.'' By this time, Patchett, disapproving of her friend's drug use, is no longer in constant communication with her. When Grealy dies, alone, in a friend's apartment, Patchett is stunned and guilt-ridden. Suddenly she is left to ponder ''the second half of my life, the half that would be lived without Lucy'' -- lived without her but still haunted by her, as this riveting book makes plain.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucy Grealy (left) and Ann Patchett, ''The Grasshopper And The Ant.'' (Photograph by Jill Krementz/from ''Truth & Beauty: A Friendship'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); CANCER (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); POETRY (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); CANCER DRUGS (74%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (74%); RADIOLOGY (69%); SUICIDE (65%); HEROIN (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Joyce Carol Oates; Ann Patchett

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



347 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: TIGHT OIL SUPPLY WON'T EASE SOON

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
Two dollars for a gallon of gas? Get used to it. High fuel prices are here to stay, at least for the near future, because no relief is in sight for tight oil supplies.
 Most oil-producing countries and the major oil companies already produce all they can. Smaller companies and wildcatters are reopening some mothballed wells, but their combined output is not nearly enough to affect the global supply. What little spare capacity there is is almost entirely in Saudi Arabia, which is willing to pump more -- but the extra oil it could produce quickly is too heavy in sulfur for the main consuming nations.
 The world economy has learned to roll with oil price spikes, so long as they are short-lived. But sustained high fuel costs will strain its ability to cope, experts say, and the current run-up is already starting to bite. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, for example, said last week that higher gasoline prices in the United States had taken an average of $7 a week out of the pockets of its customers, leaving them less to spend on other goods. Sales of some of the largest and most gas-hungry sport utility vehicles were down last month, compared with a year earlier. The nation's trade deficit widened to $46 billion in March, largely because of oil imports. And in Britain, the government is making contingency plans in case of mass protests against high fuel prices, the trade journal Platts Oilgram News reported Friday.
 The oil industry is constantly looking for new supplies, and with crude oil closing at a record high of $41.38 a barrel in New York on Friday, producers have plenty of economic incentive to step up output. But developing a new oil field takes time, and energy companies can do little to rush projects, industry experts said.
 Marathon Oil, a large independent company based in Houston, is pumping its fields flat out -- the equivalent of 365,000 barrels a day, counting crude oil and natural gas. That includes new fields in Russia that produce 15,000 barrels a day. Those fields have the potential to yield an additional 45,000 barrels, but only after five more years of investment and work, said Paul Weeditz, a company spokesman. Marathon's new projects in West Africa will take even longer. 
 ''Companies are always under pressure to grow production, so they are always trying to bring new wells on,'' Mr Weeditz said. ''Many people may think it's a matter of turning the tap on and off, and that there's excess capacity, but that's just not the case.''
 Major oil producing areas like the North Sea and Nigeria, which produce the most desirable type of oil, known as light sweet crude for its low sulfur content, are operating at capacity. So are many of the refineries that turn the oil into usable fuels. 
 United States refineries were running at 96 percent of maximum output in April, the Energy Department said. As a result, wholesale gasprices reached record highs last week, and those prices are quickly passed along to consumers at the pump. 
 ''The worrying part is that no end is in sight for the oil price rally,'' said Jan Stuart, director of energy research at Fimat USA, the brokerage unit of Societe Generale. ''Whatever is driving this upward, those factors are not changing: high demand, lower inventories, supply that is constrained, and only in part by OPEC decisions, and turmoil in the Middle East.''
 Those price records are not adjusted for inflation. Several times in the 1970's and 1980's, prices hit what would be higher levels if converted into today's money. But those spikes occurred when supplies were disrupted by the Arab oil embargo and the Iran-Iraq war. With world demand so strong today and spare capacity so slim, the oil market is highly vulnerable to any new supply disruptions.
 Many oil traders worry that terrorists may sabotage oil facilities, sending prices to new highs that could throttle the economic recovery. Since the situation in Iraq flared up last month, oil has become a prime target there. Suicide bombers tried to attack an offshore Iraqi oil terminal in late April, then blew up a major pipeline near Basra last week. Even more troubling, industry experts say, was the killing of foreign and Saudi oil workers at the Yanbu oil hub in Saudi Arabia.
 ''This is the only spare capacity you have in the world,'' said Fareed Mohamedi, chief economist for PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm, referring to the Saudi oil industry. ''So you're going to be nervous if there is any hint of disruption.'' 
 Oil traders estimate that unrest in the Middle East has added a ''risk premium'' to the price of oil of $4 to $8 a barrel. Yet even without that turbulence, the price of oil would probably still be higher now than it has been in years, given global demand, industry experts said. 
 The unexpectedly sharp rise, to more than $40 a barrel today from less than $30 a barrel just 18 months ago, has not noticeably slowed the economic recovery in the developed world. Most industries over the last two decades have found ways to improve efficiency, producing far more goods with the same amount of energy, and the United States has had a major shift from energy-intensive industries toward the service sector.
 Even so, the world's appetite for oil is growing at its fastest rate in 16 years, according to the International Energy Agency, which tracks oil markets and stockpiles for industrialized countries. It forecast that the world would consume two million more barrels a day this year than in 2003, or 80.6 million barrels a day in all. China's great economic growth is behind much of that increase, and few analysts foresaw that either China's boom or America's recovery would be quite so robust, said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York.
 That roaring demand has eaten deeply into oil supplies. Despite lower official quotas, nearly all the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are producing as much oil as possible to cash in on the high prices, and most major non-OPEC producers are doing the same. Russia, which is not an OPEC member, is something of an exception, but it is constrained by how much oil it can export through its pipelines and railways, all of them running at or near their limits. Venezuela, an OPEC member, is theoretically able to produce more oil, but its state oil company was crippled last year by a strike and an unsuccessful attempt to oust the country's president, and it has not recovered fully. 
 Analysts say that at most 2 million to 2.5 million barrels a day of spare capacity could sustain production for any length of time. Nearly all of it is in Saudi Arabia; the rest is mainly in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates.
 For years, whatever the markets needed to stay on an even keel, the Kingdom of Saud provided. But since the late 1990's, the country has started to pursue a more independent oil policy. To increase its oil revenue and support a growing population and a generous welfare state, Saudi Arabia has chosen to hold back some production and let the price of oil rise, said Leonidas F. Drollas, chief economist with the Center for Global Energy Studies, a London consulting business. OPEC as a whole, led by Saudi Arabia, tried to cut output and make it hard for refineries to build oil stocks, driving prices higher.
 But with the price of oil at $40 a barrel and more, the Saudis are clearly unnerved. Mr. Goldstein said they are trying to sell more oil now, but have found few takers, because of the high sulfur content of their crude. Instead, refineries in China and the United States are competing for the more limited pool of low-sulfur oil. ''There is no sweet crude spare capacity anywhere in the world,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''There is no cushion for the next surprise.''
 Major oil companies are not bringing on new wells now to take advantage of high prices, said Ann-Louise Hittle, head of macro oils at Wood Mackenzie, a consulting firm in Edinburgh. Burned in the past by price spikes that proved ephemeral, the oil industry has become extremely reluctant to invest in wells that would be unprofitable at low prices, so it has none to reopen now. 
 Increasingly, the best prospects for new oil have proved to be in places that are off limits to major foreign oil companies, said Edward D. Porter, research manager for the American Petroleum Institute, a lobbying group in Washington.
 While production is declining in areas like the North Sea and the lower 48 states, many of the most promising fields are in the Middle East. Oil companies have shelved hopes of even looking around Iraq soon because of the violence there and uncertainty about the future. Elsewhere in the region, most notably Saudi Arabia, domestic political infighting about foreign involvement in the national oil patrimony has kept out major Western companies. 
 The oil companies will keep hunting, but a significant easing of tight supplies may be several years away, industry experts say.
 ''You can't change this overnight,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''We need investment in sweet crude production or in refineries to process high sulfur crude, but there's a gestation period. Oil producers didn't think high prices were sustainable, but now they are coming to think they are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gas prices are rising from Chicago, left, to Beijing, and are expected to continue to do so because of a limited supply of oil although most oil-producing countries and the major oil companies are producing all they can. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Industry Profiles; Production; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (74%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (74%); WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CHINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) China; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



348 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 7; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: O.K., Investors, Who's Afraid of a Rate Increase?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IT'S easy to obsess about an interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve. But let's not overdo it.
 Sure, rising interest rates won't help stocks over the short term, not after the Fed has pampered the market with the lowest interest rates in decades. But, all the hand-wringing aside, stocks fared better than many people might think in the eight periods of Fed rate increases since 1971. 
 This time around, the market faces plenty of other problems that could contribute to losses. These include the threat of rising inflation, $40-a-barrel oil, the war in Iraq and the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal.
 But history does indicate that the Fed can contain damage to the stock market by convincing investors that its rate increases will be gradual. 
 In six of the Fed's rate-tightening episodes, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was higher a month after the Fed stopped raising rates than it was before the central bank started tightening. The gains ranged from 4.3 percent, from May 1983 to August 1984, to 16.4 percent, from December 1986 to February 1989. The average gain was 9.4 percent. These are mediocre returns at best, but they are not the stuff of bear markets. 
 And any stock declines within these six episodes were relatively small, when calculated from the starting point. The biggest came during that 1986-89 period, which includes the 1987 crash: a fall of 9.8 percent in the S.&P. 500 from November 1986 to December 1987. The average was 4.7 percent.
 The last Fed tightening began in June 1999 and ended in May 2000, as the technology bubble was bursting. The S.&P. 500 rose 13.2 percent over all for that period, although the bear market began in March 2000. But the rate increases contributed only a little to the damage that followed. 
 Of the two rate-tightening episodes that had overall stock-market declines, the first was during the 1973-75 recession. With inflation rising at double-digit annual rates, the S.&P. 500 plunged 26.6 percent into a bear market.
 In the other period, from December 1976 to March 1980, the Fed raised its benchmark rate to 20 percent. The S.&P. 500 was down 15.8 percent by March 1978, but recovered enough to reduce its overall decline for the period to 2.4 percent.
 In the past, the Fed mitigated the damage of rising rates by calming investors. In 2003, as the bond market fretted about a potential Fed rate increase, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note shot up 1.5 percentage points, to 4.60 percent, from June 16 to Sept. 2.
 But after the Fed pledged to keep the benchmark rate low ''for a considerable period,'' the path of Treasury yields reversed, with the yield on the 10-year note falling to 3.68 percent in March of this year.
 So if the Fed decides in June to adopt its first rate increase since May 2000, the policy makers will have to remind investors of the pledge they made this month to be ''measured'' in raising their benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks.
 ''Measured'' probably means four quarter-point rate increases by the end of this year and two more in the first six months of 2005. But the rising rate of inflation could make Fed restraint difficult.
 At the moment, Fed officials don't seem very concerned about inflation, although it has accelerated this year, with consumer prices up at an annual rate of 4.4 percent through April. That speedup has prompted some analysts to argue that the Fed is not moving fast enough to stem the price tide.
 If inflation continued to quicken -- the April increase in the Producer Price Index for finished goods was much larger than predicted -- then expectations of future inflation would rise, as well. Investors would worry that policy makers would try to catch up with bigger and faster rate increases, bringing back memories of the surge in rates in 1994. 
 Still, 1994 was not as bad for stocks as some memories might suggest. From February 1994 to February 1995, the Fed funds rate doubled, to 6 percent. Treasuries lost 3.3 percent in 1994, the worst return in the last 25 years. The S.&P. 500, however, was down only 6 percent at its low and had a gain of 4 percent for the cycle. 
 History is on the Fed's side. But with inflation bubbling, the job of calming investors will not be easy.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Stocks and Interest Rates''In most recent periods when the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates, the stock market has still managed to climb.Graph tracks the change in the S.& P. 500-Stock index (for periods generally beginning one month before and ending one month after Fed rate-tightening) from 1977 - 2000.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (74%); SCANDALS (55%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



349 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Steps In to Cut Flight Delays at O'Hare

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
COMPETITION as stiff as the wind off Lake Michigan made traveling through Chicago a nightmare for airline passengers this winter.Now, the federal government has taken a step to ease the spring skies over one of the nation's busiest cities. 
 Yet, experts warn the action may not be enough to avoid delays when the hectic summer season arrives. 
 In March, the Department of Transportation ordered the number of flights at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago decreased by 5 percent between 1 and 7 p.m. The order came down in January, when schedules became too clogged for O'Hare to handle, largely due to competition for passengers between American Airlines and United Airlines. 
 The airport -- the country's second busiest behind Hartsfield International in Atlanta -- is a battleground for both American and United, which have been determined to grab more business there.
 The stakes are high for both airlines, which have suffered deep losses since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. From then through the end of 2003, air traffic nationwide fell 7 percent from the record levels of 2000. 
 But traffic at many of the nation's busiest airports is rebounding, due in part to the growing presence of low-fare carriers like JetBlue and Southwest. Many airlines have been restoring flights, betting that a strengthening economy will bring more business travelers back this summer. 
 Extra flights caused headaches at O'Hare last fall, where American and United, which collectively have about 80 percent of the flights there, expanded their schedules. For years, federal officials capped the number of flights allowed at O'Hare, which as far back as 1969 exceeded the number that the airport was designed to handle.
 But those limits were removed in 1999 until the summer of 2000, when bad weather, labor strife at United and clogged schedules combined to make travel difficult. After Sept. 11, the limits were removed, but by last fall, more people were flying again, and in November, United and American collectively added 75 flights a day at the airport, according to BACK Aviation, an industry consulting group.
 Last October, American had 471 daily departures on average; by January, that had swelled to 527, about 12 percent more a day. United increased its departures to 636 in January from 617 in October, or 3 percent.
 The additions were more than O'Hare could handle. In January, only 58 percent of flights from O'Hare left on schedule and just 52 percent landed on time, according to the Transportation Department. (It defines an on-time flight as arriving or departing within 15 minutes of its scheduled time.) That was dead last among the 31 largest airports in the United States. And it was a big contrast to October, before the push to add flights, when 81 percent of departures and 78 percent of arrivals were on time.
 The mess at O'Hare triggered a 10 percent increase in delays at the country's other top airports, the department's statistics showed. Of the nation's flights that were chronically late in January -- those that are behind schedule four times out of five - 85 percent originated or wound up at O'Hare.
 The federal transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, deemed the Chicago situation ''unacceptable'' in announcing the repair plan on Jan. 31. 
 United and American agreed to remove a total of 62 flights from peak travel hours. Neither dropped any destinations, but their actions meant that a number of places had fewer flights, particularly smaller cities served by their regional carriers.
 Even before the government's directive, though, both American and United were working on improving the flow at O'Hare, which industry executives argue is long overdue for an expansion. State and city officials are touting a $2.9 billion plan, backed by the airlines, to add a new runway, relocate existing ones and add a terminal. 
 Some of the financing would come from sharply higher ticket prices, however. And a number of critics, including two Illinois Congressmen -- Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican, and Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., a Democrat -- contend that the real answer is to build a new airport south of Chicago.
 But that solution may not be addressed for years and in the meantime, airlines deal with O'Hare in their own ways. Two years ago, American put its schedules at O'Hare through ''depeaking,'' essentially a smoothing out of arrival and departure times so that flights do not all arrive and leave in narrow windows. United began its own depeaking process at O'Hare this February.
 In late March, Secretary Mineta said flight delays had been reduced 30 percent at O'Hare, which he called a promising start. The restrictions, originally set to run through September, have been extended another month. 
 But Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y, says that if the government doesn't keep a close watch on flights, O'Hare might topple right back into the same fix it faced last fall. ''The question will be,'' he said, ''are there times of day where they can put them back in and not make a bad situation worse?'' 
 Without restraint by the airlines, the government ''could be in the position of regulating the carriers, even though they aren't supposed to be regulated,'' he added. ''They will have to find an acceptable detente.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (92%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR FARES (78%); WEATHER (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); TERRORISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; O'Hare International Airport (Chicago); Airports; Delays (Transportation)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%) United Airlines; American Airlines Inc; Transportation Department (US)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



350 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 5; NEWS AND ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Why the Saudis May Not Rescue Oil Markets This Time

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
SAUDI ARABIA'S oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, is not given to making bland comments about the price of oil. So, after he suggested last week that OPEC increase production in an effort to bring down the highest oil prices in 13 years, global energy markets scrambled to sort out the implications of what he had said. 
 Were the Saudis trying to force the hand of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which convenes informally in Amsterdam next weekend, ahead of a meeting in Beirut in June? Was Mr. Naimi signaling that Saudi Arabia was prepared to increase its own production soon, easing policies that have generated a windfall for his nation over the last two years? 
 Global demand for oil is growing faster than at any time in the last 15 years, fueled by robust economies in China and India and a recovery in the United States, according to the International Energy Agency. Now energy industry executives are waiting to see whether Saudi Arabia can make the difference it once did. 
 ''Saudi Arabia is still the greatest swing player, in terms of quickly being able to get the spigot on and off,'' said Adam Sieminski, an energy strategist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''They're fierce in trying to protect their influence and market share, but, like the rest of us, they've been working in an incredibly volatile geopolitical scene.''
 Saudi Arabia rarely fails to remind the markets that it is the only producer with enough spare capacity to have a rapid effect on oil prices by increasing or decreasing production. Technicians in the control room at the headquarters of Saudi Aramco, the national oil company, assert that in about 48 hours, and without much effort, they can increase output by 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day. Saudi Arabia already accounts for about one-tenth of the world's oil production, with more than 8 million barrels a day.
 Although Saudi Arabia's spare daily capacity is roughly equivalent to the oil produced each day by Iraq's entire oil industry after a year of laborious repairs, global demand is only one factor for the Saudis to weigh. There are also concerns about their own economy, which is prospering from higher prices, and domestic politics, which make it difficult to be regarded as accommodating the United States. Crude oil futures reached a high of $41.56 a barrel on Friday, the highest price since 1983.
 Also to be considered are Saudi Arabia's relations with other Arab states and other OPEC members, as well as concern about the instability in neighboring Iraq. Finally, there are the purely mechanical calculations about what an increase in output might mean for its oil fields' long-term viability, which has come under question in recent months by geological experts. Saudi oil officials say their fields will remain highly productive for decades.
 The debate over increasing production comes as the nation is reaping the benefits of high oil prices. The Saudi economy is in its most pronounced expansion since the early 1980's: after growing 6.4 percent in 2003, the economy is expected to expand at least 1 percent this year and perhaps more if prices stay high, according to estimates from the Samba Financial Group, a banking organization in Riyadh. 
 Revenue from oil exports, $80 billion last year and perhaps more than $90 billion this year, is fueling much of the expansion. The federal government, which posted a budget surplus of $12 billion last year, its first in three years, is expected to have another surplus this year, of about $5.5 billion, allowing it to finance a variety of social programs for a fast-growing population.
 Experts on Saudi Arabia say it would be difficult for the government to forgo such inflows of cash. Those revenues, which are also needed to combat domestic terrorism threats, might signal a desire to keep oil prices relatively elevated for years. ''They're probably a little uncomfortable with the price at $40, but $30 to $35 would be O.K.,'' said Jean-Francois Seznec, an authority on Saudi Arabia and a professor at Columbia University. ''They don't want to get to the point where consumers start thinking about switching to other fuel sources.''
 One of the most alarming possibilities for Saudi oil officials would be a new version of the ''Jakarta syndrome,'' the term for what happened when OPEC raised production in 1997 just before the sharp decline in Asian demand. Oil prices subsequently fell as low as $10 a barrel before recovering, prompting criticism that officials had erred by kowtowing to American political and economic concerns. 
 In fact, since the terrorist attacks in September 2001, the influence of the United States in Saudi Arabia's economy and internal affairs appears to be weakening a bit. American companies built much of the modern Saudi economy -- Saudi Arabia Airlines started as a unit of T.W.A., for example, and Aramco began as a venture of four American oil companies. Recently, however, European, Chinese and Russian companies have won important contracts in areas like natural-gas exploration. It is also less clear than it used to be that concerns over gasoline prices in the United States influence Saudi Arabia to produce more or less oil. 
 ''The almost automatic solicitude for an American president's request is a thing of the past,'' said Gregory Gause, an expert on Saudi Arabia and a political science professor at the University of Vermont. ''The prominent consideration now, as far as oil prices are concerned, is whether it's in the country's economic self-interest to have them where they're at.'' 
 In this context, it is perhaps easier to understand the comments of Mr. Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, who called on OPEC to increase production by 1.5 million barrels a day, to 25 million. But OPEC's members are already flouting output quotas, producing an estimated 25.7 million barrels a day in an effort to seize upon robust demand and high prices. An extra million or two million barrels a day would do relatively little to relieve prices in the near term unless demand softened significantly.
 An indication of whether oil industry executives think Saudi Arabia is about to force a quick decline in oil prices came last week, at a luncheon of the Permian Basin Landmen's Association at the Petroleum Club in Midland, Tex. Speaking before 150 members of the association, T. Boone Pickens, the West Texas oilman and financial speculator, predicted that oil prices would never fall below $30 again.
 ''I think you'll see $50 a barrel,'' Mr. Pickens said, ''before you see $30.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The control room for the Saudi Arabian national oil company, Saudi Aramco. Technicians say that in about two days, they can raise output 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day. (Photo by Hans-Jurgen Burkard/Bilderberg)Graph: ''The Saudi Factor''Saudi Arabia has stepped up oil production when supplies were tight in the past. It may not be able to do so this time.Graph tracks the average monthly oil production in Saudi Arabia since 1990.(Source by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FUTURES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); SAUDI ARAMCO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CHINA (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



351 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2191 words

HEADLINE: And What Did the Teacher Do During Vacation? 

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
TEACHERS have long been the envy of the working man, leaving work at about 3, summers off. But little is what it seems. Following, find 10 teachers and their summer adventures, from teaching on a trash heap and training all summer to teach in the fall, to avoiding bulls on Ireland's pathways and discovering the idiosyncrasies of endangered sea turtles.

Months as a Missionary
 In the early 1980's, Christina LaRosa was teaching Spanish at Middletown High School. One day she picked up a magazine. The page fell open to a Maryknoll Mission advertisement that read, ''What are you doing this summer? Do you have time to serve God?'' She sent away for a catalog of missionary opportunities throughout the world, interviewed with the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus in New York and was hired for a summer position in Mexico. 
 ''My first summer was an eye-opener,'' said Mrs. LaRosa, who was single at the time. ''My job was to teach the children who lived in the garbage dump. My first few days I cried a lot. I had a lot of trouble understanding why I was born in Middletown in a house with running water and lots of shoes, and these kids were living in cardboard shacks, picking the garbage to sell it and trying to find food and clothing in the trash to eat.'' 
 Her classroom was a blue tarp atop rotting garbage. The next summer, Maryknoll was able to buy land at the dump. In following summers, Mrs. LaRosa helped build a school, digging a latrine, hoisting 125-pound bags of cement and teaching students how to read and write in Spanish and converse in English. After 10 years, the local government recognized the garbage-dump community, providing financial support. Full-time teachers were assigned to the school, another building was built, a pre-kindergarten program was begun.
 Mrs. LaRosa continued to teach after her marriage seven years ago. ''I have to say 'thank you' for everything I have by giving time, and as a teacher, that time is the summertime,'' Mrs. LaRosa said. ''Those summers were my professional development. I just did mine in a garbage dump.''

In the Rainforest
 Heather Lloyd took an ecology course the summer before her senior year at the University of Connecticut that required her to hike the Amazon rainforest. The guide for her group, Judy Logback, talked about a craft cooperative, Kallari, a Kichua word meaning ancient, that she had founded to create international markets for hand-woven goods made by the indigenous peoples of the area. 
 Ms. Lloyd's interest was piqued. 
 ''The people were so generous with us, giving us their best food when they don't have that much to give, and it made me want to do something that could contribute,'' she said. Now a first-grade teacher at Hebron Avenue School in Glastonbury, Ms. Lloyd is an advocate for the crafts cooperative, selling the goods at Manhattan street fairs and at home shows that are much like Tupperware parties. She travels to Ecuador each summer and is now collecting information and materials to develop a unit for American students to learn about the forest cultures and the ways in which the rainforest affects climate. 
 ''I want children to understand how the rainforest is beneficial to the human race,'' she said. ''I initially went because I wanted to see monkeys in the forest and pretty mountains. And I came back and my life was changed.'' 

Hiking Ireland
 Myles Cohen, a guidance counselor at Flood Middle School in Stratford, has spent the last two summers hiking with his wife, Mary Cohen, in Ireland. They carried what they needed on their backs until nightfall, walking the lush, remote Beara Peninsula from one bed and breakfast to the next. 
 ''We wanted to go to a country that speaks English in case we got lost,'' he said. They relied on a compass and the weather for safe passage. ''You're talking Ireland, which has a huge amount of rainfall and a lot of the paths are not easily discernible and the fog rolls in and you can't see in front of your face,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''My wife fell in a bog. She looks wonderful in black.'' 
 The friendliness of the Irish people gave them their biggest thrill. 
 ''The farmers come out from their farmhouses carrying their address books, and say 'Look, we know someone in Connecticut,''' Mr. Cohen said. Bulls shared the narrow pathways of the peninsula with the slightly alarmed couple. ATM machines were hard to find. 
 This summer, they are off to Switzerland, to challenge the altitude, between the bed and breakfasts.

Vacancy at the Inn
 Bill Berghoff teaches physics and chemistry at Choate-Rosemary Hall in Wallingford during the school year and supervises a dormitory of 30 boys. His wife, Tina Berghoff, teaches hearing-impaired children in a birth-to-3 program in Wethersfield. They live with their three elementary-school-aged children in an apartment connected to the dorm. As if they didn't have enough to do keeping an eye on folks during the school year, the couple bought a bed and breakfast inn in Bridgton, Me., four years ago, a dream that originally had been reserved for retirement.
 ''We said, 'Why would we wait for 20 years to do what we thought we wanted to do, when here it was right here?' Everybody said, 'You guys are nuts, it's never going to work.' They were wrong. It is so good.''
 Each June they move to Maine, where Mrs. Berghoff tidies the rooms to her liking, and Mr. Berghoff chats with visitors in the living room. At the end of August they close up and return to Wallingford. 
 ''We don't have to make a living running a B&B,'' Mr. Berghoff said. ''If we're tired, we put the 'No vacancy' sign up and take a couple of days off.''
 International visitors often stop by, mesmerized by the deer feeding on vegetables in the front garden.
 ''We've had people come in every summer for the past three summers,'' Mr. Berghoff said. ''They're sort of part of our family. People will call and say, 'Hi, Tina! It's Gloria from New York City!''' 

Below Sea Level
 Standing in a classroom teaching teenagers about marine biology can make a teacher wonder: Just how slimy is a sea turtle? Do dolphins spit water straight up or on a curve?
 Melissa King, a biology and Advanced Placement environmental science teacher at the private Miss Porter's School for girls in Farmington, wasn't one to wonder. She signed on with the international research and conservation organization Earthwatch last summer as a volunteer in Mexico, researching endangered sea turtles in Baja.
 This summer she is heading to the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute in Massachusetts for a six-week marine research program that includes living on the water for 10 days. She has yet to stay in one place for long, teaching in Turkey immediately after college graduation, then in San Salvador, then outside London. She moved back to the United States to be near family and friends, but struck a bargain with herself to feed her wanderlust. 
 ''I have the best of both worlds,'' she said. ''I am at a wonderful school and close to my friends and family, and I can travel and experience things too.''

Invigorated by Students
 For the past 23 years at the end of June, Jeff Ostroff has shifted his attention from his post as principal of Lyme-Old Lyme Middle School to the summer campers at Y.P.I., the Young People's Institute. Held in one-week sessions at the private Westover School in Middlebury, the camp caters to about 150 budding writers, painters, songwriters, actors, computer graphics types, poets, sculptors and photographers from as far as Washington State and Michigan. The camp was created when Mr. Ostroff's soon-to-be and now ex-wife Karen List, a doctoral student at the University of Connecticut in 1981, wondered aloud why so many camps existed for sports enthusiasts and none for gifted writers. Her professors, including the noted UConn education professor Joseph Renzuli, helped her to figure out a fix. Y.P.I. was her answer. 
 Dr. List stopped working at the camp after she became a school principal, then an assistant superintendent in West Hartford. Mr. Ostroff kept on. 
 ''We wanted to create a community where everyone could come with ideas, share them without repercussions and still feel like they were getting good feedback,'' Mr. Ostroff said. ''People ask me why I do this, because I work with kids all year long. The energy is so intense at camp; I get rejuvenated by it.''

Travel and More Travel
 Joel Hinrichs, a history teacher at Branford High School, applied for a Fulbright scholarship in 2001 after the application landed on his desk. He traveled through China in July 2002 with a crop of Fulbright scholars from Connecticut, studying China's economic transition to a free-market society. The scholars met with business leaders, government officials and trade negotiators, and visited factories, universities and historic sites. 
 ''I think it's one of those things where once you start doing these types of activities, you keep doing them,'' Mr. Hinrichs said. 
 He is off to Germany for two weeks this summer, touring with the Goethe Institute, an organization that immerses American teachers in German language and culture.
 ''Right now it makes a lot of sense to be able to travel to places and bring things back to the classroom,'' Mr. Hinrichs said. He returned from China in April after setting up a sister school relationship between Branford High and Weifang, little known outside China as the kite capital of the world and the birthplace of the kite, traveling tidbits Mr. Hinrichs wouldn't have known otherwise.
 ''I develop personally and professionally with these trips,'' he said. ''I want to see as much of the world as I can possibly see.'' 

Teaching the Teachers
 Jane Niwa works all summer, learning how to be a teacher to the teachers she coaches at the International School at Dundee in Greenwich. She is the school's international baccalaureate coordinator, training teachers in best educational practices.
 ''The philosophical side of this kind of teaching is that children learn to be lifelong learners,'' she said. ''They gain an understanding of humanity, a knowledge of other people and other perspectives.'' 
 That means traveling with other teachers each summer to far-flung spots such Martigny, Switzerland and Frankfurt, Germany and closer in, Washington and this year, Philadelphia. 
 ''We get the cheap fares, and we share rooms to save money,'' she said. ''Without our P.T.A. we couldn't afford it. But the workshops in Europe are fabulous. You're sitting next to somebody from Syria, another from Japan, another from Mauritius. The people are different, but the goals and the framework are the same. That is such an exciting thing.'' 
 Before lighting in Greenwich, Mrs. Niwa traveled the world for 15 years, moving with her husband and four children for Mr. Niwa's job with the United Nations to Guyana, Yemen, Nepal and Thailand. In each new hometown, Mrs. Niwa taught. 
 ''I think teachers who stop learning stop being good teachers,'' Mrs. Niwa said. ''Because that's what it's all about.''

Always an Artist
 Artists, unless they are suffering a Van Gogh moment and fall into despair, are constantly working. During the year, E. Ann Baldwin teaches printmaking at the Greater Hartford Academy of the Arts. This summer, she is cramming in as many pursuits as possible, teaching a nine-week clay course at Wesleyan Potters, a nonprofit pottery cooperative art guild in Middletown, preparing for a one-woman exhibit of monotypes using chlorine bleach and its arch rival, the bath and body lotion Calgon, and presenting an award to Coretta Scott King, widow of the Rev. Martin Luther King, at Antioch College in Ohio, which both women attended. 
 For several summers she has exhibited her art at the University of Connecticut at Avery Point, including a show devoted in part to Katharine Hepburn before her death.
 ''She has been one of my idols all my life,'' Ms. Baldwin said. ''All of those pieces dedicated to her are either the street addresses of her family residences in Hartford or in Fenwick. We exchanged letters and phone calls over the exhibit before she died.'' 

Sharing Songs and Silliness
 After listening for more than a decade to students saying the oddest things in music class at Kathleen E. Goodwin Elementary School in Old Saybrook, Lois Geer finally had enough anecdotes to plan a summer creating a manuscript. 
 ''I jot things down whenever anybody says anything that cracks me up, which happens everyday,'' she said. Fellow teachers have joined the fray, sharing silly stories. One was teaching a Native American song to the schoolchildren recently when a student remarked, ''That's a cool Indian song.'' Striving to be politically correct, the teacher asked the students, ''Does anyone know what else you can call Indians?'' A little girl raised her hand and answered, ''Naked Americans?'' 
 Mrs. Geer has kept up with her music each summer for many years, patching together weeklong workshops at the Hartt School of Music at the University of Hartford and at Central Connecticut State University for summer months of world music, Native American music and musical technology. 
 ''Ever since I was a little girl I've loved music,'' she said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Myles Cohen, bottom, and above with his wife, Mary Cohen, on a hiking trip in Ireland. Mr. Cohen is a guidance counselor. (pg. 12)
Joel Hinrichs, a history teacher at Branford High School, traveled to China in 2002 with a group of Fulbright scholars. This summer he will be off to Germany for two weeks.
 Heather Lloyd, center, a first-grade teacher at Hebron Avenue School in Glastonbury, travels to Ecuador each summer. (pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); CHILDREN (79%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); HIKING (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (71%); RAIN FORESTS (60%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (50%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); GERMANY (59%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



352 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: Hardest Part of the Job? Finding It

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: MAMARONECK 

 BODY:
THIS year, David Dvorkin, 18, tried a new approach to finding a summer job. Armed with 200 copies of his resume and wearing a collared shirt and tie, he spent several hours during the evening rush at the Chappaqua train station handing out his credentials to any commuter who would take them. A cover letter told potential employers that Mr. Dvorkin was seeking a job or an internship in the business world. 
 He tried this novel method in March, when he was home for spring break from his freshman year at Emory University. So far, he has gotten one response, from an entrepreneur in the technology field who said he admired Mr. Dvorkin's enterprising approach to his job search. Mr. Dvorkin, whose parents have already told him he will be responsible for paying for his own gas, cellphone bill and other incidentals this summer, is still hopeful that the call might lead to a summer position. 
 He is one of thousands of Westchester teenagers still looking for summer work. Matt Abarca, 17, of Mamaroneck, has found some odd jobs this spring -- cleaning up yards, mowing lawns, collecting tickets at a festival -- but nothing permanent for the summer. 
 ''It's a problem for a lot of kids,'' he said. ''It's harder for us to be hired and considered mature adults when it comes to jobs.''
 Elizabeth Brackbill, 17, is also still looking. Elizabeth said she has inquired about jobs at dozens of stores in Larchmont and Mamaroneck, and has visited the jobs office at her local high school, but so far has found nothing.
 ''When I go in to a store and ask, 'are you hiring?' a lot of times they'll say, 'Oh, we'll take down your name and number and get back to you,''' said Elizabeth, who will be a freshman at New York University next fall. ''But nobody has ever called me back. It's really frustrating, because I've tried so hard. And I need to pay for college.''
 Summer jobs have long been a rite of passage for teenagers, providing them with experience, self-confidence and of course money. The job market prognosis for Westchester teenagers seems mixed this summer. Economists say the local economy is strong, but those working with teenagers to find jobs say the market for young people has not rebounded as it appears to have for many older workers.
 Liz Oliver, the executive director of Mamaroneck Youth Employment Services, which serves students in the Mamaroneck and Rye Neck school districts, said that the number of job postings was down 30 percent from those in 2000, and that the decline has been steady, with a loss of about 50 jobs each year. 
 ''It's a tough market out there,'' Ms. Oliver said. ''I hear that it's turning around, but I don't think its reached down to the businesses that we're dealing with.''
 Westchester County has continued to show job growth, said Sean MacDonald, associate economist for the Hudson Valley Region of the state Department of Labor. The county had added 3,300 new nonfarm jobs between March 2003 and March 2004, with the largest gains in trade, transportation and utilities. The total labor force in Westchester is 466,000, Ms. MacDonald said, citing figures from the State Department of Labor. Ms. MacDonald said that seasonal jobs like camp counselors and lifeguards would be available for teenagers, and that the leisure and hospitality sectors of the job market, including hotels and restaurants, as well as the retail sector, also tended to hire temporary staff over the summer. 
 But Andrew Sum, the director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, predicts that this summer's youth labor market will be as bad as last year's, when fewer teenagers worked during the summer than in any other summer since 1948. In July 2003, only 36.1 percent of the country's 16- to 19-year-olds were employed. 
 ''The overall job market has picked up, but it hasn't shown any improved rates for teenagers this far,'' he said. ''How well kids will do in the summer can be projected pretty well. The rates have fallen tremendously ever since we left 2000. Even if jobs continue to grow nationally, it takes a long time to turn the teen labor market around.''
 Mr. Sum said teenagers are usually the last in the queue to be hired. Young people face increased competition for jobs from immigrants as well as from unemployed older people. He said that fast-food establishments, landscapers and restaurants prefer and can get more mature employees who are available year round. He also noted that recent college graduates are taking jobs that once were filled by younger teenagers.
 ''We find an increase of college kids who are working outside the normal college market, as sales clerks, in construction labor, department stores, landscaping,'' he said. ''So the next group that gets bumped out is high school.''
 Enormous gaps for those who will find work still exist across income and race groups, Mr. Sum said. African-Americans with the lowest family incomes were the least likely to have summer jobs last year. Of African-American teenagers 16 to 19 years old with family incomes of $20,000 or lower, only one in five found work. When family income was $65,00 to $75,000, 38 out of every 100 African-American teenagers were employed for the summer; while in the same income bracket, 58 out of 100 white teenagers secured jobs, he said.
 Ms. Oliver, of the youth employment office in Mamaroneck, said she saw racism playing a part in some job selections. ''We haven't come very far, even in baby-sitting,'' she said. ''The kids who need things the most are the kids who have the least chance of getting it, and it all just sort of stacks up.''
 Don Cirulli, who works with many Latino families in job development at Student and Family Support at Port Chester High School, said he has adults coming in asking for jobs, and willing to take positions paying $10 or $12 per hour. He has found some positions for high school students this summer, including caddying, landscaping and cashiering at supermarkets. He has also placed students in office administrative jobs. 
 The competition is even tight for jobs like summer camp counselors. Allison Eckhart, recreation supervisor for the Town of Mount Kisco, said she began accepting applications for the town camp staff in January.
 ''I definitely have a lot more applicants,'' she said. ''It's afforded me the luxury of being able to be a lot more choosy in terms of who I'm hiring, instead of it being the last day before camp opening and I'm scrambling.'' 
 Christina Pizzimenti, 16, of Larchmont, considers herself fortunate to have lined up a position as a camp counselor at a private beach club in Mamaroneck, where she worked last season, after a friend's father who works as a chef at the club arranged for her to have an interview. 
 ''I do feel lucky,'' Christina said. ''The pay rate goes up every year and we get good tips at the end. Plus it's a long camp, eight weeks.'' 
 To be sure, there are still summer jobs available for teenagers in the county. One of the biggest employers is Westchester County itself. Peter Tartaglia, the director of marketing for Playland, said the amusement park has 900 seasonal jobs, including openings for ride operators, ticket takers, maintenance workers and beach and pool employees. Playland also has administrative positions. (Playland has a job fair scheduled on June 12 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Westchester County Center; more information is also available at www.westchestergov.com.) In addition, there are roughly 400 seasonal jobs at the county's various pools, beaches, golf courses and parks. 
 Local teenagers can also search for jobs at AmericanJobCentral.com. Begun in 2003 and originally called Westchesterjobcentral.com, the Web site was designed by Bill Christian and Steve Sribnik, who were frustrated with their own college-age children's summer job search. 
 ''They were getting confused by some of the big job Web sites,'' Mr. Christian said. ''The trouble with the summer job market is that some kids don't want to relocate and they don't want to work 50 miles away. They don't have cars, and they need to be local.''
 The site allows job seekers to search for local openings by ZIP code. Employers post jobs for a monthly fee. Recently, the site featured employers like Applebee's, Breezemont Day Camp and UPS. It is geared for the 16- to 29-year-old age group, and focuses on temporary, seasonal and first jobs. Mr. Christian also said the economy was tough for teenagers this year.
 ''The job market is particularly bad for young people,'' Mr. Christian said. ''You'd think it would be the other way around, because employers would be looking for cheap labor, but unfortunately everyone is cutting back, doing the things they can do with existing staff.'' 
 Those who work with teenagers seeking employment also give them guidance on how to approach potential employers. Mr. Cirulli, at Port Chester High School, reminds students to dress conservatively and to go into interviews with a positive attitude. Deborah Skates, the marketing director for The Westchester mall in White Plains, said that the earlier a job seeker got in a resume or an application, the better.
 Even those who paint a bleak picture of the summer job market urge teenagers not to give up hope.
 ''I always tell kids that just because it's going to be weak doesn't mean you give up,'' Mr. Sum said. ''The story still is that the more effort you make, the greater the likelihood that you are going to find something. A lot of times it takes 20 interviews to get a job, but persistence still pays.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Brackbill, above right, checks the paper for jobs, with Meghan Lynch. Elizabeth searching, from a hammock. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) Labor; Children and Youth; Temporary Employment

PERSON: Kate Stone Lombardi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



353 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Wishing Playland Could Run on Play Money

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: RYE 

 BODY:
AS cotton-candy season arrived for the 76th time here at Playland amusement park, this refuge for smiling children and nostalgic parents could hardly have seemed less controversial.
 After all, what's not to like about Playland?
 Admission is free (although you do pay for rides and treats once you get in). The attractions are classics. The park is highly scenic and well maintained, plagued neither by the sprawl that typifies newer parks nor by the slow decay that has afflicted older ones. 
 And with the 1,000 employees finding work in and around the park every summer, Playland is a boon for local job seekers as well.
 ''It's pretty important,'' said Anthony Dixon, an 18-year-old carousel operator and Mount Vernon resident, as eager-looking parents and children lined up by his booth on a recent Sunday. ''I'd say every other kid in Mount Vernon works here.''
 But there is a wrinkle in this postcard-perfect picture: Playland, which has been operating since 1928, is able to dwell in its Neverland thanks to its unique status as the country's only municipally owned and operated amusement park. While this has allowed it to avoid the compromises forced upon commercial entities -- high prices, sprawl, impersonal atmosphere -- the park is run at a net loss each year. This season alone, it is expected to cost $14 million while taking in a little more than $12 million. 
 With Westchester residents already forced to bear sizable property tax increases, the county money allocated to an amusement park, skating rink and miniature golf course is bound to come under close scrutiny. 
 Yet getting out of the fun-park business is not necessarily the right answer for the county either. As leaders can attest, many of the same Westchester residents unhappy with their taxes get even more dyspeptic at the thought of anything happening to Playland.
 For example, Playland's biggest money loser is the ice rink, but when County Executive Andrew J. Spano threatened to close it in 2002, ''people were up in arms.''
 To the public, Mr. Spano concluded, ''it's not about the money.''
 To county leaders, on the other hand, the money is an important factor. Defenders of the county's role in running Playland point out that the amusement park is only a part of a larger, more traditional public amenity that includes the beach, a boardwalk and open grassy areas in Rye. In effect, the site is just as much public park as amusement park. If Playland were sold, the county would still have a public park to pay for, but without the offsetting revenue. 
 ''There's clearly a segment of the population that looks to Playland almost as the poster child for profligate county spending with a simple panacea: sell it and everything will be fine,'' said Michael B. Kaplowitz, the Democrat who is chairman of the County Board of Legislators' Budget and Appropriations Committee. ''It's a myth.''
 Major changes to the county's unusual relationship with Playland do not, therefore, seem imminent. Mr. Spano says his current course is to make improvements in marketing and attractions while inching toward economic efficiency. 
 ''If the weather holds,'' he said, ''I think this will be the biggest year ever.'' 
 That is a big ''if.'' The rain last summer drove attendance figures down to 830,000, 11 percent below the 932,000 who attended in 2002. And the weather isn't the only unpredictable factor. Take, for example, the federal court ruling last August ordering the county to pay $2,500 to a convicted pedophile for barring him from performing as a clown at Playland.
 There has also been the roller-coaster of executive decisions made, rejected or fought over -- decisions that would not have been aired in quite the same way if Playland were privately run. In 2003, Mr. Spano proposed, then withdrew, a plan to replace its old ticket booths with a system of swipe cards. And last year, legislators hotly debated how many millions of dollars to spend renovating the decorative colonnades outside the park gates.
 Mr. Spano is not the first county executive to struggle with a place that is both cultural treasure and budgetary nightmare. During the Reagan administration in the early 1980's, under Alfred B. DelBello, the county handed over operations to a private contractor. The company, Marriott Corporation, determined that it could make a profit by putting a fence around the park and charging admission. Attendance plummeted. The public was outraged.
 ''It was a disaster,'' Mr. Spano said.
 Just last year he rejected a consulting firm's advice to privatize parts of Playland. 
 Yet some county officials remain doubters, calling the tax burden represented by Playland unacceptable and asking whether the county should be in the amusement park business at all. ''At a time when you're socking taxpayers with tax hikes, the prudent thing to do is to put all of your services and programs under scrutiny and focus on your core functions, and I'm not convinced that running an amusement park is a core function,'' said George Oros, the Republican minority leader on the County Board of Legislators. ''Why are we the only county running an amusement park? It's not a badge of honor, but a vestige of something in the past.''
 BUT while asserting that ''everything should be on the table,'' he acknowledged the lack of a real solution to the Playland issue. 
 The reason leads back to Westchester residents, and their resistance to changing a county treasure. James Futrell, an author of several books on amusement parks and director of the National Amusement Park Historical Association, seemed to acknowledge this when he cautioned against making short-term economic decisions at the expense of Playland's character. 
 ''It's a national historic landmark,'' he said, ''and one from my perspective as a historian where you'd really want to see those features that make Playland special preserved and built upon. If they start getting away from that, there's a risk of it becoming just another amusement park.''
 That prospect, for some local residents, would be unthinkable. 
 Mr. Dixon, who is beginning his fourth season of work at Playland, said: ''I'd never work at a Six Flags or anyplace like that. But this place is different. I was out in California a while ago and people there heard of it -- it's famous. That's why I like it.''
 Mr. Dixon is about to finish high school and is shipping off at the end of the summer for Navy boot camp in Illinois, meaning that this season at Playland will be his last. 
 At least, for the foreseeable future. 
 ''It's not like I could see myself working at an amusement park for the rest of my life,'' he said. ''But maybe if I retired I might come back here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Latoya Murphy, above, runs the motorcycle derby ride in the Kiddyland section of Playland. Children take their places in the car ride at Playland. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); COUNTIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); FAMILY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); TAX LAW (64%); GOLF (63%) Amusement and Theme Parks

ORGANIZATION: Playland (Rye, NY)

PERSON: Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY); Rye (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



354 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; OLYMPICS

LENGTH: 1846 words

HEADLINE: A Tiny Female Pioneer For Olympic Wrestling

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS 

 BODY:
She stood in a bathroom stall weeping. Patricia Miranda had ignored the sexual innuendo from the boys she wrestled against, withstood her father's relentless attempts to thwart her interest in the sport, absorbed the cheap shots from opponents, the rolled eyes of opposing coaches, and even a scolding from one opponent's mother, who complained that her son was in a no-win situation wrestling against a girl.
 But after a particularly bad beating in a high school tournament, three dismissive words staggered Miranda. The determination that the darts would only strengthen her commitment slipped away and she was just another teenage girl racked by self-doubt.
 ''You're a joke.'' 
 Suppose this pursuit of a brutish man's sport by a diminutive girl was just folly. Miranda was no natural athlete, no fitness nut. She used to con her family into giving her extra French fries at McDonald's. But when someone walked into her eighth-grade weight-lifting class and announced that wrestling tryouts were that day, she followed the boys and never left. She negotiated a pact with her father that if she got straight A's in high school she could wrestle, subverting his threat to sue her school if it let her participate. 
 This was long before 2002, when women's wrestling became the only new sport at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Until then, the only reason to continue what seemed a fruitless quest was a chubby kid's attraction to something she was especially bad at, and to seek the uncomfortable in a comfortable life. But Miranda had made it to her junior year of high school before she cried that first time over wrestling.
 ''That really set my resolve to try to answer that question -- maybe I am a joke,'' Miranda said. ''But I'm at least going to find out. Even if I've been delusional for six years, I'm not going to walk away not knowing that this whole thing was a joke. I had to keep going and had to know if effort and focus and belief and training could somehow legitimize me as a wrestler.''
 It has. Miranda -- still small at 5 feet but now a 24-year-old with the broad shoulders and muscular legs that mark most wrestlers -- will be the overwhelming favorite to win the spot for 105.5-pound women on the United States Olympic team at the trials in Indianapolis on May 21-23. She is the top-ranked American woman in her weight class and she won the silver medal at the 2003 world championships. The main competition in the Olympics will most likely come from Japan, Ukraine and Canada, where women's wrestling has a longer history. 

Success for Growth
 For Miranda, her rise to the top of her sport is something like Cinderella in a singlet, but there is much more riding on the success of Miranda and the other American women who will go to Athens.
 Supporters of women's wrestling hope this is a chance for the smallest of niche sports to gain a toehold in the American consciousness, to dispel the ick factor that seems to dog it, in much the same way women's soccer and hockey used Olympic success to generate grassroots interest. 
 The National Federation of State High School Associations said that 3,769 girls competed in high school wrestling in 2003, a blip on the sports radar. Only two states -- Texas and Hawaii -- hold separate girls wrestling state tournaments. In 47 other states, girls wrestle against boys.
 Just six colleges have varsity women's wrestling teams -- Stanford, where Miranda started in her senior year, is not one of them -- but the N.C.A.A. does not yet recognize it as a sport. 
 Terry Steiner, the national women's coach, believes acceptance of women's wrestling by coaches remains less than 50 percent. ''I think they're starting to understand they can't keep shoving it under the rug,'' Steiner said.
 Mike Moyer, the executive director of the National Wrestling Coaches Association, added: ''It's going to require some flexibility on behalf of coaches. Where it is an issue is when boys are wrestling girls.''
 When Miranda, who wrestled at 125 pounds at Stanford, finally beat a man -- during a college tournament in Reno, Nev., she held on to win while shaking from exhaustion -- it was such a signal moment that people asked for her autograph. 
 ''It was punctuated well by the fact that there were a couple of people who were like, 'Geez, that girl just beat a guy,' '' said Levi Weikel-Magden, Miranda's boyfriend and a former Stanford wrestler. 
 One of Steiner's goals for Athens is to uncover heroes who can catapult their sport forward, the way Mia Hamm did for soccer.
In Miranda he has an articulate advocate.

Memory of a Young Mother
 As the daughter of a Brazilian father, who was a doctor, and a Japanese mother who emigrated to California from Brazil, Miranda lived in a home with an emphasis on academics, to the exclusion of athletics. The only responsibility the four children had was their homework. They did not even have to make their beds. It was a smooth, easy life.
 But when Miranda's mother, Lia, died of an aneurysm at 40, her 10-year-old daughter, unusually mature and driven even then, forged a philosophy that would shape her life. 
 ''The way I was raised was devoid of challenge,'' Miranda said. ''Then we're hit by a parent death. She died at 40 and I'm thinking, 'I'm a fourth of the way done with my life if I go when she went.' I came up with a principle: when you're lying on your deathbed, one of the cool things to say is, 'I really explored myself.' This sense of urgency was instilled when my mom died. If you only go through life doing stuff that's easy, shame on you. 
 ''When wrestling presented such a challenge, I was primed to accept it.''
 Her father was not. Jose Miranda is an amiable man, but when his daughter told him she was studying wrestling, his reaction was swift. It would interfere with schoolwork. She would get hurt. He didn't want her wrestling with boys, anyway. Patricia held up her end of the pact to get straight A's, but her father remained ambivalent, sometimes reading during her matches. 
 ''Patricia did everything herself,'' Jose Miranda said. ''I may be important as a Freudian figure, maybe it was: 'I'm going to beat my father on that.' In reality, I feel ashamed that I see parents do much more for their kids in terms of practice. I never did anything.''
 In high school, the older boys on the team taunted her, the normal insecurities between the sexes during adolescence writ large. The coach, Lloyd Asato, allowed Miranda on the team but did not shield her. ''It was rough for her,'' Asato said. ''I wasn't softening the blow a lot of times. But she's the kind of person if you say no, she says yes and she's going to make it yes.''
 Miranda would regularly go home with a black eye or bruises on her arms and legs after a rough match or practice. ''That's the worst thing they could have done, given my personality,'' Miranda said.
 After practice every day, Miranda sat at her family's table studying until 1 a.m. It was, she says ruefully, the start of her nonsocial life. But her pursuit of wrestling followed a familiar pattern: when she decided to tackle something, she overwhelmed it with a determination that left resistance in tatters. In the classroom, she was the student who sat in the front of the class and asked a lot of questions. She started a conflict-management team at school that was given authority over on-campus incidents. She was a member of the student government. She became the wrestling team captain as a senior.
 In high school, before boys are completely grown, Miranda was able to occasionally defeat them in matches. Not in college. She would spend more time lifting weights and running stairs and extra time practicing on the mat, but she could not overcome the greater strength and quickness of young men. She would sometimes go three or four days in a row at Stanford's three-hour practices without scoring a point. 
 ''It was heartbreaking,'' Miranda said. ''That killed me.''
 One Stanford coach, Chris Horpel, allowed her to join the team as a freshman, but she never got into a match until midseason of her senior year. After one member of the team got hurt and another quit, Miranda became a starter, provoking more consternation from opposing coaches. Although she beat a man just once in competition, in that Reno tournament, it was enough to validate what she had gone through. 
 ''She led by example,'' said Steve Buddie, another Stanford coach. ''What kind of excuse can you come up with if you're a having a bad day or starting to feel lazy to see this woman, and you feel like you've done enough push-ups for the day and she's still doing them? You had a bad day? And you look over and she's getting the crap kicked out of her and she gets up again and grabs another partner and says, 'Let's go again.' ''
 Miranda thrived on the interplay of academics and athletics at Stanford, graduating with honors in five years with a bachelor's degree in economics and a master's in international policy. Her thesis was on the economic causes behind the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. She has deferred an acceptance to Yale Law School until after the Olympics.

Tiring Days and Challenges
 Since graduating, Miranda has lived in a spartan dorm room at the Olympic Training Center, and her detailed notes are devoted to her training and her food consumption (2,500 calories a day).
 During one grueling practice, she wrestled with the team for 90 minutes, working against a bigger woman who dominated her physically. By the time the session was over, Miranda's hair was dripping with sweat.
 Later that day, she jumped rope in sweats before joining the other women for an exhausting session of circuit training in the gym. On some days, she does a light workout in a sauna, to train her body how to sweat profusely when she must drop water weight before a weigh-in (Miranda weighs about 115 pounds, so she must lose 10 pounds before a meet).
 She will occasionally train with high school boys, to get used to wrestling someone her own size. 
 ''She wants to fall into bed every night,'' Steiner said. ''Otherwise, she feels like she's wasted time.''
 Miranda is aware of the role she could play in her sport if she wins -- and she figures she will know whether she will retire when she steps off the mat in Athens. Her father admits he does not believe her story himself. ''I hope it's not like Orson Welles with 'Citizen Kane,' '' he said of the director who may have made his greatest film as a young man. 
 That seems unlikely. Even as she curled in a chair after dinner with some teammates at Steiner's home, still three months removed from the Olympics, she is already pondering the next challenge. On the cusp of achieving one goal, the sense of urgency drives her forward again -- this time toward law school. 
 ''I'm excited to start at the bottom somewhere, excited to see if I can graduate at the top of my class,'' Miranda said. ''People say, 'Why not stay and enjoy the view and stay on top?' Of the limited time I have here, it's less worthy than going somewhere else and starting at the bottom and seeing if I can get to the top again.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patricia Miranda, relaxing at the Olympic Training Center, is the favorite to win the 105.5-pound spot on the United States team. (Photo by Tom Kimmell for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Miranda doing pull-ups during her weight-training routine last week at the United States Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs.
 Patricia Miranda, left, wrestling with Marcie Van Dusen during an Olympic training session last Thursday. (Photographs by Tom Kimmell for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRESTLING (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); WEIGHTLIFTING (70%); RANKINGS (60%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Wrestling

PERSON: Judy Battista; Patricia Miranda

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (75%) INDIANA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (75%); GREECE (54%); JAPAN (50%); UKRAINE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



355 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Courting Gay Travelers

BYLINE: By TERRY TRUCCO. 
TERRY TRUCCO writes frequently for the Travel section.

 BODY:
LAST November, Philadelphia unveiled a three-year $900,000 campaign designed to attract gay and lesbian travelers. With a catchy slogan -- ''Get your history straight and your night life gay'' -- and witty ads depicting Ben Franklin and Betsy Ross holding rainbow props, the city deftly played up its gay-friendly attractions and positioned itself as a culture-rich alternative to the cruises and resorts that have long catered to gay audiences. 
 Months in the making, the campaign included a retooled Web site (found at www.gophila.com/gay), ''Philadelphia Freedom'' hotel packages (rooms and breakfast from $99 a night) and a 30-page guide aimed squarely at its audience (gay-owned hotels get an asterisk).
 Given Philadelphia's history of diversity and its thriving gay community, marketing to gay and lesbian travelers was good common sense -- and good business sense, says Jeff Guaracino, a spokesman for the Greater Philadelphia Tourism Marketing Corporation, who helped devise the campaign.
 Indeed, gay visitors to Philadelphia spend an average of $179 a day, almost twice as much as the city's general tourist population, and prefer to visit on weekends, according to a survey by Community Marketing, a San Francisco-based research organization specializing in gay travel. 
 Philadelphia won't know the impact of its campaign until a follow-up survey is conducted later this year, but monthly visits to the city's gay travel Web site have jumped from 400 to more than 8,000 since the campaign began. ''I think we're going to see a lot more destinations inviting gay and lesbian travelers,'' Mr. Guaracino said.
 Though gay and lesbian travelers have been courted for years by travel services dealing exclusively with the gay community, the sector was all but ignored by mainstream marketers as recently as a decade ago. But travel marketing has undergone marked changes. In the last three years it became clear that gays and lesbians were one of the few groups that traveled undaunted following calamities, like the Sept. 11 attacks and last year's SARS scare.
 ''During the Iraq war, we found that the percentage of gay and lesbian travelers who booked trips, particularly to international destinations, was significantly higher than among the general population,'' said Jeff Marsh, director of advertising for Orbitz, an online travel service that operates a gay microsite. The sector's appealing demographics have also attracted attention. Gay and lesbian travelers represent a $54.1 billion market, about 10 percent of the United States travel industry, according to Community Marketing. In an online survey of self-identified gay and lesbian consumers last year by Community Marketing, 97 percent had taken vacations in the preceding 12 months, 82 percent spent more than five nights at a hotel, 76 percent had household incomes above the national average of $40,000, and 84 percent held a valid passport (the national average is 29 percent). 
 Changing social perspectives have also affected the travel industry, observers say. ''TV shows like 'Will and Grace' and 'Queer Eye' have sensitized the mainstream community, making it all right to talk about the gay community and O.K. to have gay friends,'' said Tom Roth, president of Community Marketing. 
 Taking a cue from trailblazing cities like Montreal and Fort Lauderdale, a small but growing number of North American destinations, like Minneapolis, San Diego, Milwaukee, Las Vegas, New Haven and Bloomington, Ind., have concentrated on this audience, working to attract gay and lesbian conventions, events and leisure travelers. International tourist offices have also rolled out the welcome mat. France, Britain, Germany, Finland, Spain, Australia, Tahiti and Austria are a few of the 50 to 60 destinations worldwide with coordinated campaigns that can include brochures of gay events, activities, points of interest, sightseeing and vetted listings of gay-friendly hotels. 
 At the same time, a growing number of mainstream hotel chains, airlines, car rental companies and online travel services are reaching out, sponsoring gay and lesbian events and causes and placing ads in gay and lesbian publications and Internet sites. Internet marketing is particularly effective. Gays and lesbians spent 70 percent of their travel dollars online, compared with 59 percent from other travelers, according to figures from Forrester Research. 
 Successful companies and destinations make a point of tailoring their products to this audience. Ten years ago, Avis became the first car rental agency to include domestic partners as additional drivers free of charge. Hertz and Thrifty followed. ''Increasingly, we're seeing competing brands getting on board,'' Mr. Roth said. 
 Intense customer loyalty is often the reward for companies that make a serious effort to reach the gay and lesbian audience. American Airlines is a frequently cited example. In 1993, American became the first carrier to reach out to the sector, and it is still the preferred airline among gay and lesbian travelers, Mr. Roth said.
 Despite that, fewer than 10 percent of the mainstream travel industry currently markets to gays and lesbians. ''There are still a lot of hurdles to overcome within organizations and corporations,'' Mr. Roth said. ''Often it boils down to personal feelings.''
 Most industry observers agree that travel for gays and lesbians today is simpler and more enjoyable than just a decade ago. ''We are completely mainstream as gay and lesbian travelers,'' said Richard Gray, proprietor of the Royal Palms, an upscale guest house in Fort Lauderdale. ''It is much easier for us to go to a W, a Hyatt or a Sheraton and be completely comfortable.'' 
 That comfort has come about in part because community members, notably gays and lesbians employed in the travel industry, have made their specialized needs known. Chief among these is a guarantee of welcome, whether at a hotel, a resort, a cruise ship or on a plane. ''There are enough tensions built into travel these days without having to worry whether you'll be harassed,'' said Ed Salvato, editor of Out & About, a leading newsletter that covers gay and lesbian travel. 
 Travelers seek out hotels that make it their policy to be gay friendly. That means no one bats an eye when two men or two women request one king-size bed. The concierge should be knowledgeable about gay activities, events, neighborhoods and night life. And guests should be able to request a gay guide. ''Ten years ago, when we'd survey hotels to see if they were gay friendly, they'd say, 'We're friendly to everyone,''' Mr. Salvato recalled. ''Now they know what gay friendly means, and many ask to be included in our survey.''
 Not all hotels are on board, however, which is one reason well-vetted hotel listings still matter. ''When we developed our gay microsite, we ran across properties that did not want to be listed as gay friendly,'' Mr. Marsh of Orbitz said. 
 Like hotels, destinations that click with gay and lesbian travelers also meet special criteria. While most want to indulge in the same museums, sporting events, beaches and cultural activities as straight visitors, they also want places buttressed with a vibrant gay community and a retinue of gay restaurants, coffeehouses, bookstores, shops and nightclubs. ''You've got to have that strong gay infrastructure,'' Mr. Gray said. ''That's why Fort Lauderdale succeeds as a destination but Orlando wouldn't.''
 While New York, New Orleans and San Francisco remain popular -- along with established resorts like Provincetown, Palm Springs and Key West -- plenty of new cities meet the criteria. Included in Out & About's recent list of up-and-coming gay destinations are Buenos Aires, Melbourne, Vancouver, Hong Kong, Cape Town, Berlin, Toronto, Rio de Janeiro, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Lisbon and, in the United States, San Diego and Philadelphia. 
 Market observers also predict an economic windfall for the first American city that legalizes gay marriage. ''Marriage was legal in San Francisco too short a time to have an effect,'' Mr. Roth of Community Marketing said. ''But our estimate, when you count the honeymoons, cakes, clothes, rings and other purchases, is $1 billion over three years.''
 Despite new competition from mainstream marketers, the outlook for gay and lesbian travel services remains strong, industry watchers say. ''It's the birds-of-a-feather thing,'' said Mr. Salvato. ''There's nothing like the sense of empowerment and camaraderie you get when you're surrounded by gay people, whether on a cruise or walking down the street in P-town, and you realize you're in the majority.''
 Being gay ''is a culture,'' said Gregg Kaminsky, a co-founder with Rosie and Kelli O'Donnell of R Family Vacations, a new gay and lesbian family-friendly travel service. ''There are things about our culture that do not appeal to straight culture. Gay vacations give us a place where we can be totally relaxed and comfortable.'' 
 Most prominent gay travel services, like Atlantis and RSVP cruises for men and Olivia travel for women, usually charter an entire ship or resort for a trip. ''People don't want to worry that they don't fit in someone else's picture,'' said Amy Errett, chief executive of Olivia. 
 But such trips are typically single sex, as gay men and lesbian women have distinctly different preferences in experiences, settings, entertainment, even lounge acts. (Chaka Kahn and Patti LuPone have performed aboard Atlantis ships, while K.D. Lang is scheduled for a coming Olivia cruise from Boston to Montreal.) 
 ''For men, a trip is usually a party thing with more of a singles scene associated with it,'' Ms. Errett said. ''Women are more interested in a holistic experience that focuses on the destination and excursions, like going whale watching or swimming with dolphins.'' About 50 to 80 percent of Olivia customers are couples, she added. 
 But as lifestyles evolve, so does the travel industry. R Family Vacations has begun to fill a new niche, namely gays and lesbians with partners and children. ''Our community has grown up,'' Mr. Kaminsky said. ''Many of us have been out for a while, have calmed down and want a more relaxed environment.'' Gay-friendly straight people, like parents and friends, are also welcome on the company's inaugural trip, a Caribbean cruise aboard the Norwegian Dawn in July.
 While vacations at single-sex guest houses in resorts like Provincetown and Palm Springs are still popular, as are chartered group visits to the Great Barrier Reef or African safaris, cruises remain a staple of gay and lesbian travel. In the 2003 Community Marketing survey of gay and lesbian travelers, 20 percent had taken a cruise in the previous year, versus a 2 percent national average. 
 ''Cruises provide a way for people at different income levels to enjoy the same vacation,'' said Mr. Kaminsky. And that also fills a niche.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A gay tango club in Buenos Aires. The Christopher Street Day parade in Berlin. At an Equality Forum street festival in Philadelphia, part of a spring celebration of the gay community. (Photographs by the Associated Press [parade and club], J. McWilliams for Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau [street fair])
 Ad in the ''Gay & Lesbian Canada Vacation Planner 2003'' brochure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CRUISES (78%); HISTORY (77%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); TOURISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%) Travel and Vacations; Homosexuality; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Community Marketing (Co)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: Terry Trucco

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (77%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%) Fort Lauderdale (Fla); Montreal (Quebec)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



356 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: Rainbow Beach Towels On Mexican Sand

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY. 
DAVID KIRBY writes frequently about travel.

 BODY:
A WARM twilight settles over the Mexican resort of Puerto Vallarta as the sun slips behind the pink clouds of the Bahia de Banderas. Tourists at a rooftop bar burst into applause and raise their cocktails to the fiery spectacle, before settling in for the evening's entertainment. But this will be no night of Mariachi music.
 ''B-Seven!'' coos a drag queen named Ida Slapter. ''B-Siete! Any lucky winners?'' 
 If it's Tuesday, this must be Gay Bingo at the Blue Chairs Beach Resort, perhaps the gayest event in the gayest neighborhood of what may be Mexico's most gay-friendly town. In recent years, this Pacific coast resort about 130 miles west of Guadalajara, has emerged as a premier destination on the gay travel map, joining a growing roster of places that are drawing gay and lesbian travelers. 
 So how does a place become a gay destination? For years, friends had told me that ''PV'' was becoming a new gay mecca, but I was skeptical. I had been there in the 1980's, and could remember just one gay bar, and that was about it. Now, the place feels almost like West Hollywood.
 My friend Doug and I arrived on a Continental flight from Newark in March, with a plane change in Houston, early enough in the afternoon to check in at the Blue Chairs and hit the beach right downstairs. Blue Chairs is the unrivaled daytime epicenter of gay social life in Puerto Vallarta.
 ''Ten years ago, it was just a place on the beach, with blue chairs, where gay people would gather in the afternoon to play volleyball,'' said David Lansley, an American whose Mexican boyfriend, Paco Ruiz, was a pioneer in Puerto Vallarta's evolution into a gay-friendly place when he opened the Club Paco Paco disco, which beats until 6 o'clock each morning in the heart of the gay zone on the southern edge of the city, around Olas Altas Street and Los Muertos Beach. 
 Now, Blue Chairs is an institution. The six-floor, 40-room hotel, which opened in May 2001, rises high above the beach below. Its rooftop Blue Sunset Bar offers a nearly mandatory happy hour and weekly parties that range from bingo to karaoke to Hollywood movie night (outside under the stars).
 Blue Chairs also offers massages and facials, and a weekly ''booze cruise.'' And of course, there is the lively repartee found daily amid the blue chairs and umbrellas on the beach, where gay men (and a few women) are catered to by handsome waiters who ferry good food and potent drinks from the hotel's kitchen out to the sands. When we were there, the crowd was friendly, mostly over 30, and mostly from the Midwest or West Coast. 
 For a gay beach scene, it was pretty low key. Many there said they go back to Puerto Vallarta every year, not only for the gay scene but also the relaxed atmosphere and gorgeous natural surroundings. 
 The neighborhood was a rundown area of low-rise buildings and empty lots and storefronts until about a decade ago, when gay Mexicans and Americans began investing in bars, hotels, shops and restaurants. Now it is known affectionately as the Zona Romantica. Within its square mile or so, the Zona now packs in 16 gay bars and nightclubs (two more clubs lie just north of the Cuale River, downtown) and 12 gay or gay-friendly hotels and guest houses. Hotel Mercurio, for example, is a quiet lodge just off of Olas Altas, set around a peaceful Mexican courtyard. It was opened last year by Paul Crist, who moved there from Washington, D.C. 
 ''This area has really taken off in the last year or two.'' Mr. Crist said. ''I think we have reached critical mass in terms of gay businesses.'' 
 Some travelers find the scene too intense, and get away from the bustle by heading for Paco's Paradise, a sort of gay Gilligan's Island sleep-away camp that can only be reached by boat. Isolated and beautiful on the south shore of Banderas Bay, Paco's offers snorkeling, kayaking, volleyball and good food to those who find their way there. 
 We made Paco's a day trip, taking a cab from Puerto Vallarta about 10 miles south along a winding coastal road with spectacular views of the rugged green mountains and brilliant indigo bay. Just past Mismaloya, where John Huston filmed Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in ''Night of the Iguana,'' we reached Boca de Tomatlan, a picture-perfect fishing village on a sharply angled cove, the departure point for launches to Paco's.
 The rustic outpost is carved from the jungle on a small cove. Overnight guests stay in a three-story stone structure with two private suites and a dorm room. There is hot water, but no electricity. We ate lunch, swam in the turquoise water and took the 5 o'clock boat back with a dozen or so day-trippers, most of them gay men.
 Back in town, besides the hotels, there are many inexpensive condos available. At Amantes del Sol, for example, a gorgeous two-story penthouse with jungle and ocean views is $75 a night in high season, late fall to early spring, $35 in low season.
 The condo is a short walk from a cluster of businesses that welcome gays and straights. The Zona Romantica is by no means exclusively gay. Its shops and restaurants attract local residents and tourists from all over the city. 
 Cafe Bohemio offers good home-cooked Mexican and international food on a romantic patio strung with tiny white lights. Across the street is the Coffee Cup, a favorite of gay tourists on their way to the beach in the morning.
 The night life, I would say, equals or rivals that of almost any midsized metropolis in North America. In Puerto Vallarta, what visitors will find is a new, state-of-the art discotheque called NYPV, a cavernous, sleek, pulsating club that could have been flown in directly from Manhattan. The light and sound systems are first class, the staff is courteous and professional, and the V.I.P. room is adorned with original signed prints by Erte. 
 Other places include Ranch and the adjoining Club Paco Paco, which stays open till dawn, and Balcones and Antropology, popular for their go-go dancers. Quieter bars include La Noche, Frida and DeWayne's Oasis, which has a beautiful walled-in garden and airy deck with a bar on the roof.
 Given all that night life, early birds are not much in evidence. But there are many inviting daytime activities.
 Besides cruises on party boats, there are also whale-watching trips specifically for gays, scuba diving excursions and journeys on foot or horseback into the jungles and villages of the surrounding Sierra Madre.
 With so much gay tourism, it was only a matter of time before a gay and lesbian business association made the scene. That happened late last year when Ambiente Puerto Vallarta was formed. (Ambiente is Spanish slang for gay). It already has more than 50 members, said Teri Reed, a lesbian expatriate from Seattle and the new group's executive director.
 Ms. Reed said that Puerto Vallarta had always been attractive to Mexican gays because of its live-and-let-live atmosphere and laid-back social climate. That's not to say that everyone in town is thrilled to see the resort converted into a gay attraction. 
 Mexico is still a socially conservative, predominantly Catholic country where public discussion of homosexuality is rare. In Puerto Vallarta, some of the town's socially prominent women complained about three years ago about the rising number of gay tourists. They were dismayed at public displays of affection by same-sex couples and worried that it would be a bad influence on children. 
 When an American tour promoter printed a brochure saying that Puerto Vallarta was ''where the boys are,'' some residents thought it was promoting pedophilia. The miscommunication was cleared up after a meeting between the promoter and civic leaders. Any residual tension has since abated, Ms. Reed said.
 Martin Rodriguez, a former president of the Puerto Vallarta Chamber of Commerce, agreed that any tensions that existed had subsided. 
 ''It has been an informal process,'' he said, ''but today I don't see any problems. Relations between local authorities and the gay business organization are mutually respectful and very positive.''
 Indeed, the social climate seems overwhelmingly tolerant. 
 ''It's economics,'' Ms. Reed said. ''There is tolerance and acceptance because we bring a lot of money into the community, even more than straight people.'' 
 Perhaps that is why men can be seen holding hands inside the Zona Romantica, something that would be unthinkable almost anywhere else in Mexico. 
 Charles Prizzi, a flight attendant from New Jersey who was in Puerto Vallarta on his first trip to Mexico, said he was ''pleasantly surprised'' at how open and tolerant the place seemed. He added that he appreciated the ''terrific camaraderie'' he found, not only among the foreign gay tourists but also between gay Mexicans and North Americans as well.
 ''I'm not so much into the night life; that's not why I chose Puerto Vallarta,'' Mr. Prizzi said. ''But as a gay person traveling by myself, I met lots of people to hang out with and have dinner with. The whole scene is really social, really nice and relaxed.''

In the romantic zone
 A guide to gay vacations in Puerto Vallarta is on the Web at www.guidevallarta.com. High season is November through April. Prices below are at 11.5 pesos to the dollar, but many places give rates in dollars. 

Where to Stay
 Blue Chairs Beach Resort, at Malecon 4; (52-322) 222-5040, or in the United States (866) 514-7969; fax (229) 336-0065; www.bluechairs.com, has 40 rooms. Doubles range from $49 to $199; suites, $99 to $229.
 Hotel Mercurio, Francisca Rodriguez 168, (52-322) 222-4793, fax (52-322) 222-1419, www.hotel-mercurio.com, has 27 rooms for $45 to $93.
 Amantes del Sol, Villa Santa Barbara, www.amantesdelsol.com, has two condominium units with ocean views. Rates: $35 to $75. 
 Paco's Paradise, (52-322) 293-4423, www.pacopaco.com/paradise, is reached by boat from Boca de Tomatlan. There are two suites for $39 to $69 a night, including two meals, and dorm room beds for $15 with breakfast. A day use fee of $11.50 includes the boat.

Where to Eat
 Cafe Bohemio, Rodolfo Gomez 127, (52-322) 223-4676, serves Mexican and international dishes nightly except Sunday. Dinner for two with drinks, about $30.
 At the Blue Chairs Beach Resort, Malecon 4, (52-322) 222-5040, a beach bar serves breakfast and lunch daily ($4 to $16). In high season, the restaurant serves Sunday brunch ($10 with drink) and nightly dinner (about $16 with a drink). 

Where to Dance
 NYPV Bar New York, Ignacio L. Vallarta 399, (52-322) 222-7261, is open nightly until 6 a.m. Cover, on Thursday to Saturday, $11.50 and up. 
 Club Paco Paco, Ignacio L. Vallarta 278, (52-322) 222-1899, is also open nightly until 6 a.m. Cover: $2.20 to $4.50. 


CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 16 about Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, as a gay vacation destination referred incorrectly to the cast of the 1964 film ''The Night of the Iguana,'' which was filmed in the area. While Richard Burton was indeed the lead, Elizabeth Taylor, who accompanied him during filming, was not in the cast.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Los Muertos Beach at Puerto Vallarta, on the Bahia de Banderas. La Noche is one of quieter bars in town. Benny Gibson, left, and Brian Wall at the beach at Blue Chairs Resort. A drag queen show at Club Paco Paco. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbraukas for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting Puerto Vallarta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); BEACHES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); FILM (65%); MASSAGE SERVICES (60%) Travel and Vacations; Homosexuality

PERSON: David Kirby

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Puerto Vallarta (Mex); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



357 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Before You Could Say Jackie Robinson

BYLINE: By Warren Goldstein. 
Warren Goldstein, who teaches history at the University of Hartford, is the author, most recently, of ''William Sloane Coffin Jr.: A Holy Impatience.''

 BODY:

NEGRO LEAGUE BASEBALL
The Rise and Ruin
of a Black Institution.
By Neil Lanctot.
Illustrated. 496 pp. Philadelphia:
University of Pennsylvania Press. $34.95.
 DESPITE the evident messiness of the past, few of us -- including historians -- can resist the temptation to read history as a morality tale. Whether we write or read about war or workers, presidents or politics, we find it difficult to let go of the hope that good (even the better side of a complex figure) will triumph over bad. Small wonder, then, that the story of major-league baseball's integration in the 1940's and 1950's has become a modern morality play, featuring the wily white businessman Branch Rickey and the fiery black player Jackie Robinson, along with Robinson's heroic performances on and off the bench, black fans' mass embrace of Robinson and the Brooklyn Dodgers, and most white fans' gradual, if often grudging, acceptance of Robinson and the impressive group of pioneering black players in the major leagues. This story allows Americans to feel strong and good emotions, and to take pride in one of our few successes in race matters. 
 Prodigiously researched and thoroughly unsentimental, Neil Lanctot's history of organized black baseball from 1933 through the early 1960's provides an enormously important historical corrective to this feel-good version of baseball integration. In order to get beyond the traditional accounts of the Negro leagues -- ''marred,'' he says, accurately, by ''reductive analyses, an appalling number of inaccuracies'' and a focus ''on the exploits of individual players and teams without attention to historical context or the actual administration of the leagues themselves'' -- Lanctot, who teaches history at the University of Delaware, claims to have read ''virtually every sports page of every black newspaper located in a league city,'' supplementing this with interviews, court records and archival digging. The result is a most comprehensive study of the business side of the Negro leagues. Even though they often lie buried beneath a mass of blow-by-blow, season-by-season details, Lanctot's judgments can be pointed, persuasive and at times profound. 
 Even in the relatively prosperous 1920's, the Negro leagues had been marked by unreliable scheduling, nasty business rivalries between owners and leagues, and players jumping from team to team for better salaries. Late in the decade, these leagues all folded. Enter the dominant figure of the 1930's black baseball business -- William Augustus Greenlee, the Pittsburgh-based numbers racketeer who owned the legendary Pittsburgh Crawfords and revived the defunct Negro National League in 1933. A ''larger-than-life figure possessing a considerable bankroll and an abundance of street smarts, toughness and bluntness,'' Greenlee initiated a shaky league of seven franchises, many of them financed by numbers money, that barely wobbled to a finish that year -- a pattern repeated, with a shifting cast of teams, mostly in the East, for the rest of the decade. (In late 1936 a Negro American League started up, with teams from the Midwest and South.) Greenlee's most important innovation, ''the sole positive development in an otherwise dreadful 1933 season,'' Lanctot writes, was the East-West All-Star Game (modeled on the just-begun major-league All-Star Game), which evolved into the most prominent annual showcase for black baseball. 
 Black professional baseball leagues faced so many obstacles that their very existence compels a kind of wonder. The Depression hit blacks far harder than whites, so even fewer blacks had discretionary income to spend on ballgames. Professional sports franchises required substantial funds for payroll and transportation, means generally far beyond the reach of legitimate black businesses. Most club officials either made their money illicitly or relied on white investors or owners. Since so few black owners could afford their own stadiums (Greenlee was the exception, though even his lacked a grandstand roof), they had to pay white stadium owners rental fees, often steep. Black ball clubs operated on thinner margins than their white counterparts, so a run of bad weather could have disastrous consequences.
 The Negro leagues faced equally daunting internal problems, what Lanctot calls ''remarkably shoddy administration.'' Owners wrangled constantly, never installing a truly independent commissioner to resolve disputes. They made no rules governing player movement and did not even routinely provide their players with contracts. Teams did not regularly keep score or report statistics to league offices. The leagues consistently frustrated sportswriters, who complained bitterly about how little basic information -- like statistics and standings -- came their way. Nor did the leagues have the resources to oversee or insist on the authority of umpires, who could be, and often were, intimidated by players. 
 Fortunately for the players and for fans across the country, black clubs did not rely on league baseball for most of their games or their income. They barnstormed far from their home parks, playing teams of white ballplayers in the off-season, and black semipro teams all the time. 
 As the overall economy improved dramatically during World War II, so did the financial health of the Negro leagues. The Kansas City Monarchs netted nearly $260,000 from 1942 to 1946, as black fans, for the first time in a decade, had enough income to spend it regularly on ballgames. Core difficulties remained, however, problems that had dogged the black game for decades. ''Ironically,'' Lanctot notes, ''as black baseball reached its financial peak, it remained firmly bound to the whims of whites,'' particularly white owners' willingness to rent their ballparks. 
 The larger truth was that black baseball, like segregated public schools, hospitals and recreational facilities (but less like churches, newspapers or colleges), had always inhabited a nether world that owed its existence entirely to white racism and white-enforced segregation. Black players were willing to play black baseball because that was all they could do; fans and sportswriters, on the other hand, could use different standards. Black businessmen, journalists and consumers had long debated whether they should patronize black businesses simply because they were black, especially if they offered second-rate products or services. 
 Black fans sometimes patronized major-league baseball in the place of black ball because it was better run, more predictable and easier to follow. The flamboyant pitcher Satchel Paige was the biggest draw in black baseball, but he frequently pitched only two or three innings at a time, to save himself for multiple appearances -- and multiple paychecks. The black sportswriter Dan Burley followed a long line of criticism when he wrote in 1943, ''There is no need of kidding ourselves; colored baseball is but a poor shadow of the major league -- the real thing.''
 As pressure for integration grew throughout American society during and after World War II, the principal black foes of baseball integration remained, understandably enough, the Negro league owners, who rightly saw the danger to businesses they had nurtured in the face of nearly overwhelming obstacles but now seemed powerless to protect. Lanctot provides a detailed picture of the baseball world during and after Branch Rickey's signing of Jackie Robinson; his account is the most extensive to date that focuses on the overall context of the first few years of baseball's integration rather than on Robinson himself.
 It is not a pretty picture. Lanctot shows just how much major-league owners wanted to keep the income from renting their ballparks to black clubs, and he details clubs' resistance -- often in the face of political pressure -- to signing black players. Rickey refused to compensate the Kansas City Monarchs for Robinson or the Baltimore Elite Giants for Roy Campanella or the Newark Eagles for Don Newcombe. True, none had contracts; when, in 1946, Rickey signed the Philadelphia Stars' Roy Partlow (who did have a contract), he offered the club a paltry, if symbolic, payment of $1,000. Rickey paid the Memphis Red Sox $15,000 for the pitcher Dan Bankhead; Bill Veeck, the owner of the Cleveland Indians, paid the Newark Eagles $15,000 for Larry Doby's contract in 1947. Robinson himself published a stinging criticism of black baseball -- ''What's Wrong With Negro Baseball'' -- just before the 1948 season, joining Rickey in ''demonstrating,'' Lanctot observes, ''little sympathy for the previous decades of struggle to establish the industry'' and the extraordinary difficulties it had faced. 
 While the Negro league owners began to put their administrative houses in better order -- offering player contracts and trying to affiliate with organized baseball -- they were too late. Lanctot suggests that while they might have lasted a bit longer as a farm system -- recruiting, training and then selling their best players to the majors -- the overall trend toward integration in American life (in professional basketball and football as well) had drawn black attention, almost en masse, toward the exploits of black players in newly integrated leagues.
 Without nostalgia, Lanctot offers a careful and balanced judgment on the Negro leagues, one that is likely to stand for some time. He points out that by the mid-1950's, organized baseball employed more black ballplayers, at all levels of the game, than the 200 on Negro league teams ''at their peak in the mid-1940's.'' 
 On the other hand, ''black baseball and other separate enterprises helped build an irreplaceable sense of collective solidarity, identity and self-esteem'' for which ''no adequate replacement has emerged.'' Especially not in organized baseball, which proved much less interested in attracting black fans (fearing white flight) than in signing players. By the late 1980's black attendance had fallen to ''as low as 3 percent'' in Chicago and Philadelphia, cities ''that had once enthusiastically supported black baseball.'' At the level of players, baseball is changing too: while American blacks occupied 27 percent of major-league roster slots in 1975, last July they accounted for just 10 percent. Even the story of baseball integration, it turns out, is no simple morality play. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ed Lam)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LITERATURE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews ; Baseball

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: Warren Goldstein; Neil Lanctot

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



358 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 19; THE WAY We LIVE NOW: 5-16-04: QUESTIONS FOR MARTHA SCHWARTZ

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Can America Go Public?

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: You're an establishment figure -- an adjunct professor at Harvard Design School and the owner of a prominent firm -- but you've been called the wild child of landscape architecture. What, exactly, can landscape architects do besides plant hedges? 
 I think the landscape is everything outside the building footprint. It is the moment you walk out of the house and enter the world. 
 A lot of Americans never enter the world, though. Instead, they enter their cars, which are extensions of the home. 
 But when you are in your car, you are traveling in public space. Cars are parked on asphalt. The asphalt is our landscape. The streets are our landscape. The landscape is everything out there, and it looks like hell. The United States is looking uglier and uglier. We are sprawling out, and so little value is given to our landscape. 
 Maybe we just don't have enough money to beautify every corner of the country.
 People spend more on their bathrooms than on their grounds. And they spend 
 more per square foot on their kitchens than they would ever put into an open public space. 
 The problem is that our notion of the quality of life ends at our front door. 
 I would guess that most buildings go up without much of a budget for landscape architecture.
 I did work on one project where there was so little budget that we were left with just earth. Dirt. That was in Southern California, for a shopping center.
 Is there a solution? 
 When the government gets involved in setting standards, as they do in the United Kingdom, France and Germany, the building quality is much higher. Both buildings and their environments in this country have been surpassed by what is going on in Europe. Most of the shopping malls in America don't use real designers. But in Europe they do. 
 But the price for their taste is snobbery. Besides, they do have strip malls all over Europe. 
 They have far fewer of them, because they don't have the land to throw away. Strip malls pop up where there is a lot of cheap land, for lots of surface parking. It's economics. 
 The strip is a visual expression of bottom-line thinking. 
 One thing I have never understood is why the developers of shopping centers put acres of parking in front of the building instead of tucking it away in the back. 
 To attract customers. They want to show them that there is plenty of convenient parking. 
 What do you think is the least attractive city in this country? 
 Oh, there are so many ugly American cities! Atlanta has got to be on the top of the list. It is so sprawling. And 60 percent of the surface area downtown is surface parking. I love L.A., but L.A. is pretty ugly. Houston. Hello? 
 But what about cities like San Francisco or Miami, which are pretty great in terms of visual opulence? 
 They're interesting, but they go on and on. It's not the downtowns in America that are the problem. It's the ever-expanding edges, the loose, undense development. You are not going to solve that by sending out a million talented architects.
 You live in Cambridge, Mass. 
 Boston is like a black hole. There's nothing here. 
 It has Paul Revere's house. I love that little building.
 I do, too. But there is a paucity of good new buildings. 
 And you just opened an office in London. Do you enjoy traveling back and forth? 
 What I don't like is being away from my family. I have a 20-year-old, a 17-year-old and a 21-month-old. 
 You had a baby when you were in your 50's? 
 I'm 53. I figured that having a baby at my age would either keep me young or kill me. 
 Do you think parents should try to control the often wild landscape of their children's bedrooms? 
 I don't have the emotional energy to get into it. I just close the door. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Allan Penn)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ETHICS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%) Landscaping; Urban Areas; Suburbs; Ethics; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Labor

PERSON: Martha Schwartz; Martha Solomon; Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



359 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2; On Baseball

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Twins Give Nice Twist To Athletics' 'Moneyball'

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
TERRY RYAN will never rise to the glamour level of Billy Beane, and the Minnesota Twins will never be as celebrated as the Oakland Athletics. No one is likely to write a best-selling book about Ryan and the Twins, as has been done about Beane and the Athletics.
 But the Twins deserve every bit as much attention and credit as the Athletics have received in recent seasons, turning a low-budget band of young players into a championship team.
 The Athletics have won the American League West three of the last four seasons; the Twins have won the A.L. Central title the past two years without the assistance of a pitching staff that includes Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder and Barry Zito, the foundation of Oakland's champions, statistics notwithstanding.
 While the Athletics have struggled in the early weeks of this season, the Twins are in first place again. After defeating Chicago, 4-1, last night, they are three games ahead of the White Sox. They are defending their division championship with a $53.5 million payroll, which ranks 20th in the major leagues. The Athletics' payroll is 17th at $58.8 million. 
 ''If I had to pick a model, it would be the Twins,'' San Diego General Manager Kevin Towers said. ''That's a club I always look at and say, 'If we could do what the Twins do, I'd be pretty pleased.' I have great admiration for Terry.''
 Besides the way he has rebuilt the Twins on a small budget in his 10 years as general manager, Ryan earned considerable respect and admiration after the 2001 season by forgoing an opportunity to take another job.
 The Twins were the No. 1 target for contraction, and it appeared that Ryan's job might be yanked from under him. But when the Toronto Blue Jays invited him to be interviewed for their general manager's job, he declined, saying he wanted to remain loyal to Twins employees.
 Ryan's employees have repaid his loyalty. ''We've tried to get a couple of their scouts and they won't leave,'' Towers said.
 The Twins did not go anywhere, either, but went on to finish first under a new manager, Ron Gardenhire, in the two seasons after the talk of contraction. Finishing first this season was going to be more difficult once the Twins, for economic reasons, traded catcher A. J. Pierzynski and starting pitcher Eric Milton, and let starting pitcher Kenny Rogers and relievers Eddie Guardado and LaTroy Hawkins leave as free agents. ''Unfortunately, when you look at the economics, there are only so many players you can put into the equation,'' Ryan said. ''We always have tough decisions to make during the winter.'' 
 Ryan, as it has turned out, traded judiciously. For Milton, he got Carlos Silva, who has become the team's most successful starting pitcher, with a 5-0 record and a 3.11 earned run average. For Pierzynski, he got Joe Nathan, who has replaced Guardado as the closer and has gained 12 saves in 13 opportunities and has a 1.37 E.R.A.
 ''Silva has been a pleasant surprise,'' Ryan said of the 25-year-old right-hander. ''When we made the acquisition, we weren't positive that he could start. But people in the Philadelphia organization said we should consider using him as a starter. He's been very consistent. He pounds strikes, is a good worker and is diligent in his preparation.''
 Silva relieved 129 times and started once in two seasons with the Phillies, but he was primarily a starter in the minor leagues. Nathan, 29, was not a closer in one full season and parts of three others with San Francisco, but he became the setup man last year when Tim Worrell became the closer in place of the injured Robb Nen.
 Injuries have threatened to undermine the Twins' quest for a third consecutive division title. 
 The rookie catcher Joe Mauer is out with a knee injury sustained in the second game (he is expected back in about two weeks), and center fielder Torii Hunter was on the disabled list with a strained hamstring. 
 ''That's when Ford came in,'' Ryan said. ''He's done a nice job.''
 Lew Ford, who batted .329 in 34 games for the Twins last season, was summoned from the minors a week into the season and has become the team's No. 1 hitter with a .339 average and 23 runs batted in. ''He was about the last guy we sent out in spring training, so it's not all that big a surprise,'' Ryan said. ''He did a nice job for us when he was up last year. We sent him out because we didn't want guys sitting around.'' 
 Despite the Twins' continued success, Ryan is not ready to put them on the Athletics' level. Nor is he ready to concede anything to Oakland's way of doing things.
 ''All of us evaluate in the same fashion,'' said Ryan, who came up through the scouting ranks. ''We all do the statistical background. I know there's a lot of publicity about Oakland, but a lot of teams do that. When we evaluate players, we go into statistics, but we're not totally statistically oriented. It's not the total reason we make decisions.''

The Windup, the Pitch, the Pitch . . .
 Most players would not be able to make contact with 14 consecutive pitches in one at-bat, let alone foul them all.
 But that is what Alex Cora did against Matt Clement of the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday night in one of the most remarkable at-bats any batter will experience.
 Cora, the Los Angeles second baseman, finished the at-bat with a flourish, punctuating it with a home run over the right-field fence, making his effort even more incredible. The home run came on the 18th pitch. Cora took the first three pitches (ball-strike-ball), then began his unrelenting series of foul balls. 
 Cora, a left-handed hitter, said he did not deliberately try to hit any of the pitches foul.
 ''I was looking for something to hit in the hole,'' he said. ''We had a man at first. I was trying to put runners at first and third. I just took deep breaths and relaxed. The fans were getting into it. Clement started taking his time between pitches.''
 After he fouled off the 11th pitch, Cora said, ''They put it on the scoreboard, which I thought was pretty cool.''
 In his first two at-bats, Cora saw four pitches, but by the time he faced Clement again in the seventh inning, Clement's velocity had slowed enough so that Cora had an easier time adjusting to the pitches. ''He surprised me because he was throwing a nasty cutter,'' Cora said. ''He used to be a sinker-slider guy.''
 Cora said he did not get tired while he was batting, but afterward he said, ''When I went to play defense, I kind of felt it.''

Bonds Now Looking Up at .400
 So much for .400.
 Since hitting his 10th and last home run on April 29, Barry Bonds had one hit in 22 at-bats in a nine-game stretch dating to last Wednesday night, and his average plummeted 134 points, to .356 from .490. In the last game of that period, against Philadelphia, Bonds was 0 for 4, grounding into a double play, flying out twice to left field and grounding out to first base. 
 Because he has been walked so many times (15 in those nine games), Bonds has far fewer official at-bats than others who play regularly, meaning his average can fall quickly, which it has. And it will not go back up as quickly. If Bonds were to collect 11 hits in 22 at-bats after that stretch, his average would be .389.

Cubs Pitchers: How Low Can They Go?
 The Cubs had the lowest earned run average among major league rotations entering yesterday's games, but they were not in the best shape.
 The Cubs' 3.28 E.R.A. was better than San Diego's 3.70 and Houston's 3.71, but they were still without Mark Prior, who has not pitched this season, and now Kerry Wood will miss at least one start. 
 Cubs General Manager Jim Hendry said Prior was over his problems (Achilles', back, elbow), was building up his arm strength and was expected to pitch for the Cubs early in June. Wood has tendinitis in his triceps and inflammation in his elbow, but Hendry said the Cubs were hoping he would miss only one start.
 Meanwhile, the Astros had the best record among starting rotations, 18-9. The Cubs' record was 16-11.

If You're Scoring (or Not) at Home
 In the major leagues' first 477 games, through last Tuesday, teams had played three 1-0 games. In the next two days, 29 games, they also played three 1-0 games. 
 None of the starting pitchers in last week's games finished. In their abbreviated efforts, Tom Glavine of the Mets beat Randy Johnson of Arizona, Johan Santana of Minnesota beat Ryan Franklin of Seattle and Daniel Cabrera of Baltimore beat Jon Garland of the Chicago White Sox.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlos Silva, acquired by the Twins from the Phillies for Eric Milton, has a 5-0 record and 3.11 E.R.A.
From left, Greg Maddux, Kerry Wood and Mark Prior. Although Prior has yet to pitch this season, the Cubs' starting rotation has a 3.28 E.R.A. (Photos by Associated Press)
 Dodgers second baseman Alex Cora ended an 18-pitch at-bat with a home run last Tuesday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BUDGETS (76%); BESTSELLERS (72%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (55%) Minnesota Twins; San Francisco Giants

PERSON: Murray Chass; Barry Bonds

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



360 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11; BackTalk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Baseball Fans Have Become Enablers

BYLINE: By GREGORY JORDAN. 
Gregory Jordan is a freelance writer from Baltimore.

 BODY:
Neither outlandish salaries nor labor strikes, not pine tar nor pharmaceuticals seem to be able to keep us baseball fans away from the game. But Fay Vincent, one of baseball's most diligent guardians, remembers how the cocaine scandal of the mid-1980's threatened the major leagues' immune system as steroids have yet to do. 
 ''There was a point during the cocaine crisis where we were on the verge of seeing a real fan revolt,'' Vincent, commissioner of baseball from 1989 to 1992, said in an interview. ''I threw Steve Howe out of baseball for life after eight drug violations,'' and six previous suspensions. ''The union is ludicrous, it doesn't seem to care what a player does. But the players getting caught up in cocaine significantly jeopardized fans' trust.'' 
 And so, just as it was fan reaction that dictated baseball's response in the 1980's, it is the fans' judgment, or the lack thereof, that drives the policies and punishments that will be made by players and the majors. At stake is not so much the definition of historical records, but the credibility of the democratic myth that so many of us hope baseball fulfills.
 Some of today's home run hitters admit to taking legal, albeit suspicious, substances to enhance their performance. Others are suspected of taking illegal ones. This follows a long trend in baseball of trickery that Vincent considers part of the game's lore.
 ''In terms of steroids, there have always been performance-enhancing things players took,'' Vincent said. ''Coffee was all over the dugout in the old days. Pills, they used to call them greenies, uppers, were all over the clubhouse in the 70's. You can't compare the game across time because so many variables have changed. Records are not attributable to steroids.''
 But during the cocaine scandal, baseball did what baseball, according to its mythologizers, does best: hold America up to itself. We saw a dire social problem reflected back at us. In a perverse way, the fans' proximity to the players was never closer. We saw some as playboys, but others as tragically flawed people battling addictions. Today, the alleged abuse of steroids widens the remove between players and fans. Our continued cheering and their appearance and accomplishments become suspiciously artificial.
 Time, and federal investigators, will soon tell if today's simmering events are worthy of an 80's-style response. But the essential difference here -- promiscuous abuse of street drugs versus what looks like the calculated use of performance enhancers -- already points to hypocrisy among baseball fandom. Although the science on the long-term effect of steroids on health is evolving, there remains the bare fact that cocaine and steroids, in this sports context, are illegal.
 And some observers, unlike Vincent, believe that baseball fans, turning our heads faster than we do to watch a line drive, are complicit in this one along with the boys from Balco and the United States Congress, which relaxed the approval process for over-the-counter supplements in 1994.
 ''The lack of public focus today compared with the 80's crisis starts with the league,'' said Kenneth Shropshire, a professor specializing in sports business at the Wharton School. ''The league was very aggressive, severe on cocaine. Fans understood the criminality of cocaine and crack. Fans are just learning that the possession and sale of steroids can actually be a crime. For the purity of the game and the equality of performance, you would expect more fan concern. But there's another layer here -- a socioeconomic and racial one in which steroids just aren't seen as a threat to society.'' 
 Shropshire believes that most fans saw cocaine, and particularly crack, as ''an inner city, ultradirty problem'' that tainted baseball's image and, importantly, undermined players' performance. These social layers of the cocaine crisis were implicit but never fully examined publicly. The criminality of the cocaine scandal evoked a visceral reaction, and the fans forced the short-term crackdown. 
 But a much more subtle responsibility rests with fans today. Our condoning of supplemented performance -- induced legally by creatine or illegally by stronger stuff -- resembles the cultural endorsement of appearance at all cost. The threat to the game in the mid-80's was a societal problem that the game shared. The threat to baseball today is its decline from sport to entertainment. 
 Mark Taylor, a professor at Williams College, is teaching a course this semester called ''Real Fakes.'' The thesis is the slipperiness of contemporary reality, and baseball is a theme.
 Taylor said that on the Web site for the course, realfakes.org, ''I have a quiz asking whether things are real, fake or real fakes.''
 ''I put Barry Bonds's home run record on the quiz,'' he said. ''The natural has become artificial and baseball becomes another version of reality television. Everyone knows reality television is staged. We are seeing the acceptance of the real as fake and the fake as real.''
 Sport, traditionally, was the last domain of unadulterated, democratic achievement. Comparing outsized sluggers with the string beanish Roger Maris, however, is like placing P. Diddy alongside the guitar maestro Bo Diddly in the American music pantheon. More and more, fans are saying with our applause that we accept, and perhaps even prefer, baseball to be entertainment instead of artistry.
 Indeed, with the fluctuating bosom sizes of Hollywood starlets, the analogy between bulked-up baseball and show business becomes too easy. To long for the method acting of Marlon Brando alongside the craftsmanship of Henry Aaron is not to be overly nostalgic. It is to cherish craft over contrivance, skill over cosmetics. As baseball players in their mid-30's defy metabolic laws by bulking up beyond reasonable proportion, one wonders if such inflation, and inflated records, will ever set off fans' alarms.
 It is enough to leave some fans perversely longing for the mid-80's, when the alignment of a social crisis and a baseball controversy gave additional gravity to a game that we wanted to symbolize more than mere success.


GRAPHIC: Photo: This sign at Shea Stadium alleging steroid use by the Giants' Barry Bonds has been one of the rare indications of fan disenchantment with supplement use by baseball players. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (98%); SPORTS FANS (91%); STEROIDS (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); STRIKES (78%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TRENDS (73%) Baseball; Records and Achievements; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Steroids

PERSON: Gregory Jordan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



361 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: Still Separate, Still Unequal

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
Samuel G. Freedman, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, is the author of books on an inner-city school and a black church, among other subjects. This month, he begins writing the ''On Education'' column for The Times while Michael Winerip is on leave.

 BODY:

ALL DELIBERATE SPEED
Reflections on the First Half Century
of Brown v. Board of Education.
By Charles J. Ogletree Jr.
Illustrated. 365 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95.

SILENT COVENANTS
Brown v. Board of Education and the Unfulfilled Hopes for Racial Reform.
By Derrick Bell.
230 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $25.

THE FAILURES
OF INTEGRATION
How Race and Class Are Undermining the American Dream.
By Sheryll Cashin.
391 pp. New York:
PublicAffairs. $26.
 SEVERAL weeks after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. announced his departure from Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Ala., epicenter of the bus boycott that had lifted him and the civil rights crusade to international attention, two of his congregants paid a farewell visit. Both John Feagin Sr. and his wife Lurlene had taught in Montgomery's all-black Carver High School, and so the conversation that day late in 1959 turned naturally enough to the subject of desegregating schools. King's words, as recounted later by Feagin in a book about the church, surely would have shocked many of the minister's supporters.
 ''I favor integration on buses and in all areas of public accommodation and travel,'' King said. ''I am for equality. However, I think integration in our public schools is different. In that setting, you are dealing with one of the most important assets of an individual -- the mind. White people view black people as inferior. A large percentage of them have a very low opinion of our race. People with such a low view of the black race cannot be given free rein and put in charge of the intellectual care and development of our boys and girls.'' 
 In his apostasy from civil rights doctrine, King was expressing misgivings similar to those of forebears like W. E. B. Du Bois. Writing in The Journal of Negro Education in 1935, Du Bois maintained ''the Negro needs neither segregated schools nor mixed schools. What he needs is Education.'' He had put it even more bluntly in an editorial a year earlier in the magazine The Crisis: ''Thinking colored people of the United States must stop being stampeded by the word segregation. . . . It is the race-conscious black man cooperating together with his own institutions and movements who will eventually emancipate the colored race.''
 In their wary view of integrated public schools, and in their esteem for black people's own institutions, Du Bois and King anticipated the profoundly ambiguous emotions many African-Americans harbor on the 50th anniversary of the Supreme Court's ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, the case that struck down the principle of ''separate but equal'' in public education. In theory, the decision should have meant the end of school segregation, but in fact its legacy has proven far more muddled. While the principle of affirmative action under the trendy code word ''diversity'' has brought unparalleled integration into higher education, the military and corporate America, the sort of local school districts that Brown supposedly addressed have rarely become meaningfully integrated. In some respects, the black poor are more hopelessly concentrated in failing urban schools than ever, cut off not only from whites but from the flourishing black middle class.
 The anguish of this outcome informs books by Derrick Bell, Sheryll Cashin and Charles J. Ogletree Jr. ruminating on the aftermath of Brown. What makes their despair more significant -- what makes these books virtually a brain scan of the black intelligentsia, circa 2004 -- is that all three authors so plainly benefited from Brown. At the ages of 51 and 42, respectively, Ogletree and Cashin are what Ogletree calls ''Brown babies.'' Bell was just completing military duty in Korea and heading into law school when the ruling was released. And all have gone on to high achievement and stature. Ogletree is a professor of law at Harvard, Cashin at Georgetown, Bell at New York University.
 Yet from book to book, the tone remains one of precisely argued, carefully modulated outrage. If there is a single emblematic moment, it comes in the opening pages of Bell's ''Silent Covenants,'' when he recalls the scene at Yale University two years ago when the judge and civil rights lawyer Robert L. Carter received an honorary degree. As Yale's president told the mainly white audience that Carter had been instrumental in mounting the Brown case, the listeners rose for a standing ovation, one Bell hardly could bring himself to share. 'Even as I stood and joined in the applause, I wondered,'' he writes. ''How could a decision that promised so much and, by its terms, accomplished so little, have gained so hallowed a place among some of the nation's better educated and most successful individuals''?
 An experienced litigator in civil rights cases, Bell certainly has plenty of facts on his side. Like Ogletree and Cashin, he contends, quite accurately, that the Warren court effectively blunted the impact of its unanimous judgment in Brown by ruling a year later that enforcement should proceed with ''all deliberate speed,'' which meant lots of deliberation and not much speed. The Jim Crow South barely attempted integration for a full decade, and whenever the courts or the federal government tried to compel compliance, America saw an epic confrontation -- at Little Rock Central High School, at the University of Mississippi, in Ruby Bridges' one-girl class in New Orleans, with George Wallace keeping his promise to block the schoolhouse door. Efforts in the 70's to dissolve the de facto segregation of Northern schools through mandatory busing brought bitter, violent opposition, most memorably by working-class whites in Boston. Whatever hopes existed for a more peaceful, and much fairer, version of integration involving a city and its suburbs ended when the Supreme Court in 1974 struck down such a regional program in metropolitan Detroit.
 Given such awful history, no reader should be surprised that the fortunate sons and daughters of post-Brown America evince such cynicism now. Among these three writers, only Cashin in ''The Failures of Integration'' even attempts to push for completing Brown's unfinished agenda with more racial mixing. But the best she can do is point to a handful of diverse school districts (like Maplewood-South Orange in New Jersey) and neighborhoods (like West Mount Airy in Philadelphia) as models to be replicated. Her heart, though, doesn't seem truly invested in the cause. By her own admission, she is an ''ambivalent integrationist'' suffering from ''integration exhaustion.''
 In ''All Deliberate Speed,'' Ogletree presents the journey in the most personal terms of the three authors. As he recollects the segregated neighborhood of his childhood in Merced, Calif., he bears witness to a whole array of vibrant, life-affirming, economically integrated black districts, which were perversely enabled and nourished by segregation. Mr. Henry's grocery, the Knotty Pine Cafe, Moneyback Lee the pawnbroker, Reverend Roberson at the Pentecostal church, Vernon's barbershop -- these were just some of the pillars of a ''nurturing community'' that ''survived through perseverance and resourcefulness.'' From it, young Charles Ogletree grew into the type of young Negro who unashamedly and unironically aspired to be a ''credit to his race,'' as the now-discredited cliche went. He led the student council in his integrated high school, won a scholarship to Stanford and gained admission to Harvard Law School, where even with a ''critical mass of blacks'' in his law school class, he was struck by the ''relative absence'' of blacks in Cambridge.
 It reveals a great deal about Ogletree's selective vision that he gives relatively minimal attention to his own upward mobility or to that of the black classmates around him. From his book and Bell's, a reader would barely know that from 1970 to 1995 some seven million blacks moved into the suburbs -- several million more people than came to northern cities from the rural South in the Great Migration. A reader would barely know that the percentage of black households earning at least $50,000 a year (adjusted for inflation) more than tripled from 9.1 percent in 1967 to 27.8 per cent in 2001, according to census figures. For Ogletree and Bell, such gains wilt next to the persistence of inner-city black poverty and their own experiences of racism. One has to wonder, though, if they consider trumpeting black advances, including their own, somehow disloyal to those left behind. There is a strong undercurrent of survivor guilt in all of these books.
 For Ogletree, the welter of emotions leaves him thinking of Brown as an exercise in bait-and-switch. ''Too often,'' he writes, ''integration is presented as an unalloyed benefit for African-Americans, as if we all had been clamoring to leave our communities. For many in the African-American community, however, integration was viewed with suspicion or something worse. Many communities at the center of the battle for integration, represented by the crusading lawyers of the N.A.A.C.P., would have welcomed something less than the full integration demanded by the civil rights lawyers. Instead, these teachers, school principals and janitors would rather have kept their schools, their jobs and their positions of influence than see their charges bused to white schools run by white principals where white educators often made the children all too grimly aware of their distaste for the new state of affairs.''
 Bell goes ever farther, drafting an alternative verdict in the Brown case. What might have happened, he asks, if instead of overturning the ''separate but equal'' standard that had been enshrined in Plessy v. Ferguson, the Supreme Court had insisted on its meticulous, literal application? What if school districts had been required, under judicial oversight, to provide genuinely equivalent facilities, salaries, classes and curriculums to all-black schools? ''Had this been the Brown decision handed down in 1954,'' Bell suggests, ''both civil rights and school board lawyers would probably, for differing reasons, have condemned it. Yet it makes sense today.''
 Indeed, both Bell and Ogletree place their educational emphasis on charter schools within the public system or independent and parochial schools outside it. Ogletree and his wife helped to found a mostly black charter school in Cambridge, Mass., that emphasizes math and science. Cashin is left defending the ever more elusive goal of integration, and it is no easy task. When she cites examples of diverse districts, one cannot help asking if their schools are internally segregated by tracking. And when Cashin approvingly quotes a white mother in Washington who sends her children to the largely black and sometimes violent public schools -- ''There are worse things than being shot. I don't want my kids to grow up being afraid of black people'' -- she is espousing a standard of enlightment few parents of any color would embrace.
 To her credit, though, Cashin is the only one of the three authors willing to discuss the denigration of education by some black pupils, the self-destructive notion that achieving in school amounts to ''acting white.'' She also asks the difficult but necessary questions about why public schools in the affluent black suburbs of Washington perform worse than those of neighboring, whiter communities. Her book, in fact, might better have been built around its incisive critique of black suburbia than its plaintive plea for idealized diversity. As for Bell and Ogletree, they lost the integration religion long ago, somewhere on the potholed road from Topeka to today.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fifty years ago tomorrow: three lawyers who argued against segregation before the Supreme Court stand beaming before the court's building after its ruling in Brown v. Board on May 17, 1954. From left, George E. C. Hayes, a Washington lawyer
Thurgood Marshall, special counsel for the N.A.A.C.P., himself appointed to the court in 1967
 James Nabrit Jr., professor of law at Howard University. (Photograph by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LITERATURE (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Samuel G Freedman; Charles J Jr Ogletree; Derrick (Prof) Bell; Sheryl Cashin

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



362 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3; The World: S.O.S. to Bush

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: The Next Casualty of the Iraq War Could Be Blair

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A ROUGH rule of the Iraqi war has been this: events that are damaging to President Bush prove close to devastating for Tony Blair, the British prime minister. The outcry over weapons of mass destruction that could not be found was more intense in Britain than America, and now the gruesome photographs from Iraq's Abu Ghraib prison have prompted new talk of Mr. Blair's possible departure.
 The reasons for Mr. Blair's particular vulnerability are threefold. Britain, unlike America, was not attacked by terrorists before it went to war in Iraq, so scrutiny of the motives for war is more searching. Mr. Blair works in a European environment, where skepticism over Iraq is de rigueur. And while the Bush administration came late to human rights as a justification for the war, Mr. Blair embraced it early on, so the prisoner abuse has embarrassed him acutely. 
 The future of Iraq and that of Mr. Blair have become inseparable. Mr. Blair needs to demonstrate quick progress there to quiet the clamor within his Labor Party and rebuff the taunt of the Conservative Party leader, Michael Howard, that he has ''lost his grip.'' Gordon Brown, Mr. Blair's adroit chancellor of the exchequer, is waiting in the wings.
 The British strategy, as outlined by two officials close to Mr. Blair, is vigorous. The government wants a new United Nations Security Council resolution by early June that will give power to Iraqis, set out the country's political future and define the role of the American-led international military force there.
 A genuine transfer of power, a strong United Nations presence in Iraq and a formal end to the period of occupation are the core British aims and the sooner the better. Mr. Blair does not want discussions of the final outcome going down to the wire before the planned June 30 handover to an Iraqi interim government, the makeup of which has yet to be decided. Uncertainty would only feed instability. 
 ''The photos from Abu Ghraib were as bad as you can get in terms of making those who defended America uneasy and those who hate America feel they were right,'' said one of the two officials close to Mr. Blair, both of whom spoke on condition that they not be named. ''What is imperative now is that Iraqi sovereignty be real and not a shell.''
 This objective may provoke tensions with the United States. Several Iraqi ministries have already seen their powers curtailed by the American-led Coalition Provisional Authority. A circumscribed role for the new Iraqi government, including limits on passing laws, has been outlined in Washington, although that position seems to be evolving.
 So can Mr. Blair secure the sweeping Iraqi transition he wants in exchange for his loyalty to President Bush? The next few weeks will be a critical test of his influence. 
 Every week, it seems, Mr. Blair, tries to fend off the charge that his unwavering support for President Bush has made Britain look servile without advancing its interests. ''I have to accept responsibility for the situation I am in,'' Mr. Blair said last week. That situation is the most difficult he has faced in seven years as prime minister. As he knows, the quick fix might be to put some distance between himself and Mr. Bush.
 That, however, will not happen. ''It would be absolute madness to disassociate ourselves from Bush,'' said the official who discussed the prison photos. ''The whole point about an alliance is that you support people in difficult times as well as easy. We are committed to the political process in Iraq.''
 Those who have watched Mr. Blair during visits to the White House or in weekly phone conversations with Mr. Bush insist that the charge that he is too pliant is baseless. If American forces stepped back from a fight to the finish against insurgents in Falluja, Mr. Blair's advice played a role, they say. If there is a ''road map'' toward peace in the Middle East, however murky and bumpy, thank Mr. Blair. If the United Nations and its envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, are at the center of efforts to salvage Iraq, be mindful of Mr. Blair's hand.
 Of course, the problem with the argument that Mr. Blair's influence has been real is that its upshot often looks paltry. Iraq is in disarray, Arab hostility to the West at a high pitch, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as far from resolution as ever.
 For a politician who embarked on his leadership with a radical idea that Britain could remake the European Union in its image and at the same time preserve its special relationship with the United States, this state of affairs is troubling. For his embrace of trans-Atlantic ties at the expense of European ones has cost him support within the European Union while appearing to deliver few benefits. ''Mr. Blair has been frustrated,'' said Jonathan Eyal, a strategic analyst.
 Mr. Blair's most difficult task now may lie in sorting out what authority, if any, Iraq's new interim government should have over the mainly American and British troops in Iraq. If sovereignty is to be real, as Mr. Blair insists it should be, operations undertaken by the forces must have the government's consent. On the other hand, the ability to maneuver quickly and freely is essential to the troops' effectiveness.
 With an election looming in the United States, some European powers are not particularly inclined to do Mr. Bush any favors in the Security Council negotiations. One or two may even view Mr. Blair's current difficulties with a certain relish and be reluctant to offer any gifts.
 But the prime minister has a powerful incentive to steer Iraq through its treacherous transition: his own political survival. His strong relationship with Mr. Brown, built over more than two decades, is well known. But so, too, is Mr. Brown's determination to become prime minister one day.
 Mr. Brown established one strong credential in recent years: Britain's successful economy, which, along with the absence of a strong opposition, had shored up Mr. Blair and the Labor Party. The chancellor has now added another credential: He is relatively untainted by Iraq. Could there be a change at the top? ''There are bound to be tensions between them,'' the first official said. ''But this has been a long marriage.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Blair needs stability in Iraq and has a strategy. Only America can carry it out. (Pool photograph by Kirsty Wigglesworth) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (91%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Photography ; Prisoners of War

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); GORDON BROWN (57%) Roger Cohen; Tony (Prime Min) Blair; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%) Iraq; Great Britain; Iraq; Abu Ghraib (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



363 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29; A True Champion Of Grand Plans And Tiny Details

LENGTH: 2544 words

HEADLINE: With the Zeal of an Athlete, Doctoroff Pursues Olympics

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS and MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Daniel L. Doctoroff has recorded a personal best time of 21 minutes and 3 seconds bicycling from his Upper West Side brownstone to City Hall. He has noted the 22 consecutive days he has not lost his temper, as well as the 615 plants, trees and shrubs that would be affected by his plans to redevelop the West Side of Manhattan.
 He makes sure that every document that comes from his office of deputy mayor uses the clean typeface Gill Sans, and that charts are perfectly aligned to the last decimal. All this, of course, has a deliberate purpose. 
 Mr. Doctoroff has harnessed his obsession with small details to create a blueprint for a sweeping legacy -- his and New York City's. 
 Ten years ago, Mr. Doctoroff, a multimillionaire Michigan native and former investment banker, gave birth to the city's Olympic bid -- now aimed at landing the 2012 Summer Games.
 Today, at age 45, Mr. Doctoroff has vaulted from that job to become one of the city's most powerful officials, bringing with him his Olympic-inspired vision to reshape the New York economy and physical landscape.
 Unelected, and still unknown to many New Yorkers, Mr. Doctoroff has nonetheless been granted extraordinary authority by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. He shaped the mayor's speech outlining the future of Lower Manhattan, and oversaw the rezoning of industrial Williamsburg for housing development and the development of a master plan for downtown Brooklyn. And it is Mr. Doctoroff whom Mr. Bloomberg has charged with reinventing a 50-block swath of Manhattan's West Side, transforming it from a collection of tenements and warehouses into the city's third-largest business district, complete with new skyscrapers and a sports stadium.
 With the mayor's complete confidence, he has immense ability to promote or derail projects on a moment's notice. Throughout his efforts, Mr. Doctoroff, whose formal title is deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, has relentlessly pushed his organizing principle: the plans for the Olympics -- a world class stadium, expanded subway lines, more hotels -- is simultaneously a catalyst for the city's remaking and revitalization.
 ''I don't think in any previous government, at least as far as I know, they ever had somebody who was a real banker, who knew how to put together things, who knew what drives the private sector economy,'' Mr. Bloomberg said of Mr. Doctoroff recently. ''He's got the attitude, 'I'm going to get it done. I'll find a way to do it.'''
 Mr. Doctoroff has drawn critics who bristle at what they call his arrogance, and who question his single-minded campaign for big projects. Some are suspicious of what they see as his dual loyalties -- the Olympics and the city's broader economic future.
 He has also attracted admirers, who have been impressed by the passionate sincerity of his beliefs. For them, he has brought a sense of vision that has been sorely lacking at City Hall for more than a decade.
 ''He doesn't act like a politician -- he is a salesman,'' said James Parrott, chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute and a former staff member in the administration of former Mayor David N. Dinkins. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Doctoroff takes his Olympic sales job on the road to Lausanne, Switzerland. There, the executive committee of the International Olympic Committee is expected to cut three cities from the nine remaining candidates, most likely narrowing the candidates to London, Paris, New York, Madrid, Rio de Janeiro and Moscow.
 The final I.O.C. vote is not until July 6, 2005, in Singapore. Mr. Doctoroff has already met many of the 125 voters, trying to engender support and trust through his warm, personable approach. He has declared he feels good about the city's chances.
 But there are still factors Mr. Doctoroff knows he can not manage, like the pervading anti-American sentiment in the I.O.C.
 ''The Olympics is more uncontrollable than anything I've ever done,'' he said. ''That fear of being out on a limb, sometimes pretty far without having control, it's there.''

A Dollar-a-Year Millionaire
 By his own account, Mr. Doctoroff made ''infinitely more money'' than he ever imagined he could as an investment banker for 17 years. He refuses to divulge his net worth because he said he and his wife, Alisa, do not even tell their own children, Jacob, 16, Ariel, 13 and Jenna 12. 
 On ethics filings, Mr. Doctoroff reported earning at least $5 million in 2001 before joining City Hall and matching Bloomberg's $1 a year salary. He gives away more than $1 million a year, much of it to Jewish causes.
 Wealthy ambitions were not a priority for him growing up as the oldest of four boys in suburban Detroit. His mother was a psychologist with a love of world politics and show tunes, and his father was a lawyer and Michigan judge, who bonded with Dan at Tigers games.
 While at Harvard, Mr. Doctoroff went to work with Robert Teeter, the political pollster, in Michigan. 
 Mr. Teeter said he noticed how even at that age, Mr. Doctoroff possessed the singular qualities of a successful person.
 ''They have a little smell of the future, a little sense of what the next year or two are going to bring that gives them an edge,'' he said.
 He began at the University of Chicago Law School and in the summer before he transferred to New York University (his wife got a marketing job in Manhattan), Mr. Doctoroff found his calling. At the Philadelphia law firm of Dechert, Price & Rhoads, Mr. Doctoroff was working on the legal aspects of the attempted complex hostile takeover of Getty Oil, when he realized he was more stimulated by finance, and its opportunities. He wanted to make a lot of money quickly, he said, to provide him the freedom to choose another path later. He checked the statistics first.
 At the N.Y.U. placement office he discovered the odds of making partner at a New York law firm were 30 to 1. ''I have a lot of confidence in myself,'' he said, ''but I'm not going to trust my fate to odds of 1 in 30.''
 He said he thus ''faked his way'' into an analyst's job at Lehman Brothers.
 Not long after being assigned to work on a deal involving the Texas billionaire Robert M. Bass, Mr. Doctoroff left Lehman Brothers to work full time investing Mr. Bass's money. It was high stakes, and he threw himself into it.
 As a partner in Oak Hill Capital, Mr. Doctoroff managed Bass investments totaling hundreds of millions of dollars in hotels, drug stores and real estate.
 A former colleague recalled that after Oak Hill hired a consulting firm to conduct a market analysis for a deal, Mr. Doctoroff quietly conducted his own research. When the consultants presented their findings, Mr. Doctoroff pointed out so many flaws that the firm was forced to redo its analysis for free.
 Many of Oak Hill's deals, like its investment in the $3 billion merger of CapStar Hotel Company and American General Hospitality Corporation in 1998, generated huge payouts for Mr. Doctoroff and his partners.
 Despite a few flops, the easygoing Midwesterner was becoming an aggressive Wall Streeter, at least in the eyes of some people who did business with him. When a Bass investment with a Florida homebuilder went awry, Mr. Doctoroff -- who had no initial involvement -- opened a brutal legal battle with his partners against the homebuilder to recover the money.
 ''They descended on this place with an army of attorneys, an army of staff, they used the biggest and most expensive hotels, cars, restaurants, the whole nine yards,'' said Thomas Tompkins, the homebuilder.

Grabbing an Idea
 John Monsky, the general counsel at Oak Hill, said Mr. Doctoroff first mentioned his Olympics epiphany during the summer of 1994.
 Mr. Doctoroff had just attended the World Cup soccer semifinal at Giants Stadium, where Italy defeated Bulgaria, and was struck by the spirit of the international community that filled the Meadowlands, he said.
 ''I took a very deep breath, because with Dan, when he grabs hold of an idea, he does not let go,'' Mr. Monsky said.
 With the help of a young temp, the two acquired the formal Olympic bid books from the 1992 Barcelona games, Atlanta's books before its 1996 games, and even examined New York's failed bid from 1977 to host the 1984 Games.
 When Mr. Doctoroff quickly agreed to pay $40,000 for a helicopter photographer to shoot possible competition sites in the city, Mr. Monsky said he knew the game was on.
 Over the years, Mr. Doctoroff made the rounds of New York political and business circles, although some leaders took longer than others to convince. Seth Abraham, then president of HBO Sports, said he declined to meet Mr. Doctoroff for three years.
 ''But Dan didn't give up,'' Mr. Abraham said. ''What I appreciated was his finesse.''
 Today, Mr. Abraham is on the board of NYC2012, the nonprofit organization Mr. Doctoroff founded and financed with $4 million of his own money to develop the Olympic bid. Bob Beamon, Mr. Doctoroff's Olympic muse, also serves on the board.
 Mr. Beamon, born in Jamaica, Queens, and the man who shattered the world record in the long jump at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, likened Mr. Doctoroff's drive to that of an athlete: ''He had a pipe dream. There were some who didn't believe or they thought he's crazy.''
 What once seemed to be overwhelming issues in staging a New York City Olympics -- security, transportation and political gridlock -- Mr. Doctoroff overcame with attention to details.
 On Nov. 3, 2002, the United States Olympic Committee chose New York over San Francisco to represent the nation. There were grumbles among some other United States cities that New York benefited from the ''sympathy factor'' after the Sept. 11 attack, and from the presence on the Olympic committee of Roland W. Betts, a New York City developer who worked with Mr. Doctoroff in rebuilding ground zero.
 The U.S.O.C. investigated and said it found no evidence that Mr. Betts had a conflict of interest.
 U.S.O.C. members said at the time that it was mostly Mr. Doctoroff's commanding leadership that convinced them. Speaking without notes and integrating a crisp PowerPoint presentation with humorous clips from New York film stars, he broke down the contents of New York's bid proposal.
 He explained the Olympic ''X plan,'' which 39 of the 40 venues along intersecting transportation axes of the city's rail and waterways with the Olympic Village in Queens at its center.
 He played up New York as a financial and communications center. He even allayed concerns about the weather, noting the 154 combined home games the Yankees and Mets had played in the summer. 
 ''Only four were rained out,'' he said.

Fun, and a Little Anger, Too
 Mr. Doctoroff's interest in city government was piqued during his experience with the bid. ''He was drawn to that, to the challenges of the public arena and what it was like,'' said his wife, Alisa Doctoroff.
 However, when Mr. Bloomberg's transition team raised the idea of Mr. Doctoroff's becoming deputy mayor for economic development, he declined twice.
 He was concerned about the time commitment, overwhelmed personally with the death of his mother and the discovery that his father had Lou Gehrig's disease.
 ''It was a heart-versus-head decision,'' Mr. Doctoroff recalled.
 He sought advice from his former mentor at Lehman Brothers, Peter Solomon. ''I told him it was a great opportunity to use the Olympics to harness the political will to move dozens of projects that some of us have been interested in for years,'' Mr. Solomon said. ''Of course, one of the challenges is that you're constantly balancing everybody's interests and your own interests.''
 Not everyone believes Mr. Doctoroff has achieved that balance. One prominent politician and businessman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Doctoroff's aggressiveness on some issues, like plans for the stadium on Manhattan's West Side, can make people uncomfortable. The stadium would be used by the New York Jets as well as the Olympics.
 When Mr. Doctoroff learned that a local economic planning board was close to voting against his stadium plan earlier this month, he and an associate working with him on New York's Olympic bid telephoned members to ask them not to oppose it. The board ended up postponing a vote.
 ''There are a lot of people who do business with Dan, who feel reluctant to express their opinions on this matter,'' the politician said.
 Mr. Doctoroff has a volatile facet to his personality that can be intimidating. That was demonstrated early one morning in March in front of City Hall, where he paced the flagstones, yelling angrily into a cellphone. He said that the outburst ended his latest streak of 34 days not losing his temper. (He has since boasted of the 22-day streak.)
 The forcefulness and conviction with which he pursues his far-reaching plans has drawn some comparisons to Robert Moses, the autocratic city planner.
 Mr. Doctoroff rejected the analogy as ludicrous, and said that economic progress in the city had been hobbled by a mindset that regarded development in any form as bad. He said the benefits of the West Side redevelopment plan would greatly outweigh the 141 homes and 1,600 jobs that would have to be displaced. ''We're not taking wonderful neighborhoods that were the foundation of New York and destroying them,'' he said.
 Mr. Doctoroff's West Side development plan for the Olympics has three main elements: the stadium, expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and the extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 11th Avenue and 34th Street. 
 In addition, the Bloomberg administration wants to rezone a swath between 27th and 43 Streets to encourage development of 28 million square feet of office space and 12,000 apartments over the next 30 years.
 On March 25, Mr. Doctoroff won a major victory when Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Bloomberg and New York Jets executives gathered under the glare of floodlights at the Javits Center to announce their support for the $2.8 billion West Side redevelopment project. The Jets will kick in $800 million.
 Critics from some development organizations say Mr. Doctoroff is ignoring lower- to middle-income people and jobs with his plans. Vocal opponents from neighborhood coalitions to the theater district want the Olympic stadium to be built in Queens, even though the Jets do not want that. 
 And then there is the Cablevision empire situated quietly, for now, in Madison Square Garden overlooking the redevelopment project, which might, presumably, be looking out for its own interests. ''Hopefully, they will see that what we're trying to do is a good thing for everybody,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''If not, we'll deal with it.''
 If New York is not awarded the Olympics next July, Mr. Doctoroff says that the convention center expansion and subway extension should continue. ''Hopefully, that project will be irrevocable at that point,'' he said.
 Where will Mr. Doctoroff's own ambitions lead him? He dismisses talk of political ambitions with a scrunched ''yeah, right'' face and a full endorsement of his boss's re-election next fall.
 ''If, God help us and we don't win,'' Mr. Doctoroff said of the Olympics, ''and the mayor wins -- which I believe will happen -- I could easily envision staying around as long as I'm still having fun for a while.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff at the start of the Bike New York Tour earlier this month. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 29)
 Mr. Doctoroff, at the Olympic Media Summit on Friday, has an Olympic-inspired vision to reshape New York's landscape. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CYCLING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); ZONING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%) Stadiums and Arenas; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Biographical Information; Area Planning and Renewal; Olympic Games (2012); Summer Games (Olympics)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Liz Robbins; Mike Mcintire; Daniel L (Deputy Mayor) Doctoroff; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



364 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15; SOAPBOX

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: For Graduates, Getting a Job Is Work

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. WHITE. 
Richard L. White is director of career services at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.

 BODY:
MEMBERS of the class of 2004 will soon don their caps and gowns. They will march into a vastly different world than they faced at the beginning of college careers in the fall of 2000.
 Bill Clinton was in the final year of his presidency, having weathered the Monica Lewinsky scandal and impeachment. The nation was focused on the Bush-Gore race and its bizarre outcome. We had survived the Y2K hype early in the year, and the nation and the world were enjoying relative peace. 
 Despite the collapse of the dot-coms in the late 90's, the economy in 2000 was prosperous, the job market was strong, graduating seniors were getting multiple offers, and the newly arrived first-year students and their fellow citizens were optimistic about the future.
 What a difference four years make. The world was turned upside down Sept. 11, 2001, and with it, many of the hopes, expectations, dreams and career paths of the Class of 2004. 
 They watched their graduating friends in 2002 and 2003 struggle with anxiety, uncertainty, procrastination and fear in terms of their career choices and future direction. 
 They witnessed a tumbling economy and job market, the increased outsourcing and ''off-shoring'' of jobs, tightened security at home, a politically polarized electorate, international isolation, and wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and against terror. So many reasons for pessimism.
 There are some glimmers of good news in all the gloom that is the evening news, the newspaper headlines and the daily business reports.
 In March, more than 300,000 new jobs were created nationally, challenging the notion that our country was bogged down in a ''jobless recovery.'' 
 In a recent ''Job Outlook'' survey, the National Association of Colleges and Employers reported that 11 percent of employers expected to hire more college graduates than last year. And at Rutgers, we expect 175 employers at our New Jersey Collegiate Career Day on May 26, up from only 145 a year ago.
 There is one more positive factor. Unlike their recent predecessors, 2004's seniors generally seem to ''get it.'' They are more realistic and focused. With help from college career centers, they have recalibrated their and their parents' expectations. They have started the job search earlier. 
 At Rutgers Career Services, we have seen a sharp increase in career counseling appointments and resume critiques, and visits to our Web site will set a yearly record -- more than half a million.
 Our basic message to seniors goes like this: Get an early start. Be flexible in terms of location and type of work. Consider part-time or even volunteer work to get your foot in the door. Maintain the proper balance between ''high tech'' and ''high touch'' in your job search. And, perhaps most important, network like crazy -- with relatives, alumni, neighbors, parents of friends, professors and local merchants. Ask them how they got their jobs, what they like and dislike about their jobs and who else you can contact.''
 Most seniors seem to have accepted this message and are acting upon it. They understand that it will take a lot of work to get work, but they are rolling up their sleeves.
 In the spring of 2002, I was asked to grade the job market. I gave it a C. It slipped a little more last year, but now it is back to a C+.
 We're still a long way from the A job market of the late 90's, but I believe that most members of Class of 2004 will land solidly on their feet, as they toss their caps and their dreams into the air.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); OUTSOURCING (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); OFFSHORING (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (60%) Labor

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%) Richard L White

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



365 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13; Op-Chart

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: an Update

BYLINE: By ADRIANA LINS de ALBUQUERQUE, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Adriana Albuquerque and Michael OHanlon are, respectively, senior research assistant and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
After all the bad news from Iraq in recent weeks -- the abysmal mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners by American troops, the urban combat in Falluja and Karbala, new polls from Gallup and other organizations showing declining numbers of Iraqis who think their country was better off than before the war, and the fact that there have been more American fatalities since April 1 than there were in last year's invasion itself -- is there anything hopeful to latch onto?
 On the security front, a few silver linings can be found. Since our last chart for this page three months ago, there has been a modest decline in crime rates in Baghdad. Kurdistan in the north is relatively peaceful, as is the British sector near Basra in the south (no British soldiers have been killed in Iraq since February). But central Iraq is still very troubled, and President Bush went too far on April 13 when he said that ''most of Iraq is relatively stable.'' 
 The economic situation is somewhat better. President Bush may have again been too optimistic in his May 1 radio address when he said that life in Iraq is now ''a world away'' from what it was under the Saddam Hussein regime. But the material conditions for Iraqis have generally been restored at least to 2002 levels -- except for the all-important unemployment rate, which remains far too high.
 While the overall situation is disconcerting, there is still hope -- especially if the standard for success is defined realistically as an absence of civil war, a gradually improving economy, and slowly declining rates of political and criminal violence. The scheduled transfer of sovereignty to an Iraqi caretaker government on June 30 may at least begin to defuse the growing anti-American anger that is helping fuel the insurgency. And most American assistance, tied up in bureaucratic red tape until now, should begin to jump-start Iraq's economy in the coming months, with a likely beneficial effect on security as well.


GRAPHIC: ChartSECURITY INDICATORSU.S./Other Foreign Troops (thousands)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 150/23AUGUST: 139/22DECEMBER: 122/24.5APRIL: 137/25Estimated Number of InsurgentsAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON):AUGUST: 5,000DECEMBER: 3,000-5,000APRIL: 5,000Estimated Number of Foreign Fighters/JihadistsAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 50AUGUST: 200DECEMBER: 400APRIL: 500U.S. Troop FatalitiesAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 22AUGUST: 36DECEMBER: 40APRIL: 131Other Foreign Troop FatalitiesAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 2AUGUST: 7DECEMBER: 9APRIL: 5Foreign Civilian FatalitiesAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 25DECEMBER: 0APRIL: 13U.S. Helicopters Downed by EnemyAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 0DECEMBER: 2APRIL: 1Insurgent Attacks on Oil AssetsAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 2AUGUST: 3DECEMBER: 9APRIL: 4Insurgents Detained/KilledAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 1,000AUGUST: 1,000DECEMBER: 1,000APRIL: 2,000Iraqi Noncombatant FatalitiesAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 250AUGUST: 40DECEMBER: 115APRIL: 400Iraqi Police Officers Trained to Date (as percentage of goal
includes partial training)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 1DECEMBER: 5APRIL: 19Iraqi Soldiers Trained to Date (as percentage of goal)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 0DECEMBER: 1APRIL: 6Iraqi Security Personnel Trained to Date (all others
as percentage of goal)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 2DECEMBER: 70APRIL: 90ECONOMIC AND QUALITY OF LIFE INDICATORSUnemployment Rate (percentage)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 60AUGUST: 55DECEMBER: 45APRIL: 45Oil Exports (millions of barrels/day
prewar rate: 2.8-3.0mb/d)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0.1AUGUST: 1.5DECEMBER: 2.3APRIL: 2.4Motor Fuel Availability (as percentage of estimated requirement)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 20AUGUST: 60DECEMBER: 60APRIL: 95Heating/Cooking Fuel Availability (as percentage of requirement)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 25AUGUST: 55DECEMBER: 85APRIL: 80Electricity (in gigawatts
prewar: 4.4)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 3.0AUGUST: 3.3DECEMBER: 3.4APRIL: 3.8Telephone Service (as percentage of prewar level)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 20AUGUST: 100DECEMBER: 110APRIL: 130Schools Needing RepairAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 12,000AUGUST: 11,300DECEMBER: 10,000APRIL: 9,500U.S. Aid Disbursed, Cumulative (billions of dollars
 total amount available is roughly $20 billion)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0.1AUGUST: 0.3DECEMBER: 0.9APRIL: 1.5Health Care Clinics Renovated, Cumulative (out of 600)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 0DECEMBER: 10APRIL: 52Small Loans Disbursed, Cumulative (for population of 25 million)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 100DECEMBER: 1,000APRIL: 2,000Judges Vetted, CumulativeAPRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON): 0AUGUST: 100DECEMBER: 300APRIL: 860IRAQI MORALE AND VIEWS OF THE U.S.Iraqis Feeling Better Off Since War (percentage)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON):AUGUST: 35DECEMBER: 55APRIL: 40Iraqis Wanting U.S. Forces To Stay (percentage)APRIL 2003 (APRIL 10 ON):AUGUST: 70DECEMBER: 70APRIL: 35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); POLITICS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); TRENDS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TERRORISM (68%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Crime and Criminals; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Adriana Lins De Albuquerque; Michael O'Hanlon; Amy Unikewicz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



366 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Hope for Trade Fairness

 BODY:
Suddenly, there is a glimmer of hope that the global trading system might actually be made fairer. The United States and the European Union -- the world's economic superpowers -- seem increasingly open to negotiations on their agricultural subsidies, which buy domestic political support but hurt farmers in the world's poorest nations. 
The question is whether political leaders in Washington and Brussels are truly committed to taming powerful farm lobbies that have grown accustomed to life on the dole.
 There are some good signs. Pascal Lamy, the European Union trade negotiator, is offering to negotiate an end to direct farm export subsidies. Though only a sliver of the union's overall $50 billion package of annual farm payments, these direct subsidies are the most egregious trade-distorting payments. They are the reason Europe's sugar farmers can defy economics and be the world's leading exporters despite their high costs. 
 Brazil's recent triumph in challenging the legality of America's cotton subsidies has also brightened prospects for a deal. Robert Zoellick, Mr. Lamy's American counterpart, deserves credit for working assiduously since January to resurrect the trade talks. His determination is particularly commendable given the protectionist mood on Capitol Hill in an election year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LOBBYING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COTTON FARMING (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%) Agriculture; Editorials; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Farmers; Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (88%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (74%) Pascal Lamy; Robert B (Trade Rep) Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BRAZIL (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



367 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2322 words

HEADLINE: Summer Towns Become Homes For All Seasons

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: North Salem 

 BODY:
AFTER Donna Romeo moved here to the shore of Peach Lake two years ago, she kept being reminded of a movie she had always loved. 
 ''Dirty Dancing.'' Everything about her new neighborhood made her feel as if she had landed inside one of those summer-camplike vacations that so many New Yorkers used to take upstate in the 1960's.
 Here she was, in a summertime haunt peopled with kindly, prim residents who seemed to share the wholesome attitudes of a midcentury sitcom. There were even dances at the local meeting hall. But alas, Ms. Romeo said, there was no suave, sexy dance instructor like Patrick Swayze to sweep her off her feet. 
 ''It's nostalgic,'' she said one afternoon, as she watched ducks dive for lunch in the canal just off her back porch. Two kayaks lay on the shore in the cool spring sunshine.
 When she bought her home in Pietsch Gardens in 2002, she joined the ranks of those who are becoming full-time residents of former summertime hangouts. Homes are still relatively affordable here, and people are willing to spend an hour and a half commuting to New York City, if they can come home to acres of trees and sunsets that burnish the lake.
 Ms. Romeo's two-story bungalow, which sits shoulder to shoulder with other homes along the lake, was more like a shack when she bought it, she said. But she grew up in North Salem, and the lure of moving permanently into this seasonal enclave became irresistible.
 ''Where else can you find a house for 88 grand?'' she said. ''My father looked at it and was like, 'Are you kidding?' I said, 'I have a vision.' Little by little, in the last two years, houses are being fixed up.''
 Peach Lake is among the farthest-flung towns in the New York metropolitan region to transform from vacation destination into year-round community. 
 Older Westchester suburbs, now solidly in New York's commuter belt, began life the same way, said Elizabeth Fuller, a librarian at the Westchester County Historical Society. From Larchmont to Peekskill to Yorktown, they started as campgrounds, waterfront resorts and getaways for the middle class.
 Now the county's summer towns ''are either gone, or they're turning into permanent housing,'' Ms. Fuller said. ''The houses have been added onto and heat put into them.''
 The change has been driven by population explosion, increased development, higher property values and, not incidentally, commuting times that have stretched like saltwater taffy.
 And as more people have settled on land that was once just a perch, environmentalists and residents have increasingly expressed concern about the damage that development and full-time populations are doing to the pristine waterfronts and pastoral scenes that lured them in the first place.
 The town of North Salem sits on the northern edge of Westchester, 46 miles from Grand Central Terminal, and Peach Lake is on the north side of town, with parts spilling into Putnam County. Interstate 284 and Metro-North Railroad link the area to New York City, and it is a six-mile drive to the nearest supermarket, residents say.
 Remoteness delayed the housing surge here but could not prevent it.
 About 10 percent of North Salem's nearly 2,000 houses remain rentals or vacation homes, according to 2000 United States census data. That is high for heavily populated Westchester; in nearly all other census tracts in the county, fewer than 1 percent of the homes are seasonal or vacational. Many census tracts do not have any such homes.
 Although a core group of farmers and commuters have long lived year-round in parts of North Salem, locals say that when it comes to Peach Lake, as many as 90 percent of residents once arrived on Memorial Day and left on Labor Day. Some traveled here from New York City; others had permanent homes just over the Connecticut border or in southern Westchester.
 Over the decade ending in 2000, average home values here rose 25 percent, to $319,700 from $258,000, according to census data. 
 The town's sprawling farmhouses and Victorians have always been pricey, but only in recent years have the cheaper bungalows by Peach Lake started shooting up in value, residents said.
 Now, when people drive to the 500-home community of Peach Lake for the summer, they see change. New neighbors with more money. Renovations. Second floors. The occasional BMW.
 Jack Waltzer, a Peach Lake resident and president of the Vail's Grove neighborhood co-op board, put it this way: ''Like Topsy, it just grew.''

Quest for a Getaway
 As the old summer towns circling New York extend their year-round roots, more and more Americans are looking for seasonal idylls, according to federal housing data. The number of people who own a seasonal recreational home has grown by nearly 200,000 in the last 16 years, reaching 1,974,000 in 2001, from an estimated 1,775,000 in 1985.
 In the New York metropolitan region, the limited housing supply and climbing prices have already pushed many bargain-hunting buyers to act. Whether primary homes are in Upper Manhattan, the other boroughs or the remote exurbs, vacation homes must be sought even farther afield.
 So while some are scouring Woodstock, N.Y., and the back roads of Putnam County for a vacation cottage, others with less disposable income are putting down permanent roots in towns like North Salem, or Milford, Conn., or in the eastern North Shore hamlets of Long Island. These former summer towns, one or two hours from the city, are littered with tiny, often flimsy homes, but they also offer comparatively cheap prices and nature at the back door.
 ''Land values in waterfront communities have escalated dramatically, particularly in the last couple of decades,'' said Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association. ''It just became economically reasonable to winterize those houses and live there year-round.''
 Real-estate agents from across the region say most of the new residents are young families buying their first homes or the elderly buying their last. Thomas Cooke, an associate professor of geography at the University of Connecticut, said the pattern is for many part-timers to become full-timers as they age.
 ''Some of that is just people choosing to retire,'' Professor Cooke said. ''Housing prices are up and they're taking their equity, fixing their summer cottages and choosing to live there.''
 A handful of iconic getaways have resisted the trend. Fire Island, for instance, is rugged and inaccessible enough to have retained its summertime flavor, and though the Hamptons now hum all year, many of the millionaires' estates are still shuttered for the winter. 
 But Ms. Kamer said the solidly middle-class summer communities, like Peach Lake, are now too expensive and too accessible to retain their May-to-September character.
 ''I think it's kind of sad,'' Ms. Kamer said. ''These part-time summertime locations will probably disappear in the next 5 to 10 years.''
 Oozing ever farther from New York, such communities are like rings on a pond, said Susan Fainstein, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, remembering places like Coney Island, the Rockaways, Yonkers, Hoboken or Asbury Park as once-distant havens.
 ''It's a very old story in fact,'' she said. ''It's happening all over the country, actually.''

Change of Seasons
 One sunny afternoon, Mr. Waltzer, the Vail's Grove co-op president, looked out over Peach Lake, surveying the signs of old and new along its shores.
 To his left were clusters of old cottages and older bungalows, yet-to-be-remodeled homes built with cheap siding and cheaper insulation. To his right, way in the distance, were newer and grander homes with elaborate decks, cathedral ceilings and walls thick enough for any season.
 And here on the deck of the Vail's Grove community center stood Mr. Waltzer, 71, wearing a Korea-Vietnam Veteran baseball cap and a T-shirt that declared ''Our Home, Our Lake, Our Future.'' 
 In 1996, he and his wife bought a lakeside home, a one-story cottage that they planned to use in the summers. But with each passing year, and each renovation, Mr. Waltzer said, the couple spent less time at their two-bedroom apartment in White Plains and more time at the lake.
 In general, the transformation has happened pretty much like that.
 The summer communities of North Salem began as seasonal campsites around the turn of the century, according to residents and local histories. A few North Salem farming families owned the land around Peach Lake. Every year, people rented plots for the summer, spending $2 or $3 for the right to set up a tent and hunt and fish throughout the season.
 Property lines were - and still are -- based on rough topography, with home sites ending at certain rocks or trees, said Robert Becker, a lawyer who says he has guided land development in North Salem for more than 30 years.
 ''As time went on,'' Mr. Becker said, ''people decided it was too cold in the pup tent, or whatever the hell they put up. They set up one-room shacks, then two rooms, then houses or cottages.''
 Owners and residents built a baseball field and tennis courts, and began running power and sewer lines to the cottages. Touring big bands played at weekend dances during the summers. Residents' photographs from the 1950's show women in long skirts strolling the dirt roads, and swarms of bare-chested children leaping into the lake. 
 ''We had an old pavilion, and kids could come in and get an ice cream cone or a hamburger,'' said Fred Witte, a resident who first visited the lake in the mid-1940's. ''They could listen to a jukebox, hang out, shoot the breeze.''
 The communities coordinated movie nights and fireworks, and ''covered-dish suppers'' with endless casseroles of beans and hamburger.
 Everyone left after Labor Day, and in October, the water system was shut off for the winter.
 In 1973, the residents of Vail's Grove formed a co-operative and bought 83 acres of lakefront land for $650,000, Mr. Becker said. The residents of nearby lakeside communities followed suit, and today, the land around Peach Lake comprises three co-ops on the south shore and a stretch of private lots on the north.
 In recent years, residents of North Salem and Peach Lake say, young families and retirees have been arriving in equal numbers. Census figures show that racial makeup has changed little in a decade. In 1990, 98 percent of residents were white; in 2000, 95 percent were white.
 What has changed are the sizes and prices of homes. Both keep getting larger and larger.
 Mr. Waltzer can attest to that. He bought his one-story lakefront bungalow for $140,000 in 1996, and promptly poured at least $160,000 into it, adding a second story, remodeling the kitchen and installing new windows. Today, with about one home flipping every two months or so, Mr. Waltzer figures he could sell the place for $500,000.
 He said that he could, not that he would. Mr. Waltzer is retired, and has grown to like volunteering and his daily rounds to test the water quality. As for his wife, he said, ''You couldn't get her out of here with dynamite.''

What Summer Brings
 In the midst of construction and moving trucks, indelible traces of Peach Lake's life as a summer community linger, like water stains on wood. Just take a walk over to the Pietsch Gardens Co-op Office and see.
 The office was locked and dark one weekday afternoon this spring (still the off-season), but a schedule tacked to a bulletin board augurs a bustling summer. 
 A dance on July 3 to inaugurate the season, one on Sept. 4 to wrap it up, and in between, brunches, sand-castle contests, steak nights and talent shows.
 People drop their 16-foot sailboats into the water or go water-skiing around the lake, and residents like Mr. Waltzer set out temporary plastic docks. 
 The few part-timers trek back to the lake and air out their stale cottages. People meet for bingo and ice cream, and arts and crafts.
 ''You sure look forward to this weather,'' said Don Vollrath, as he hefted a golf bag into his station wagon.
 He looked up and down the narrow lane, at the still-shuttered houses, considering the summer as if he were a farmer watching a cloud on the horizon. 
 ''All the spots get taken up, and there are kids running around like crazy,'' said Mr. Vollrath, who has lived here since 1998. ''Memorial Day to Labor Day, it was right on schedule. They party out here. They still have the opening-day barbecue, and the closing-day barbecue. People still pack up and go.''
 This atmosphere and Peach Lake's relative proximity to Long Island were enough to draw a couple of Syosset residents, Laura and David Krieg, to buy a second home here. Their place, airy and grand with views of the lake, makes a perfect retreat, Ms. Krieg said in a telephone interview. ''We just happened to fall in love with it,'' she said.
 But residents like Ms. Romeo, who remembers the ambience captured in ''Dirty Dancing,'' see troubling signs that all the development threatens the environment around the lake, which is part of New York City's watershed.
 Most lakeside homes have septic systems, and Ms. Romeo says the year-round drainage has contaminated Peach Lake, causing algae and thick weeds to strangle it.
 A consultant is studying the lake and the septic system, and residents say they expect that sewer lines will soon be installed.
 People complain that the summer now jostles their quiet lives, with boisterous part-timers or visitors arriving for vacations.
 And there are continual grumbles about the growing streams of traffic on Titicus Road.
 To older residents like Mr. Witte, the transformation of Peach Lake is notable not for what it brought, but for what is missing. One afternoon, he sat in the community center's empty meeting hall, telling the story of how he moved here, came back to retire, and watched the area change.
 ''They use it as a bedroom, and that's it,'' Mr. Witte said of newcomers. ''Years ago, I knew everybody. Now I hardly know anyone. It's hard to get a group together.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A fisherman on Peach Lake, which is in Westchester and Putnam Counties about 50 miles from Manhattan. The land around the lake used to have tent sites for summertime visitors. The tents gave way to cottages, below, and many of those have been renovated into even larger homes, like that of Jack Waltzer, bottom. Mr. Waltzer, 71, and his wife are among those who have made Peach Lake their permanent place. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
Jack Waltzer and his wife, Ronnie, working in their yard on Peach Lake, top. Above, bungalows on an inlet that leads to the lake. Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, said such solidly middle-class summer communities are now too expensive and too accessible to retain their May-to-September character. ''I think it's kind of sad,'' she said. ''These part-time summertime locations will probably disappear in the next 5 to 10 years.''
 The summer communities of North Salem began as seasonal campsites around the turn of the century. Some people have long lived year-round in parts of North Salem, but locals say that most Peach Lake residents once arrived on Memorial Day and left on Labor Day. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); DANCE (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HISTORY (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: PATRICK SWAYZE (73%) Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Salem (NY); Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



368 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; Commercial Property/Manhattan

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: How a Law Firm's Downtown Lease Came Together

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
WHEN the partners of the venerable law firm of Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft voted last September to stay in Lower Manhattan rather than move to Midtown, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki were so delighted that they called a news conference to praise the firm's commitment to the battered downtown area.
 Then came the hard work.
 Moving the firm from its old quarters at 100 and 125 Maiden Lane to One World Financial Center required a complex three-way negotiation that delayed the closing until the middle of March, according to Mitchell S. Steir, the chairman of Studley, a brokerage company that has traditionally specialized in representing tenants.
 The talks included the law firm; Brookfield Financial Properties, which operates the World Financial Center; and Lehman Brothers, the investment banking company that moved its operations to Midtown after the attack of Sept. 11, despite having leased 700,000 square feet of expansion space in One World Financial Center in 2000. 
 From the landlord's point of view, the talks were even more convoluted, said Dennis Friedrich, president of Brookfield's United States operations. ''In the background we were dealing with four other groups dealing with things like expansion, communications and heating and cooling,'' he said. ''I have never been in a seven-way negotiation before.''
 Further complicating the situation was that Brookfield had purchased 1 million square feet of condominium space at Three World Financial Center in 2002 that had previously been owned by Lehman Brothers, according to Mr. Steir.
 That meant that there were two big blocks of space available at the financial center when there was already an abundance of space available in the downtown area and a paucity of prospective tenants.
 The Cadwalader firm owned the 300,000-square-foot building at 100 Maiden Lane and was leasing space at 125 Maiden and was looking to consolidate in one place. Mr. Steir said the firm considered moving to Midtown, as so many other law firms have, following financial industry clients that have moved uptown from their traditional location near Wall Street. 
 Rents in Midtown are 25 to 35 percent higher than downtown, according to brokers, but many firms have accepted the higher costs to be in physical proximity to their biggest clients. Law firms, which seem to prosper in good times and bad, have been among the largest leasers of Manhattan office space in recent years.
 IN addition to facing the Midtown-downtown decision, Mr. Steir said, the approximately 100 partners at Cadwalader also considered establishing satellite offices in Westchester and Fairfield Counties.
 In the end, the partners voted to stay in Lower Manhattan, where the firm has been operating since 1792. There was a handshake agreement to occupy 460,000 square feet at One World Financial Center, but nothing close to a signed lease. The Midtown alternative had been the new Times Square Tower between 42nd and 41st Streets and Seventh Avenue and Broadway.
 Partly behind the agreement to move, Mr. Steir, said was a desire within the firm to consolidate in one location to reduce operating costs and to reduce intraoffice tensions.
 ''It is difficult to manage a law firm with two principal locations,'' said Mr. Steir, whose company has specialized in representing law firms. In addition to higher costs because of duplicated services, having ''two locations unintentionally creates a class system,'' he said. ''Everybody wants to be in the A building.''
 The firm wanted some of the space Lehman had leased at the World Financial Center building, but its 20-year lease stood in the way. Lehman was willing to sublease the space, but Mr. Steir said he advised Cadwalader that a direct lease with the landlord would be more desirable.
 ''We did not want to be subordinated to anyone else,'' he said. ''We wanted to negotiate directly with the landlord we were going to be living with for the next 20 years.''
 That would involve persuading Brookfield to replace Lehman, a financial powerhouse, with a law firm that, its bloodlines notwithstanding, has assets that go home every night. And since Lehman had signed its lease in 2000, at the top of the market, it would also involve lower rents, since the market had softened considerably by fall, 2003.
 According to reports by commercial brokers, rents for Class A direct space downtown had fallen from an average of about $50 a square foot in 2000 to a little over $40 a square foot in 2003.
 In addition, Brookfield had the space at Three World Financial Center that it was trying to market as well. 
 BUT Cadwalader was in a strong negotiating position, Mr. Steir said. For starters, it was willing to move into space across West Street from the World Trade Center site. By selling its old headquarters at 100 Maiden Lane, it could also take advantage of a market in which investors, attracted by low interest rates and viewing property investments as an attractive alternative to the stock market, were paying high prices for buildings despite the soft leasing market. 
 ''They were able to capitalize on the frothy sales market at a time when the leasing market was depressed,'' Mr. Steir said. The building was sold for $57 million to Lalezarian Developers, which plans to convert the 300,000-square-foot structure into a 400-unit residential property.
 In ordinary circumstances a landlord would have liked to collect rent on the space at One World Financial Center, while trying to market the space at No. Three, Mr. Steir said. But because the space at One was available for sublease, it would be typically offered at a discount to space being offered directly by the owner.
 ''Lehman would always underprice the space at One, so as long as space at One was available, Three would never lease,'' Mr. Steir said. In addition, he said the space at One was more desirable because it was on higher floors, while the space at Three was in the base of the building.
 Because Lehman paid to be released from its lease obligation, Brookfield did not come out worse economically despite the lower rents prevailing in the market, Mr. Friedrich said. And he said the Cadwalader lease had the advantage of removing a big block of sublease space that was hanging over the market. ''The only space available in the World Financial Center is the block at Tower Three that we are offering directly,'' he said.
 Officials of Cadwalader have said they plan to increase the size of the firm to 750 lawyers eventually from 400 today and increase the size of its administrative staff, which currently numbers about 400.
 That meant that expansion space had to be part of the deal. ''They needed a Class A location that met their current needs and could accommodate growth over the next 20 years with additional space,'' Mr. Steir said. ''It was important to get this, because if they moved, they did not want to do it again.''
 He said the firm has the option to rent up to another 400,000 square feet in the building over the term of the lease as its need increases.
 Mr. Friedrich said a building like One World Financial Center, which has multiple tenants, can accommodate an expansion plan better than one with just a few large tenants. ''It is easier to do it as leases roll over,'' he said.
 Mr. Steir said Cadwalader is currently taking control of the spaces in One World Financial Center and preparing to build the offices and other facilities needed to operate its practice. The firm expects to move into the building in early 2005, almost a year and a half after the news conference.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitchell S. Steir of Studley helped to orchestrate the planned move of Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft. (Photo by Matt Moyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) Relocation of Business

COMPANY: CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (95%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



369 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Backers of Gay Marriage Ban Find Tepid Response in Pews

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Just four months after an alliance of conservative Christians was threatening a churchgoer revolt unless President Bush championed an amendment banning same-sex marriage, members say they have been surprised and disappointed by what they call a tepid response from the pews.
 Most of the groups supporting the proposed federal constitutional amendment concede that it appears all but dead in Congress for this election year.
 As Massachusetts prepares to become the first state in the nation to allow same-sex marriage on Monday, several high-profile conservatives say they are now pinning their hopes mainly on reaction to events there, betting that scenes of gay weddings in Provincetown may set off a public outcry.
 In a last effort to publicize their cause before the impending wave of same-sex marriages, conservative Christian groups are organizing an emergency telecast to churches around the country, bringing African-American clergy members to Washington to lobby the Congressional Black Caucus, and sending members of a group for people who say they are formerly gay to make the rounds of Capitol Hill as well.
 Still, the opponents of gay marriage say they are puzzling over why such a volatile cultural issue is not spurring more rank-and-file conservative Christians to rise up in support of the amendment. They are especially frustrated, they say, because opinion polls show that a large majority of voters oppose gay marriage. 
 ''Our side is basically asleep right now,'' Matt Daniels, founder of the Alliance for Marriage, which helped draft the proposed amendment, said in an interview last week.
 The Rev. Louis P. Sheldon, chairman of the Traditional Values Coalition, said: ''I don't see any traction. The calls aren't coming in and I am not sure why.''
 Some conservatives warn that the Christian leaders rallying behind the amendment may now face a loss of credibility. Their influence with evangelical believers is a subject of keen interest in Washington, in part because the Bush campaign has made ensuring their turnout at the polls a top priority. 
 ''The danger from the beginning was that if you make your stand on the amendment and you don't win, then you may have undercut your position,'' said Richard Lessner, the executive director of the American Conservative Union and a former official of the Family Research Council, a Christian conservative group. ''They have staked so much on it, they have put all these eggs in one basket and now they are going to lose.'' 
 Gay rights groups argue that social conservatives in Washington overestimated the level of anxiety about gay marriage among their supporters. ''Other issues are far more important to most Americans, including evangelicals -- issues like the economy, jobs, health care, the war in Iraq,'' said Matt Foreman, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.
 The amendment's backers contend that the reason people are not responding more vocally is that many grass-roots conservatives do not yet understand how same-sex marriages affect them personally. Although gay groups argue that same-sex marriages involve only the couple marrying, many Christian conservative leaders argue that recognizing such marriages will undermine cultural support for traditional families.
 The amendment's backers say that they always knew approval by Congress would be difficult, but that they had expected to get far enough that every candidate in the country would have to take a position on it in the fall. But although the amendment is bogged down, some opponents of same-sex marriage say they see evidence of support for their cause at the state level. 
 Some noted that Ohio, a traditional swing state, recently passed a law blocking not only same-sex marriage but civil unions. And five states that are considered reliably conservative -- Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Utah -- have put state constitutional amendments banning gay marriage on the November ballot.
 ''The thing that we keep focusing on is, there is no place that people have voted for same-sex marriage,'' said Gary Bauer, a social conservative who unsuccessfully sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2000. Mr. Bauer, the founder of the organization American Values, noted that it was a court that ordered Massachusetts to recognize same-sex marriage.
 Conservatives are also trying to put state constitutional amendments on the ballot in several states that are considered pivotal swing states in the presidential election: Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oregon, North Carolina and Arkansas. Missouri's Legislature voted Friday to add a ballot measure, too. The ballot questions could help motivate traditionalists to go to the polls, which would be a boon for President Bush and lower-level conservative candidates.
 Cheryl Jacques, president of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group, called the ballot initiatives a political stunt, which she said was ''all about the president energizing his base and dividing and conquering in this election,'' adding, ''Gay and lesbian people are just being used as pawns.''
 But Mr. Bauer said that if conservative candidates receive a boost, it will not be by design. ''It wasn't conservative judges on the Massachusetts Supreme Court that forced this issue; it wasn't a pro-Bush mayor of San Francisco who forced the issue,'' he said. ''We didn't pick the timing. The gay rights movement picked the timing. Obviously our side is going to respond, and it happens to be an election year.''
 Although the House Judiciary Committee held hearings on the federal marriage amendment last week, staff members said the committee was unlikely to have time to vote on a bill by the end of the year. And several prominent social conservatives said Republican leaders of the House had indicated that they do not want to bring the measure up for a vote unless it appears likely to pass the Senate, which is more moderate. 
 Both conservatives and gay rights groups say there is not enough support to approve the amendment, although that might change if its text were somehow revised.
 In an interview, Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican who supports the amendment, put the chances that the Senate might try to bring it up for a vote at ''better than 50-50.'' 
 ''I think people are in shock,'' Senator Cornyn said. ''I think people are still having a hard time believing this is real. One of the most common responses I hear is, 'This is just in Massachusetts, why does it concern us in other states?' '' 
 Like most of the amendment's supporters, Senator Cornyn is betting that the spread of Massachusetts marriage licenses will drive the issue home. ''When people understand that there are same-sex couples that will get married under Massachusetts law and then move to other states and demand that those marriages are recognized by the laws of other states, that is when people will understand this,'' he said.
 But Mr. Foreman of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force suggested that watching gay weddings in Massachusetts would make people more accepting, not less. 
 ''The minute you pose the question to somebody, 'How will this hurt you?,' they never have an answer,'' he said. ''As this discussion has gone on and people have seen these images of regular people thrilled to be married, it has dispelled the myth and a lot of the fear around same-sex marriage.''
 Not that the opponents of gay marriage are giving up on the amendment. Richard Land, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, said the amendment's supporters wanted votes in Congress so they could work to replace anyone who voted against it. 
 For months, Dr. Land has told President Bush's political adviser Karl Rove and members of Congress that no issue has upset ordinary evangelical Christians as much as the threat of gay marriage. Last week he stood by that view, but he acknowledged that parishioners around the country might not have voiced their opinions to elected officials as loudly as he had expected.
 ''We need to do a better job of educating our base,'' Dr. Land said, ''although I don't think we can do better than Massachusetts is going to do for us.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (95%); RELIGION (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); IRAQ WAR (63%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Election Issues; Christians and Christianity; Public Opinion; Marriages

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; David D Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



370 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 6; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Election-Year Shuffle On the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
FEW proposals are more popular than raising the minimum wage. Public opinion polls are clear on this point. But what voters want rarely translates into a higher minimum, even though Congress does pay extra attention in presidential election years. 
 That happened in 2000, and it's happening again. The Republicans are dead set against raising the minimum wage. But in presidential election years they give the appearance of favoring an increase. And, once in a while, they even join the Democrats in approving one. They did so in the run-up to Bill Clinton's second-term victory, in 1996. As a result, the minimum wage rose to a measly $5.15 an hour, where it is still stuck. 
 The catalyst in this game is Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat. Between presidential elections, he regularly introduces minimum-wage bills that he tries to push through by attaching them as amendments to other bills. That never works. His latest proposal, introduced in the Senate on April 29 and in the House a week later, would raise the minimum to $7 an hour in three steps over 26 months. 
 ''Only one thing stands in the way of a fairer minimum wage -- one thing -- and it's the Republican Party,'' Senator Kennedy said on the day he introduced his latest bill, listing John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, as co-sponsor.
 The Republicans are the obstacle; they say so themselves, although they are less outspoken in an election year. Their constituents include tens of thousands of small-business owners who pay their employees the minimum wage and don't want it to rise. Ideology also plays a role. Wages should be determined by market forces, not government mandate, Republicans argue. Mandating a higher minimum only reduces employment of the nation's least-skilled workers. Hamburger flippers are not worth more than $5.15 an hour, in this view, and the proprietors of fast-food restaurants will shrink their work forces if they are forced to raise their wages.
 All these arguments seemed more plausible when Ronald Reagan took office in 1981 and halted the regular increases that for many years kept the minimum wage rising more or less in tandem with inflation. Since then, various studies have demonstrated that employers do not shed workers when the minimum rises. Twelve states have pushed up their minimums in the absence of Congressional action, and without noticeable job loss. 
 The most painful finding involves market forces. They indeed keep wages rising in sync with inflation most of the time for most of the work force, but not for the bottom 5 percent -- the least-skilled, lowest-paid men and women. That is more than six million people. Except in a very tight labor market, like that of the late 1990's, their wages go up only when the minimum wage does. 
 ''Raising the incomes of these people is the single most important function of the minimum wage,'' said Robert Pollin, a labor economist at the University of Massachusetts.
 The public is sympathetic, pollsters report. In a January poll, for example, the Pew Research Center found that 94 percent of the 1,503 people questioned were in favor of an increase in the minimum wage, with 77 percent calling action by Congress either a priority or important. No wonder, then, that the Republicans in election years are loath to display their opposition to a higher minimum wage, and even offer to support an increase. 
 In 2000, when the Clinton administration, mostly at the insistence of Senator Kennedy, pushed for a $1 increase, to $6.15 an hour, in two annual 50-cent installments, the Republicans agreed, with provisos. The Democrats would have to accept various tax cuts as an offset, particularly cuts for small business. That compromise almost happened but failed in the final weeks of the Congressional session.
 Now the Republicans are putting together a response to Senator Kennedy's latest endeavor. The response is still ''a work in progress,'' a Republican Congressional aide said, ducking a discussion of details. Three Republican aides apparently involved in the work said they did not know enough about the proposal to describe it, although one said that a recent article in The Hill, a publication that reports on Congressional doings, was an accurate outline of the Republican alternative.
 ACCORDING to The Hill, the Republicans will counterpropose an increase of $1.10 over two years, instead of Senator Kennedy's $1.85. 
 ''We may be looking at a Republican-controlled Congress sending a minimum-wage increase to a Republican president,'' The Hill reported. ''These are the election-year realities.''
 The sadness in these realities is the hardship. Two-thirds of minimum-wage workers are 20 years of age or older, in many cases men and women working full time and supporting children. After so many delays, even Senator Kennedy's $7 an hour would not put a breadwinner and two children above the poverty line.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks minimum wage, in 2000 dollars, from 1960 - 2000.(Source by Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); DISMISSALS (64%); FAST FOOD (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%) Labor; Minimum Wage; Wages and Salaries; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (57%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2004



371 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2157 words

HEADLINE: City Reshaping Building Codes To U.S. Model

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
New York City has embarked on the most comprehensive rewriting of its building, fire, plumbing and electrical codes since they were first adopted more than a century ago.
 This quiet revolution will alter the city's inner landscape, from life-and-death details like fire sprinklers and the lighting in emergency stairways to mundane matters like allowing homeowners to save money by using plastic pipes for toilets and sinks.
 The revisions -- the most important of which are now being drafted behind closed doors by 13 committees of engineers, safety experts and real estate developers appointed by the Bloomberg administration -- are not expected to make a radical difference in the way buildings are constructed. But because the codes have effectively been the city's DNA, shaping its appearance and its workings, the changes are likely to affect all the places in which New Yorkers live and work in myriad ways, big and small.
 Stairwells in new high-rise buildings would have to be pressurized to keep them from becoming chimneys during a fire, under one possible change, while another -- opposed by many families of 9/11 victims -- would sharply reduce the amount of fireproofing required in many buildings. New precautions against earthquake damage could force developers in certain parts of the city where the soil is soft to build stronger, more expensive structures. 
 At bottom, though, the most surprising change is that New York is abandoning many of the intricate restrictions, carefully tailored to its quirks and jealously defended over the decades, that have made its codes a byzantine patchwork and have made the city one of the most difficult and expensive in which to put up a building. The city, in fact, is tossing out all of those codes, adopting standard codes in effect across the nation, then adding back pieces of the old rules as needed. And those additions have become the crux of sometimes fierce debate.
 ''This is a landmark turning point in the city's history as far as codes go,'' said Glenn P. Corbett, an assistant professor of fire science at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a member of the committee reviewing fire-protection rules. ''New York City is preparing to give up its own homegrown codes, which are too expensive to maintain on our own and have left us way behind the rest of the country.'' 
 The city's fire code would be drastically revised, with potential consequences for everything from how merchandise is stacked in warehouse-style stores to how much propane a hot dog vendor can store on his cart.
 New kitchens will be required to have special electrical outlets to prevent electrocution, under a provision already passed into law. The way underground plumbing is laid out for new buildings may change, and even some urinals may look different.
 The choices now being made by the committees, which require the approval of the City Council and the mayor, will be felt in New Yorkers' pocketbooks, both as savings and as new costs. They could influence how many lives are lost each year to fires and other calamities, and may even affect how many people are killed or injured the next time a terrorist strikes.
 The city has already approved a new electrical code, which went into effect last year. The committees are expected to come up with recommendations for the building and plumbing codes in June, and a new fire code in the next year to 18 months. 
 So far, the effort has played out largely in closed meetings of about 400 panel members, as the Bloomberg administration tries to address disagreements early and in private. In interviews, committee members and others involved in the process said many of those disputes have come down to a clash between two typically antithetical goals: cutting building costs and increasing safety.

The Impact of 9/11
 The move to revise the city's ground rules for building construction and maintenance began two years ago, prompted by a nationwide push to simplify and standardize building codes and to recognize new materials and technologies.
 Many parts of these uniform codes, like the International Building Code and the International Fire Code, are less stringent and less costly than New York's. Adopting a so-called model code is expected to save New York builders tens of millions of dollars, from the town house where bathrooms will cost hundreds less because plastic pipe can be used instead of copper or brass, to the department store that state officials say now costs about $1.75 million less, on average, to build elsewhere in the state since Albany adopted the International Building Code in 2002. 
 Yet the other big thrust behind the city's effort came after Sept. 11, 2001, when safety experts and victims' families began a crusade to make New York's fire and building codes more stringent. An April 2002 explosion in a Chelsea sign shop that injured 36 people added to the urgency; federal investigators concluded that the fire code was so out of date that it did not prohibit the mixing of incompatible chemicals. 
 Already, powerful groups representing both camps -- developers and city officials who want to lower building costs and those who say there is no better time to tighten safety measures -- are lobbying to ensure that their views prevail. And the process has become politicized in even more complex ways because of all the other interests represented on the 13 committees: those of unions, architects, environmentalists, disabled people and advocates for the construction of low- and moderate-income housing. 
 Most everyone involved agrees that the old codes are too unwieldy and expensive to keep up to date. But many people want to retain some of their idiosyncratic provisions, which they say embody the lessons learned in an unusually dense, vertical city that little resembles the rest of the nation.
 ''The code reflects the experience that has been accumulated in New York City over a century,'' said W. Gene Corley, a structural engineer who led a federal investigation into the World Trade Center collapse. ''It has codified those things that are needed to provide the safety the public expects.''
 But as the panels weigh which parts of the old code to preserve, through hundreds of proposed amendments, some members are concerned that an overreaction to 9/11 may compromise the effort to streamline and modernize the codes. 
 ''It can't be knee-jerk, or we'll have to build bunkers,'' said the city's buildings commissioner, Patricia J. Lancaster, an architect whose agency initiated the code revision. ''We can't do that, or people won't come. So it's up to us to balance safety and economic development.''

Reshaping New York
 Restrictions on building materials and techniques go back to New York's earliest days; in 1648, the Dutch ordered the removal of wooden chimneys to reduce fire hazards. But the city's modern fire and building codes were not written until the late 19th and early 20th centuries, after devastating fires like the 1911 blaze at the Triangle shirtwaist factory in Greenwich Village, which killed 146 workers. 
 Major code revisions were made in the years since, most notably in 1937 and 1968, incorporating more radical changes than are now contemplated -- rules that reshaped New York, from its water towers and fretwork of fire escapes to the creation of the ''postwar'' building, with its lighter-weight, less expensive walls and floors.
 But never has New York rewritten all of its basic regulations on buildings at the same time. Once the model codes are adopted, they will be updated every couple of years based on advice from the national experts who wrote the model codes.
 The most critical, and intensely debated, aspects of any building code are those meant to save lives. Given the enormous loss of life at the World Trade Center, much of the focus is now on finding ways to allow more people to quickly and safely evacuate buildings.
 The Buildings Department, not wanting to wait until the code revision is completed, has asked the City Council to require that exit doors and stairs in all high-rise office buildings have photoluminescent markings and backup power for lights so that workers are not caught in the dark as they are trying to get out. More robust, impact-resistant walls would also have to be built into the stairwells of new buildings, to prevent all exits from being cut off in an explosion.
 Yet one of the most disputed parts of the International Building Code would allow developers of many new buildings to use less fireproofing than is now required -- a change that would save developers considerable sums of money. The rationale is that if a new building must have sprinklers, as most tall office buildings in New York City are now required to, it should not need as much fireproofing. 
 ''Obviously the New York City code offers more protection,'' said Roland W. Hall, government relations manager for the International Code Council, a Virginia-based nonprofit group established by regional code-writing associations a decade ago to create a single national standard for building, fire, electrical and plumbing codes. ''The question people have to decide is if it is appropriate to provide that additional margin. In our organization's opinion, the slightly lesser standard provides adequate protection for life safety.''
 Others say it is essential to have overlapping safety features, or what firefighters call a ''belts and suspenders'' strategy, particularly because sprinklers have sometimes failed. They point out that the standard for fireproofing has already been rolled back since the 1930's -- from a requirement that structural columns in high-rises, for instance, withstand fire for four hours to the current rule that they stay strong for two. The model code would keep that threshold in tall buildings, but if it is not amended by the city, it would reduce fire-resistance requirements for corridors and walls separating tenants.
 ''That is, like, the dumbest thing I have ever heard,'' said Monica Gabrielle, co-chairwoman of the Skyscraper Safety Campaign, a group formed after the trade center collapse, in which her husband, Richard, was killed. ''If nothing else, Sept. 11th showed us you need more time to get out, not less time.''

A Focus on Safety
 The debate over safety extends even to matters like the array of new construction materials, including plastic pipe, that the national codes allow. Just as garbage disposals were banned in New York City until 1997 for environmental reasons, plastic pipe, used nationwide for 30 years or so, has been forbidden in New York buildings taller than three stories. 
 Some firefighters point out that the pipe gives off toxic fumes when it burns, while the local plumbers' union says that glues used to assemble it might pose a health hazard. But Julius A. Ballanco, an engineer and code consultant, countered at one Buildings Department hearing that the pipe was safe and that its opponents' underlying worry was that ''plastic pipe typically takes less labor to install and is often less costly.''
 Another proposed code change would force developers to hire an additional structural engineering firm to provide a second opinion for buildings with particularly innovative designs. If the International Fire Code is adopted in its entirety, the storage and handling of chemicals will be far more restricted.
 But the changes will go far beyond matters of safety. Environmental groups like Earth Pledge want the new code to include provisions that explicitly permit so-called green roofs, rooftops covered with dirt or vegetation that reduce a building's energy consumption by lowering cooling costs. One manufacturer is trying to get permission for buildings to install new waterless urinals that it says would each save an estimated 40,000 gallons of water per year by using an oil-and-alcohol-based drainage system.
 Many building owners and developers on the committees support a handful of code changes that would increase their expenses, like requiring sprinklers in the 200 to 400 high-rise office buildings that do not have them. But they are also looking for savings in other areas.
 ''We are not ashamed to say we are interested in the dollar,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. ''One of the reasons we have a hard time finding commercial tenants and building affordable housing is the high cost of doing construction. And that is clearly tied in part to the current code.''
 To test just what cost differences the new codes might make, city officials are studying building projects now in progress to compare prices under the old and model codes, said Ms. Lancaster, the buildings commissioner. If a certain part of the model code turns out to be significantly costlier, she said, the city will reconsider that provision. 
 Despite the focus on the bottom line, she said, ''I am committed to ensuring that the new code is as safe or safer than the code today.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (''Our Firemen, A History of the New York Fire Departments,'' by Augustine E. Costello)
(Photo by Underwood & Underwood/Corbis)
(Photo by T.W.A.)(pg. B4)Chart: ''History Rewrites the Rules''New York City codes and revisions enacted since the 19th century.1860 -- New York City adopts the first comprehensive building codes in America, inspired by the Elm Street tenement fire, in which 20 people were killed. The law requires emergency exits for the first time.1911-1916 -- In the years after the 1911 Triangle shirtwaist factory fire, an electrical code is enacted, a Fire Prevention Bureau is created at the Fire Department and the building code is revised.1937 -- The city building code is rewritten
restrictions are placed on wood frame construction
and permission is granted for the use of fire-resistant wood doors.1968 -- The building code is rewritten again, allowing for new, lighter-weight materials and spray-on fireproofing. Previously illegal techniques, like those employed in 1962 to build the T.W.A. terminal at what is now Kennedy International Airport would now be possible in New York City.(Sources by ''The Fireproof Building: Technology and Public Safety in the Nineteenth-Century American City'' by Dr. Sara E. Wermiel
News reports)(pg. B4)Chart/Diagram: ''New Codes, From the Ground Up''New York City is replacing its building, electrical, mechanical, fire and plumbing codes with national model codes. The following are examples of changes that are part of the model code, changes advocated by outside experts, and others that are pending before the City Council or have been adopted.ElevatorsPENDING: Waiting areas in new buildings must be sealed to prevent the spread of smoke, and elevator shafts made impact resistant.StairwellsADVOCATED: Stairs in new buildings must be at least 56 in. wide, instead of 44 in.PENDING: All highrise stairwells must be painted with glow-in-the-dark paint and equipped with backup lighting. New stairwells must be impact resistant.FloorsPENDING: Floors in new buildings must be supported by beams, rather than the lightweight trusses used in the World Trade Center.Bathrooms, Kitchens and BedroomsADVOCATED: In office bathrooms, waterless urinals would be allowed.ADOPTED: New kitchen outlets must have electrocution-prevention devices, and new bedroom outlets must have circuit interrupters to prevent fires.RampsMODEL: New buildings must, in almost all cases, have wheelchair ramps at entrances instead of mechanical lifts for the disabled.Hazardous MaterialsPENDING: New limits would be imposed on how certain chemicals are stored, labeled and mixed.Green Roofs ADVOCATED: The codes would explicitly allow inaccessible grassy rooftops intended to conserve energy and reduce pollution.SprinklersPENDING: All existing office buildings taller than 100 feet that do not already have sprinklers must install them within 15 years.FireproofingMODEL: New buildings may use materials that are less fire resistant in corridors and walls separating tenants.VentilationPENDING: Air intake vents on high-rise office buildings must be at least 20 feet above the ground, as a defense against a toxic gas attack.Electrical GroundingADOPTED: To prevent electrocution, new buildings must have a copper rod driven into the soil as backup grounding for electrical service.PlumbingMODEL: Plastic pipes, instead of just metal ones, would be allowed in all buildings, reducing installation costs.Diagram illustrating building, electrical, mechanical, fire and plumbing changes that are part of the model code, changes advocated by outside experts, and others that are pending before the City Council or have been adopted.(Sources by N.Y.C. Buildings and Fire Departments
International Code Council
United Spinal Association
Earth Pledge
Jake Pauls Consulting Services
5 Boro Electrical Contractors Association
 Falcon Waterfree Techonolgies)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); EARTHQUAKES (66%); TERRORISM (66%); HIJACKING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Buildings (Structures); Accidents and Safety; Terrorism; Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; World Trade Center (NYC); Buildings (Structures); Buildings (Structures)

PERSON: Eric Lipton; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



372 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Dominicans Cast Ballots in Presidential Vote

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 16 

 BODY:
Mired in their worst economic crisis in recent history, voters in the Dominican Republic came out in large numbers on Sunday to cast ballots for a new president. Numerous polls indicated they would bring back former President Leonel Fernandez.
 The voting was described by independent observers and diplomats as ''massive'' and ''orderly.'' However, in a country where elections are routinely tainted with fraud and violence, tensions were high among the country's main political camps, which exchanged accusations of unfair campaign practices in the days leading up to the election. On Sunday morning, soldiers were dispatched to a polling place in Barahona, a southwestern town, after gunfire left three people dead and two others wounded. 
 Santiago Murray, chief of the Organization of American States elections mission, said that the shooting had cast a pall over the contests, but that most of the voting was fair and open. He estimated that about 70 percent of the country's five million registered voters cast ballots.
 A Gallup poll, published by the free newspaper Diario Libre, gave a 13-point advantage to Mr. Fernandez, a 50-year-old lawyer who governed the country from 1996 to 2000. He was considered a political protege of Joaquin Balaguer, the revered and reviled leader who dominated politics in Dominican Republic for four decades before he died in 2002.
 Although his own government was clouded by charges of corruption, political observers said Mr. Fernandez's popularity reflected people's wide discontent with the incumbent candidate, Hipolito Mejia, a 63-year-old agronomist with an earthy political style whose government many Dominicans blame for pushing one of the region's fastest growing economies close to ruin.
 In two years, $2.2 billion has been taken from public coffers to cover the costs of the collapse of one of the country's largest banks, Banco Intercontinental. Inflation has soared to about 43 percent, and the value of the nation's currency has declined by more than half.
 The economic crisis has sent waves of Dominican migrants across the Caribbean to Puerto Rico. The United States Coast Guard has reported intercepting more than 3,200 Dominicans at sea so far this year, up from 1,469 in all of 2003. About two dozen died during the passage.
 ''Leonel Fernandez will win, because Hipolito has done nothing for this country,'' said Juan Zapata, a security guard at a polling place in a working-class neighborhood in Santo Domingo, the capital.
 For the first time, 52,000 registered Dominican voters living primarily in the United States and Spain, were allowed to cast ballots in today's elections. The Central Bank reported that Dominicans living abroad sent an estimated $2.6 billion to their homeland last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Carmelite nuns voted yesterday in Herrera in the Dominican Republic's presidential election. Turnout was estimated at 70 percent. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TRENDS (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); ETHICS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); CURRENCIES (61%); LAWYERS (51%) Elections; Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Ethics; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%) Organization of American States; Gallup Organization

PERSON: Ginger Thompson; Santiago Murray; Leonel Fernandez; Hipolito (Pres) Mejia

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%) Dominican Republic ; Dominican Republic 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



373 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Some Analysts Salute Markets For Already Raising Rates

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16 

 BODY:
It will probably be six weeks before the Federal Reserve curtails its policy of cheap money, but a growing number of analysts worry that it may have already waited too long.
 The pressure to raise rates has increased over the last month, after the federal government reported that job creation surged in April for the second month and prices rose markedly in both March and April.
 Commodity prices have soared in the last year, with crude oil for delivery in June settling at $41.38 a barrel on Friday, the highest since the contract was first traded. The prices of many industrial raw materials are at their highest levels since the late 1970's. 
 Wholesale food prices surged 1.4 percent last month, after a similar jump in March. The so-called core rate of retail inflation, excluding food and energy, has climbed at an annual pace well above 3 percent in the last three months.
 ''The Federal Reserve has been behind the curve,'' said Brian Wesbury, chief economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, an investment firm in Chicago. ''With G.D.P. growth at a 20-year high, with inflation pressures rising, there is no justification for keeping rates this low. In my opinion, they should have started raising rates last year.''
 Fed officials have been hinting for months that they will have to increase interest rates, and all evidence suggests that they will begin the process with a quarter-point rise in short-term rates at their next policy meeting on June 28-29.
 Senior Fed officials are quietly pleased that bond market investors have already anticipated rate increases by pushing up mortgage rates and yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes to the highest levels in nearly two years. Officials hope that the advance rise in long-term rates will cool the economy even before they take any action, making their job easier. 
 ''Monetary conditions in the United States are already in the process of normalizing,'' remarked Ben S. Bernanke, a Federal Reserve governor, in a speech last month. As a result of the Fed's communications strategy, he continued, ''market rates have generally responded continuously and in a stabilizing manner.''
 But analysts said the bond markets were affected more by evidence of rising employment and faster inflation than by the Fed's hints.
 ''I don't think you should give the Fed's communications much credit for the tightening in financial markets,'' said Lyle Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior economic adviser at Schwab Soundview Capital Markets. ''You should give credit to the markets for correctly interpreting the numbers that have been indicating that the economy is stronger than expected and that prices were increasing.''
 Federal Reserve officials and private economists all agree that short-term rates are too low to sustain much longer. At its current rate of 1 percent, the Federal funds rate on overnight loans is at it's the lowest level since 1958. The ''real'' interest rate, after accounting for inflation, is negligible at a time the economy is growing.
 Jittery bond investors have been gearing up for higher rates for more than a year, but Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, was until recently more worried about high unemployment and a prospect of deflation.
 In an effort to keep long-term interest rates down, the central bank took the unusual step last year of declaring that it would keep the benchmark federal funds rate low ''for a considerable period.'' It backed away from that pledge in January, saying only that it would be patient, and then again in May by saying that future rate increases would be ''measured.''
 The Fed appears determined to avoid the experience of 10 years ago, when it raised rates more sharply than investors had been expecting, jolting the markets.
 But Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Bank in Cleveland, said the circumstances were far different now. ''In 1994, the Fed was famously pre-emptive,'' Mr. DeKaser said. '' They were raising rates with virtually no evidence of inflation, and the Fed was having to do back flips to justify its actions. In the current environment, we've gotten an upturn in the trend of inflation. There is no way it can be characterized now as pre-emptive.''
 Mr. Greenspan has thus far taken a different view on inflation. Testifying to Congress last month, he acknowledged that prices had been rising but said the overall ''slack'' in the economy -- relatively high unemployment and substantial unused factory capacity -- made it unlikely that wages or prices were about to rise rapidly. Even if wages did rise, he added, corporate profits have been so high in the last year that businesses are more likely to absorb the costs than risk losing market share.
 Lawrence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now a senior adviser at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm, said, ''The Fed has a very benign interpretation about inflation, and the markets have a much more pessimistic view.'' 
 The big question is how much the Federal Reserve will raise short-term rates before it decides that monetary policy is no longer encouraging inflation.
 Robert T. Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, noted recently that the federal funds rate had averaged some 2.7 percentage points above the rate of inflation. If inflation settles around 2 percent a year, that would imply that the benchmark short-term rate would eventually have to reach nearly 5 percent -- a huge increase from 1 percent now.
 Mr. Greenspan and other top officials have made clear that they have no plan to rush to those levels. But economists caution that the Fed's hand could be forced if consumer prices keep rising at the pace of the last few months.
 ''If by the August meeting,'' Mr. Gramley said, ''we don't see the numbers showing slower growth and less inflation, then you are going to have to have a change in language.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); FOOD PRICES (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



374 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Arrives at Moment for Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Monday, May 17 

 BODY:
Against a backdrop of whoops and cheers and a party that spilled onto the streets, gay and lesbian couples here began filling out applications for marriage licenses at 12:01 a.m. on Monday, when Massachussetts became the first state in the country to allow them to marry.
 The couples were led down a series of wooden staircases at Cambridge City Hall that were decorated with white bridal organza.
 ''I feel overwhelmed,'' said Marcia Hams, 57, of Cambridge, who along with her partner, Susan Shepherd, was the first to complete the application. ''I feel ready to collapse.''
 Ms. Shepherd, 52, choked up and said, ''There's some kid somewhere that's watching this and it's going to change his whole life.'' 
 She added, ''This is like winning the World Series and the Stanley Cup on the same day. It's amazing.''
 By nightfall on Sunday, hundreds of people -- couples waiting to apply for licenses and supporters of their right to do so -- had surged toward the Romanesque stone building and formed a boisterous and ebullient crowd that spilled onto the street. They wore glittery party hats and boutonnieres, blew bubbles and waved signs that said ''Love Is in the Air'' and ''I Do Unto Others.''
 By 1:30 a.m., 263 couples had arrived to apply for marriage licenses. Meanwhile, the party outside had grown so large that police in riot gear cordoned off three blocks of Massachusetts Avenue to traffic.
 ''It's history,'' said Alex Fennell, 27, who showed up early Sunday with her partner, Sasha Hartman, 29, and got the fifth spot in line to apply for a marriage license. ''Our kids can look back and say our moms were number five.''
 Ms. Hartman said that when she woke up Sunday, she still did not quite believe that they would be able to marry.
 ''It's real,'' she said, ''but it's almost too good to be true.''
 The other 350 cities and towns in the state planned to begin taking applications for same-sex marriage licenses after the sun came up on Monday. But Cambridge -- a city of just over 100,000 people, home of Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a well-known taste for erudite rebelliousness -- decided to start things rolling at 12:01 a.m.
 By early evening, the freshly manicured City Hall lawn was a colorful collection of couples, camera crews and children playing circle games.
 Officials at City Hall threw open their doors on Sunday night for a rousing party, with wedding cake, sparkling cider and the music of the Cambridge Community Chorus.
 Weddings are planned for as early as Monday, with many couples intending to seek permission from judges to waive the three-day waiting period that is normally required between applying for a license and receiving one.
 ''It's a little overwhelming to be the poster child for gay marriage,'' said Ms. Shepherd, who was first in line on Saturday night with Ms. Hams. The couple, together since they met while working as machinists 27 years ago, said they had been asked, because of the length of their relationship, to be the first couple by a local gay rights organization. ''We have an extraordinarily solid relationship and in some ways it's time to take it to another level,'' Ms. Shepherd said.
 They said they would get married in church next Sunday and have a big celebration in September.
 Johanna Schulman and Moira Barrett brought glow sticks, a helium balloon kit to festoon the city hall plaza with balloons, and gloves, hats and extra socks to cope with a mercurial New England spring evening. Their 6-year-old daughter, Annie.
 Before taking the subway to City Hall, the couple fed the dog in their Cambridge kitchen. On the windowsill above the sink, there was a figurine of two brides. On their calendar was scrawled, ''Get Married.''
 ''This is so odd to get married after being together for 19 years,'' said Ms. Schulman, a 46-year-old financial adviser. ''I feel as emotionally invested as any bride. I have the bridal jitters.''
 The stage for Monday's cultural watershed was set in November, when the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled, in a lawsuit brought by seven same-sex couples, that gays and lesbians had a constitutional right to marry. The court set May 17 as the day the marriages could begin, and told the state Legislature to take whatever action it saw fit to comply with the court's ruling.
 But the Legislature, with a large number of Democrats who are against gay marriage, some because of their Catholic faith, was not pleased with the court's 4-to-3 decision. First, the legislators voted to ask the court if allowing civil unions would comply with the ruling. In a bitingly dismissive response in February, the court said no.
 Then, in a series of marathon constitutional conventions, marked by emotional oratory, filibustering and back-room bargaining, the legislature voted in late March to approve a constitutional amendment that would ban gay marriage and establish civil unions.
 That amendment cannot take effect unless it is approved by another session of the Legislature and then by voters in 2006, so it could not hold up the start of same-sex marriages.
 One certain target of lawsuits is a 1913 law that Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican, has interpreted to mean that out-of-state couples cannot marry in Massachusetts unless they intend to move to the state. At least four communities -- Provincetown, Somerville, Worcester and Springfield -- have said they will defy the ruling, prompting the governor to threaten to fine or prosecute those town clerks and to invalidate the marriages of those couples.
 But out-of-state couples are coming to Massachusetts anyway, and on Friday, New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, appeared to leave the door open for same-sex couples from New York to legally marry in Massachusetts. The attorneys general of Connecticut and Rhode Island are expected to issue opinions on the subject on Monday.
 Keith Hershberger, 54, and Kevin Green, 50, drove up from Brooklyn to become the 32nd couple to apply for a license. On their form, they initially wrote that they were from New York City and intended to stay there, but a clerk told them that they would not issue them a license unless they intended to move to Massachusetts. So they crossed out New York City and wrote in Shelburne Falls, Mass.
 ''We do love Shelburne Falls,'' said Mr. Hershberger, who wore a long braid, a brown cowboy hat and a turquoise earring. ''And we would like to retire there.''
 In Massachusetts, there is giddiness and wariness, exhilaration and discomfort. Twelve of the state's 1,200 justices of the peace have resigned rather than perform same-sex marriages, said Claire M. Mentus, president of the Massachusetts Justices of the Peace Association.
 But at least one justice of the peace applied for that job in order to be able to solemnize gay marriages. J. Mary Sorrell, 43, of Amherst, became a justice of the peace in February and planned to be at the city clerk's office in Northampton, a gay-friendly college town, at 5 a.m. Monday, so that the expected crush of same-sex couples know she is available to marry them.
 ''I am a lesbian and I wanted to make sure that there was a visible member of our community who was not merely willing to solemnize same sex marriages, but who was excited as a member of the tribe,'' Ms. Sorrell said.
 Across the street from Cambridge City Hall on Sunday night were a dozen or so opponents of gay marriage led by a Kansas minister, the Rev. Fred Phelps, and holding signs, some with slurs against homosexuals.
 ''Two men and two women marrying each other is a passport to hell'' said Katherine Hockenbarger from Topeka, Kan., who was standing on an American flag.
 As the celebration in Cambridge grew, a smattering of couples were lining up at other town halls. Vincenza Martorano and Julianne Gale, 22-year-old college students, were sleeping on the steps of city hall in Somerville, with 10 of their friends.
 ''It's a great honor to be the first ones in line,'' Ms. Martorano said. 
 The couples who came to Cambridge Sunday night were enthusiastic, but also sober, anticipating cultural and economic roadblocks ahead, and acutely aware of their role as representatives of a new era for gays and lesbians.
 ''I'm mostly excited, but I'm also bewildered because there's a lot of confusion now,'' said Robyn Ochs, 45, who works in technology at Harvard, and will marry her partner, Peg Preble, 46, an electrician. ''What does this mean, having a relationship that isn't recognized at the federal level but is at the state level? What benefits won't we get? How does this play out? How do we do our taxes next year? In the long run, do we incur more responsibilities than we get benefits because of the lack of federal protection?''
 Other couples were feeling economic pressures to marry. Lisa McDonnell and Julia Dunbar decided to marry because they heard Ms. Dunbar's employer was thinking of discontinuing health benefits for domestic partners, so that gay partners, like heterosexuals, could receive health benefits only if married.
 ''We weren't planning to rush into it,'' said Ms. McDonnell, a self-employed social worker. ''The hard part is the freedom to marry has become the pressure to marry has become the coercion to marry.''
 But others were underplaying the significance of it all, treating marriage as a nice, but quotidian step.
 ''We may take the afternoon off, and after it's all over go to Taco Bell or something or mow the lawn,'' said Greg Llacer of Boxborough, Mass., about the Thursday wedding he had planned with his partner, Doug Miller. ''We're just kind of geeks. We're pretty understated, but I think we'll get dressed up. A jacket and tie at least.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two New Yorkers, Keith Hershberger, right, and Kevin Green, waited yesterday to apply for a marriage license in Cambridge, Mass. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RIOTS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ICE HOCKEY (68%) Marriages; Homosexuality

PERSON: Pam Belluck

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Cambridge (Mass); Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



375 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: No Longer the Next Big Thing, Hummer Offers First Rebates

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 16 

 BODY:
Like other Hummer dealers, Jim Lynch is spending millions of dollars to erect a giant glass and steel Quonset hut in Chesterfield, Mo., to replace his dealership near St. Louis. General Motors is insisting that its Hummer dealers plant these fortresses in chic suburbs across America, each announced by a 35-foot-tall ''H'' out front.
 But most dealers are undertaking the ambitious construction project just as Hummer, the loudest and proudest of the giant American sport utility vehicles, has shown signs of losing its swagger.
 Sales of the flagship Hummer H2 have fallen for eight consecutive months, and 24 percent in the first four months of the year, compared with the same periods a year earlier. G.M. has resorted to rebates and financing deals, which have become standard for every Detroit brand but Hummer. Inventories piled up as Hummers sat unsold 62 days on average in the first quarter, compared with 15 days a year earlier. And G.M. is now using leases, which are less lucrative than sales, to move a quarter of its volume of H2's, according to J. D. Power & Associates. 
 ''I don't know what it is. I know in some parts of the country it became the poster child for large S.U.V.'s for people who didn't like them,'' said Mr. Lynch, who has sold Hummers for a decade.
 ''I know they're burning them in California,'' he added, referring to the arson of a dealership last year. The attack was linked to the Earth Liberation Front, a radical environmental group. ''But we didn't see that here,'' he said.
 Dealers and analysts say rising gas prices are contributing factors for the vehicle, which gets about 11 miles per gallon and has a smaller gas tank than some rivals. For the last two years, fuel economy has been among the top 10 complaints of Hummer owners in J. D. Power's initial quality surveys.
 But other giant-sized S.U.V.'s showed signs of sales weakness only in April. To most analysts, the Hummer's main problem is that the H2's success was as a flashy new motorized toy whose time came and went.
 G.M. is betting the brand will be revived next year by the H3, a smaller Hummer in the $30,000 range.
 ''We look at the higher-end S.U.V.'s as really being fashion statements,'' said Wes Brown, an analyst at Iceology, a market research firm in Los Angeles. ''It had its moment in the sun when everyone had to have one. And now, that's it. It's done.'' The H2's initial success and subsequent cooling off was mirrored by other memorable vehicles, including late 90's revivals of the Ford Thunderbird and Volkswagen Beetle, he said. 
 Michael DiGiovanni, Hummer's general manager, said, ''The brand has enormous growth potential. We're just in our infancy.''
 ''If we had one vehicle line, like the H2, that would be hard to sustain the brand, but we've planned it well and we're going to grow next year.''
 G.M. owns the brand's retail rights, but Hummers are built by AM General, a privately held company based in South Bend, Ind., that also builds military Humvees. When Hummer was introduced more than a decade ago -- Arnold Schwarzenegger bought the first one -- it was little different from a Humvee and it sold for $100,000 and up.
 But in 2002, G.M. brought Hummer to a wider audience with the $50,000 suburbanized H2 with creature comforts like heated seats. It was a roaring success. It sold for more than a year with almost no incentives, unheard of in Detroit, which has been offering free financing deals or $4,000 rebates on other vehicles.
 Now Hummer lags other luxury S.U.V.'s in several categories tracked by Edmunds.com, an automotive data company, including how long it takes dealers to move vehicles off their lots.
 Dealers say a new pickup truck version of the H2, coming this month, the H2 S.U.T., will revive sales. They consider the H3 the brand's savior.
 ''We're a little edgy, yes,'' says Dan Frost, owner of Detroit Hummer, who is building a new dealership in Novi, Mich. ''Sales are weak.''
 ''The big thing they have us on is the H3,'' he said.
 ''We're making a big investment in the hopes this will pay off,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 Certainly, Hummers are passionately loved and hated. 
 ''The look is enchanting,'' said Arnie Bergen, 62, an Oakland, N.J., software developer and retired teacher who test drove one recently.
 ''It looks like a fun car that you want to get into and drive,'' he said. ''I haven't had that experience since I was a young kid.''
 To detractors, they are symbols of the nation's soaring oil consumption. Hummers are so large that they are not regulated by fuel economy standards governing most vehicles. 
 One Web site dedicated to what it calls the ''ultimate poseur vehicle'' has collected 553 photographs from people all over the country giving salutes to Hummers, Hummer executives, Hummer toys and pictures of Hummers in magazines. As one might guess, these are not military salutes. The site's name cannot be printed in a family newspaper.
 The Sierra Club sponsors www.hummerdinger.com, a satirical site lampooning Hummers for, among other things, getting less than half the mileage of a Model T Ford.
 Buyers of luxury S.U.V.'s are not counting pennies at the pump.
 ''If gas was $5 a gallon, I'd probably forget about the Hummer, but if it was $3 a gallon, I'd buy the Hummer,'' said Mr. Bergen. ''I'm not being a big shot,'' he added. ''It's not a major issue for me.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Going Off Road''Sales of Hummers have stagnated in recent months.Graph tracks monthly sales since the H2 went on sale* since 2002.*Figures include sales of the H1 and the H2(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); MARKETING SURVEYS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); INVENTORIES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECOTERRORISM (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ARSON (64%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) Automobiles; Hummer (High Mobility Multipurpose Vehicle); Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Sales; Rebates; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



376 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Culture Clash on the Messy Trail of Computer Viruses

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

TRANSMISSION
By Hari Kunzru
276 pages. Dutton. $24.95.
 ''Anyone on foot in suburban California is one of four things: poor, foreign, mentally ill or jogging,'' Hari Kunzru writes in his wickedly astute second novel, ''Transmission.'' The Indian-born computer whiz Arjun Mehta isn't a runner, and his mental state is uncertain, but the first two adjectives certainly apply.
 ''Mummy, I'm going to America!'' Arjun announces early in this deft comedy of global manners and cyberpranks. ''He might as well have said prison, or be trampled by horses,'' Arjun's mother thinks, just before she bursts into tears.
 But her boy has been seduced: he imagines a Silicon Valley ''where surfer girls accompanied you to films viewable on the day of international release and the number of available flavors N was always n + 1, where n was the total when you last looked at the menu.'' Arjun is such a creature of computer culture that he shocks an Indian friend by preferring Silicon Valley to Hollywood. ''What would you rather run your fingers over, computer keyboard or Cameron Diaz?'' the friend asks in disbelief.
 Arjun's sister, Priti, is able to stay home in India by picking up an Australian accent and learning to describe ''on-the-barbie'' as ''an Australian style of tandoori cooking.'' That way she can adopt the nom-de-phone of Hayley and take on telephone work that has been outsourced to India from New South Wales. But Arjun is more of a romantic, and so he travels around the world to seek work with a company that detects computer viruses. 
 ''Transmission,'' which depicts a tiny computer mouse at the top of every page, is not just about stopping viruses but also about being creative -- very creative in Arjun's case -- in instigating them.
 With this second novel (after ''The Impressionist,'' a wildly inventive gallop through the raj with a shape-shifting British-Indian hero), the entertaining Mr. Kunzru makes it even clearer that he has a flair for culture clash and metamorphosis. The new book's other characters are every bit as mutable -- and comically hapless -- as Arjun proves to be. Chief among them is Guy Swift, an entrepreneur from London who has come up with Tomorrow* as a clever name for his consulting business. Everything about Guy is studiedly ironic, right down to the ring tone he chooses for his cell phone.
 ''He knew that the tiniest lapse of concentration, the smallest failure of response, could send him tumbling down toward the place of discount clothing outlets, wood-chip wallpaper and economy chicken pieces,'' the book says of Guy. As it is, he lives in a trendy glass high-rise in London, complete with a Hopi Indian meditation space that features the sound of coyote cries. Guy has acquired a beautiful girlfriend named Gabriella. She is bored with him, and no wonder. When Guy wants to wow Gabriella, he Googles the phrase ''expensive gifts'' and finds something to send her. The attached card reads ''Impressed? xG.''
 What do these separate people, places and cultures have to do with one another? It is Mr. Kunzru's amusing notion that the madcap blurring of their destinies is only a mouse-click away. So ''Transmission'' sets off a comedy of manners, prompted by Arjun's desperately unhappy, bait-and-switch experience of the American dream. (''Things ok here yes lots of girls wear short pants yes it is nice no have not spoken to many yet or seen p anderson or bv slayer busy got to go,'' he writes home.)
 And its plot comes to incorporate Leela Zahir, India's sweetheart and the star of countless bad Bollywood movies, into Arjun's machinations. Leela is in the midst of the kind of Indian musical that calls for scenes of the Scottish Highlands (Mr. Kunzru is particularly funny about the crazy incongruities of this genre) when she is dragged into the book's cyberscheme.
 And while Mr. Kunzru is laying the groundwork for a meltdown with an effect that will be cumulative, ''an accretion of frustration, a furring of the global arteries,'' he also sends Guy to try his salesmanship in far-flung locales like a golf course in Dubai and a dauntingly elegant restaurant in Brussels. ''Guy looked at King Leopold II,'' Mr. Kunzru writes about a piece of statuary in the restaurant. ''King Leopold looked back at Guy, who checked his tie to see if it was straight. He was sweating.''
 If ''Transmission,'' starts out with an eye for literate social satire that suggests Martin Amis or Zadie Smith, it winds up in a Chuck Palahniuk paranoid daydream of systematic unraveling. All the while Mr. Kunzru manages to be as affectionate as he is gimlet-eyed about his characters. While the book presents such kaleidoscopic absurdities as an Indian film crew's bewilderment at the stags' heads and violent tartans it encounters in Scotland, or Guy's game plan to make Europe more exclusive by marketing it as the V.I.P. room of the world, it also evokes the essential sweetness and bewilderment of everyone in this story. 
 Good-humored even when it overheats into a conspiracy-theory finale, ''Transmission'' potently reaffirms this author's initial promise. It also vividly envisions the computer user's worst nightmares:
 ''These machines -- which had always terrorized them in small ways, by crashing, hanging, demanding meaningless upgrades or simply scolding them in the persona of an annoying cartoon paper clip -- were now revealed to harbor something more sinister, something with an agenda. This was it, the enemy within, a technological fifth column in the homes of ordinary Americans. By the time talk radio got hold of it, a consensus had emerged that the attack should be avenged in blood.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hari Kunzru (Photo by Jet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); LITERATURE (72%); OFFSHORING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); OUTSOURCING (65%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (52%) Janet Maslin; Hari Kunzru

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



377 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: An Iconoclastic Architect Turns Theory Into Practice

BYLINE: By JULIE V. IOVINE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
After rising fast to fame in the 1980's when his firm, Morphosis, helped define the front edge of the Los Angeles architecture boom, Thom Mayne largely slipped from view. First came a split from a longtime partner and a deliberate shift from design grandstanding, followed by a painstakingly slow recovery from projects canceled when the Asian economy stalled.
 Mr. Mayne, 60, appears to be back in stride, his firm's name now appearing regularly on A-lists for prestigious commissions. 
 Morphosis is one of five finalists for the $1.5 billion Olympic Village competition, part of a bid by New York to be the site of the 2012 Olympics. A decision is expected this month. To house 16,000 athletes, Mr. Mayne has proposed a largely horizontal superblock of ribbon-shaped buildings interlaced along the the East River in Long Island City, Queens, leaving 60 acres of the interior area open as a park.
 He has also teamed with David Childs of Skidmore Owings & Merrill in a star-laden competition here to redevelop a site near the Walt Disney Concert Hall, designed by Frank Gehry. One of the other teams includes Mr. Gehry, Zaha Hadid, Norman Foster and Jean Nouvel. The announcement of a winner for that 3.2 million-square-foot downtown Grand Avenue redevelopment is expected later this month. In February Mr. Mayne won a competition to build an academic building for Cooper Union in Manhattan.
 ''What really impresses me about Tom is his exploratory instinct,'' said Richard Koshalek, president of the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena and a consultant on the Grand Avenue project. ''His worK not only explores original ideas not derived from other precedents, but it advances the cause of contemporary architecture.''
 Mr. Mayne's design for a federal office building in San Francisco, for example, calls for perforated metal cladding and three-story lobbies, but no traditional windows. When completed next year it will be the first office tower in the United States to use natural ventilation rather than air-conditioning. 
 The client balked at the prospect of no windows, but Mr. Mayne said him goal is to go beyond aesthetics. ''That stainless-steel cladding allows us to move air and save about $500,000 a year in air-conditioning bills,'' he said.
 For the Diamond Ranch High School near Pomona, Calif., completed in 2000, jagged-shaped pavilions are terraced into a hillside with an open-air corridor along the top ridge that echoes the angular slopes of the distant San Bernardino Mountains. Herbert Muschamp, the architecture critic of The New York Times, wrote, ''One minute you're looking at cheap industrial materials -- concrete, corrugated metal, glass -- and then you notice that you're walking through a place that's as exceptional and democratic as the academic village Thomas Jefferson designed for the University of Virginia.''
 Mr. Mayne has long been known for explorations into industrial materials, but the heavy metals that were the signature of his early years have given way to more diaphanous metallic screens and large masses broken down into irregular-shaped volumes that slip past or fold into one another with dynamic ease. 
 ''Architecture is the story of how we see ourselves,'' Mr. Mayne said at his Santa Monica office, where 37 people work in a former cardboard-box factory. ''It is the architect's job to service everyday life.'' In the kitchen four wall-mounted video cameras record the action at Morphosis construction sites.
 In addition to working in New York, Morphosis is completing a facility for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Suitland, Md.; a recreation center for the University of Cincinnati; and a housing project in Madrid. Recently completed projects include a bank with a kindergarten in Austria and a state headquarters building based on sustainable design in Sacramento.
 At first glance Mr. Mayne appears to be a slightly graying version of the wild-eyed, lanky guy leaping euphorically into the air, Beatles-style, for a magazine photographer in the 80's. But the changes since then run deep. Born in Waterbury, Conn., in 1944, he came into his own at the University of Southern California in the 60's, studying architecture with a social agenda and urban planning focus. ''But I soon realized policy and planning were not going to work for me,'' Mr. Mayne recalled. ''I needed more tangible resolution.''
 Soon he was living on a commune with members (including Jane Fonda) of the grass-roots group Campaign for Economic Democracy, some of whom became his earliest house clients. 
 In 1972 he and six others founded the Southern California Institute of Architecture, known as SCI-Arc, to reinvigorate formal architectural education with a keener sense of social conscience. His collaborations with a student, Michael Rotondi, and a colleague, Jim Stafford, led to the creation of Morphosis. And as the Greek word implies, Morphosis is dedicated to transformation. 
 The 80's were a heady time for architecture in Los Angeles. Morphosis built a reputation for publishing theoretical proposals as often as designing actual buildings. With money pouring in from Asian investors, architects like Mr. Gehry, Frank Israel, Mr. Mayne and Mr. Rotondi were free to experiment through building with an abandon often shocking to the more theory-bound architectural bigwigs on the East Coast. And like Mr. Gehry, with whom Morphosis was often packaged in articles about Los Angeles, Morphosis became known for transforming industrial materials like corrugated metal and plywood into richly patinated and colored surfaces. 
 The speed with which Morphosis and other Los Angeles architectural firms rocketed to the top of the profession made it all the more difficult to come back to earth when economic depression hit in Asia, sending aftershocks to California. ''All of a sudden 10 years and a huge number of projects went by,'' Mr. Mayne said. In 1990 he and Mr. Rotondi parted ways, with Mr. Mayne keeping the firm's name.
 For the first time Mr. Mayne had to go looking for work. Entering competitions, usually the province of the candle-burning young, became a firm specialty. So did answering calls to submit qualifications for government work, rarely the field of operations for restless iconoclasts. Morphosis proved to be adept at providing architectural dash on time and on budget. 
 The ability to be creative and accountable was said to be a major attraction to the selection committee for a $60 million building at Cooper Union. ''He was a young buck and he has worked it out in practice,'' said Ralph Lerner, professor of architecture at Princeton University and a professional adviser to many competitions, ''but at his core he's a very practical guy.''
 For Mr. Mayne, being practical has never played so well.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thom Mayne of Morphosis with his design for a 2012 Olympic Village in Queens. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); LOBBYING (69%) Architecture; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Morphosis (Co)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (53%) Thom Mayne; Julie V Iovine

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



378 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Group Is Said to Seek Small but Special Israeli Daily

BYLINE: By JOSHUA MITNICK

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Leonard Asper, chief executive of Canada's largest media group, CanWest Global Communications, led a CanWest delegation in May to the headquarters here of The Jerusalem Post. They came to discuss purchasing the paper, an English-language daily, as part of the impending breakup of Conrad M. Black's newspaper empire, Post employees said.
 Mr. Asper met with the editor in chief and the business mangers, but he did not see the paper's publisher, Tom Rose. Mr. Rose was in New York making presentations on The Post to five unidentified suitors, the employees said. 
 Why does The Jerusalem Post -- a money-losing, unevenly edited broadsheet with an opinion page tilting toward Israel's right wing, and one of the smallest properties of Hollinger International -- attract such attention? 
 As a prism to view one of the most intensively covered news stories of the last few decades, the paper has visibility abroad that overshadows its circulation and limited profit potential.
 ''The business proposition of The Post is that it's a different type of beast than any other newspaper in the world,'' said The Post's editor in chief, Bret Stephens, 30, who was hired away from The Wall Street Journal at the end of 2001 for his neoconservative stance. ''It is primarily a paper read by people abroad.''
 ''Is this a huge property that is going to rake in zillions, or is this a newspaper that is significant somehow?'' he continued. ''I think that the fact that The Post is a globally significant newspaper is, in itself, an asset to any purchaser.''
 Hollinger has put the paper on the auction block, along with The Daily Telegraph of London, The Chicago Sun-Times and other newspapers mostly in the Chicago suburbs, to recoup assets as it sues Lord Black, its former chief executive, and other officials for what it contends was financial wrongdoing and ''a pattern of racketeering.''
 Lord Black, whose attempt to sell the Hollinger newspapers to the Barclay brothers of Britain was blocked by a court ruling, has denied the accusations.
 Hollinger declined to comment on the auction process. Through his secretary, Mr. Rose of The Post refused a request for an interview. And a CanWest spokesman declined to confirm the company's interest in The Post.
 The paper is in perhaps its weakest financial state since Mr. Black and F. David Radler, the former president of Hollinger, who is also being sued, bought it for about $20 million in 1989. Israel's economic doldrums and a slump in tourism have cut into advertising revenue, while weekend circulation is down to 25,000, according to Mr. Stephens. In May 2001 it was 36,000. (By contrast, Israel's top-selling daily, Yediot Aharonot, has a weekend circulation estimated as high as 600,000.)
 In the three-year period ended in 2003, The Jerusalem Post lost about $15 million on sales of slightly more than $40 million. This has left the newspaper squeezed for cash. In 2003, Hollinger gave it about $7 million to cover salaries, a former executive at the paper said.
 Newspaper buyers, though, often look past the bottom line to intangibles like personal gratification, editorial voice and type of readership, said Robert J. Broadwater, managing director of investment banking at Veronis Suhler Stevenson in New York, a bank specializing in media acquisitions.
 ''There are some newspapers that people own that aren't necessarily financially spectacular,'' he said. ''A newspaper can be a very good bully pulpit for people, and that can be attractive for people who aren't looking to maximize the rate of return on their investment.'' Earlier in the bidding process, Hollinger had suggested a $40 million price, according to a lawyer for a suitor who dropped out.
 Despite The Jerusalem Post's financial woes, it has been a training ground for journalists who have moved on to CNN, Time magazine, The New Yorker and The Guardian. And although the paper is marginal for the bulk of Israeli readers, it has done more on-site reporting on the Iraq conflict and aftermath than its competitors.
 Mr. Stephens said The Post, one of the first papers outside the United Space to venture into cyberspace, reaches 400,000 nonpaid subscribers -- most of them diaspora Jews -- through an award-winning Internet edition.
 Moshe Arens, a former Israeli foreign and defense minister, said: ''It's a newspaper for people who don't know enough Hebrew. It's not very important as far as Israeli politics are concerned because most Israelis don't read it.''
 But the far-flung interest in the paper's insider view of Israel is probably what would draw CanWest's attention. The founder of the Canadian media giant, Leonard Asper's father, Israel, was known for insisting on strong pro-Israel views.
 Haim Saban, an Israeli-American media billionaire who is bidding for all of Hollinger's papers with the German publisher Axel Springer, also inquired separately about The Post, according to a former Post executive who had been contacted by a lieutenant of Mr. Saban. 
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Saban declined to comment or to make him available for comment.
 Since its founding in 1932 as The Palestine Post, the paper has made a name for itself internationally as Israel's only English-language newspaper of record. It was owned by the umbrella labor organization for the country's public employees, and its coverage was initially controlled by the Labor Party. Editorials are said to have often originated in the prime minister's office.
 When Hollinger bought The Jerusalem Post, the paper came with a bloated staff, a strong union and little sense of a bottom line. Mr. Radler, who oversaw The Post for Hollinger, began jettisoning employees and reoriented the paper's editorial line to reflect the views of Israel's right wing.
 After 15 years of Hollinger ownership, The Post has only about 35 reporters and editors on staff, relying on freelance journalists to keep costs down. It faces formidable competition from the English translation of Haaretz, a respected daily, a translation produced and distributed in a joint venture with The International Herald Tribune, which is owned by The New York Times Company. A profitable printing press operation that once subsidized the newspaper was all but discontinued after The Post became mired in a court battle with the press's biggest client, Israel's Yellow Pages.
 Still, there is more value to the paper than its readership and nameplate. The central Jerusalem property occupied by The Post's headquarters has an estimated worth of $8 million to $12 million, according to employees. Dark-horse suitors for The Post include The Jewish Chronicle of London.
 The anticipated sale of The Post has also attracted Shmuel Flatto-Sharon, a French-Israeli businessman who was jailed for bribery during a successful campaign for the Israeli Parliament in 1977. He said he was bidding with a Las Vegas show producer, Norbert Aleman, and was offering just $20 million.
 ''People read it all over the world,'' Mr. Flatto-Sharon said, ''and it's important it stays patriotic. ''That's worth a couple of cents.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Staff members of The Post gathering for an evening meeting. The Hollinger paper is up for auction as part of an effort to recoup assets. (Photo by Getty Images)
 Leonard Asper, CanWest Global's chief, had talks in Jerusalem. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); LITIGATION (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: HOLLINGER INC (85%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Canwest Global Communications Corp; Jerusalem Post; Hollinger International Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%)

PERSON: DAVID BARCLAY (56%) Conrad M Black; Bret Louis Stephens; Joshua Mitnick

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



379 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Provincetown's Days in Sun Are Coming Early This Year

BYLINE: By WARREN ST. JOHN

DATELINE: PROVINCETOWN, Mass., May 16 

 BODY:
May is what locals here call the shoulder season, the short peaceful time of year between the harsh winter and the tourist-clogged summer, when residents of this gay-friendly seaside town can relax and have the place to themselves.
 But not this year. At 8 a.m. Monday, town officials will begin allowing same-sex couples to register for marriage licenses, and in anticipation, Provincetown has been overrun -- by hopeful couples, their families and friends, and by the news media, which are expected to bring three dozen satellite trucks to town.
 ''We're not used to having this much going on this early,'' said Alison Hyder, the minister at the Universalist Meeting House of Provincetown, who will officiate her first same-sex marriage on Monday. 
 Provincetown, always a welcoming place to gays, has gone out of its way to celebrate the legalization of same-sex marriage. As the fog lifted from town on Friday morning, workers at the Crowne Pointe Historic Inn tacked up a 25-foot banner declaring, ''Congrats Newlyweds.'' T-shirts bearing the phrase ''I do'' have popped up in storefront windows, alongside more traditional tourist designs, like one that reads ''This is my beer drinking T-shirt.''
 Ms. Hyder devoted her Sunday sermon to tolerance, and likened the legalization of gay marriage to the landmark civil rights case Brown v. Board of Education, which outlawed school segregation 50 years ago.
 ''Legal same-sex marriage can only make our communities stronger, more stable and more tolerant,'' she told parishioners in the 157 year-old meeting house.
 At Town Hall, a historic white clapboard structure on Commercial Street, workers clipped hedges and touched up paint in anticipation of an onslaught of media attention.
 Keith A. Bergman, the town manager, said on Friday that 110 same-sex couples had made appointments to apply for licenses, and that the town had trained 40 volunteers to help process filings on Monday.
 ''We'll be ready,'' he said.
 Gov. Mitt Romney has argued that the state Supreme Judicial Court's legalization of gay marriage applied only to couples who lived or said they intended to live in Massachusetts. But Provincetown is one of a few municipalities in Massachusetts that plans to issue marriage licenses to couples who do not intend to stay in the state, contributing to the early start to the tourist season here.
 The couple with the first appointment Monday for a license is from Minnesota: Jonathan Yarbrough, 30, and Cody Rogahn, 55. They were steeling themselves to walk the gantlet of television cameras.
 ''I didn't plan to be the first,'' Mr. Yarbrough said Sunday, adding that he had not yet told his family about his plans. ''I think I'm going to call them tonight,'' he said.
 Couples getting married in Provincetown will face logistical hurdles because of its remoteness at the end of Cape Cod. State law calls for a minimum waiting period of three days before a marriage license application can be approved. Couples can apply for a waiver of the waiting period, but to do so, they have to drive 35 miles to district court in Orleans. Last week, the court there increased its fees for the waiver, to $195 from $50, so some couples have said they will drive an additional half hour to Barnstable.
 Stephen Ross, the clerk magistrate for the court in Orleans, estimated that 20 same-sex couples had already been granted waivers, suggesting that some couples will be able to get married on Monday.
 If couples choose to come back to Provincetown for their weddings, they will then face another problem: finding clergy to perform the ceremonies. Of the ministers at the town's four churches, only Ms. Hyder is performing same-sex marriages. She has a dozen ceremonies scheduled for this week alone.
 To help handle the expected swarm of couples, David Federico, 49, the manager of the Post Office Cafe and once a drag queen known as Dixie, said he went online and became ordained by a small church based in Fremont, Calif. He said he had filed a proof of ordination with the state and was now awaiting the authorization to conduct weddings.
 ''I've been telling friends I'm going to hang a shingle and all the gay and lesbian couples will ring the bell in the middle of night to elope,'' Mr. Federico said.
 Many in Provincetown hope those couples will stick around, along with their friends and family. In the summer months, the town of 4,000 can swell to 50,000 on weekends, but in the fall, business plummets.
 Steve Melamed, the owner of a restaurant called Bayside Betty's, said that the crowds would make summer weddings difficult. He and other business owners hope couples will get married here during the shoulder seasons -- the other is in the early fall -- extending the annual economic cycle here.
 Businesses already are adapting to lure this potential revenue stream. Patricia Fitzpatrick, tourism director of Provincetown, said she had noticed a number of restaurants adding the words ''and catering'' to their storefront signs.
 Some businesses have expanded in anticipation of a sudden spike in business, she said. P-town Parties, a local caterer recently leased an abandoned restaurant to use as a kitchen for catering large events.
 And, Ms. Fitzpatrick said, a number of new businesses had opened in expectation of a wedding boom. Chris Kohler, who opened a florist operation called Friday Floral last month, said he decided to go into the business once it appeared that like gay marriage would be legalized. He said he is booked for four same-sex marriages in the next week.
 ''I knew that this would be coming about, and I'm happy to be a part of it,'' he said.
 However enthusiastic the locals are about the prospect of Provincetown becoming a wedding destination, many gay couples here are not rushing to the altar.
 One couple from nearby North Truro, Joann Eldridge Ruth Ostenson, said they would wait until Aug. 11 to get married, in part to avoid the crush and media glare this week and in part because that is the date they consider the anniversary of their union.
 ''We've always celebrated our relationship on that day,'' Ms. Eldridge said. ''After 21 years you don't need another anniversary to celebrate.''
 Mr. Federico said he had no wedding plans at all. ''I always told my mother I wanted to stay a New England spinster,'' he said from behind the bar at the Post Office Cafe. ''Just because I can get married doesn't mean I want to get married.''


CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about preparations for same-sex marriages in Provincetown, Mass., misstated the name of a restaurant owned by Steve Melamed, who said he hoped weddings would take place in the town's slow months. It is Bayside Betsy's, not Bayside Betty's. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: With gay marriage starting, visitors are welcome all over Provincetown, like at the Crowne Pointe Historic Inn. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COHABITATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); TOURISM (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Marriages; Homosexuality; News and News Media

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (50%) Warren St John

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Provincetown (Mass); Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



380 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Which Jobs Today Have a Future?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 W. Michael Cox, Richard Alm and Nigel Holmes (Op-Chart, May 13) tell only half the story of the evolution of work in America. They show with their figures that there is a churning of jobs as old jobs succumb to new technology and trade, and new jobs take their place.
 But they don't mention the hardship -- the persistent unemployment and underemployment -- faced by younger workers ill prepared for new jobs and older workers displaced from their present long-held jobs.
 The only way we can humanely deal with this transition is by creating a national apprenticeship program financed by a partnership of government and business, aimed at upgrading skills for today's work and preparing workers to learn basic skills for tomorrow's work.
 For some, the transformation of work is progress; for the unprepared, it can be a disaster.

GARY CHAISON
Worcester, Mass., May 13, 2004

The writer is a professor of industrial relations at the Graduate School of Management, Clark University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); OLDER WORKERS (71%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%) Labor

PERSON: Gary (Prof) Chaison; W Michael Cox; Richard Alm; Nigel Holmes

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



381 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Upstate Economy Lagging

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
Upstate New York's economy is lagging behind the rest of the nation, chiefly because of influences exerted by the downstate political structure, according to a new study to be released today. The study by the Public Policy Institute, the research arm of the Business Council of New York, found that upstate New York's job growth between 1990 and 2003 was 2.3 percent, compared with 18.7 percent nationwide. Meanwhile, in a group of upstate cities including Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Utica, the number of manufacturing jobs dropped 31.8 percent during the same period, compared with 17.9 percent nationwide. The study noted that to succeed economically, upstate cities need to shrink the size of government, as well as cap Medicaid and property-tax costs. ''Every attempt to do any of these is blocked in Albany -- largely because of the dominance exercised by the downstate political culture. That has to change,'' the study said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); MEDICAID (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); PROPERTY TAX (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (82%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%) Medicaid; Taxation; Property Taxes; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (59%) Business Council of New York State

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



382 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; Blackpool Journal

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: A Struggling Resort Dreams of a Date With Lady Luck

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: BLACKPOOL, England 

 BODY:
Thirty years ago, 17 million people a year braved frigid seas and draconian bed-and-breakfasts to make the city the working-class resort of the north. Today, with sunny Spain a cheap plane ride away, the number has plunged, to 10.6 million, and Blackpool has found itself relying more and more on less well-behaved, hard-drinking, younger visitors.
 To recapture its popularity, Blackpool is banking on legislation that would bring Vegas-style gambling resorts to Britain, where casinos are small, highly restricted and free of glitz. If it passes, as it is likely to in some form, Britain would become the first country in Europe to usher in American-style casinos, with their acres of slot machines, restaurants, shops and shows, a change that would significantly change how Britons gamble.
 ''Blackpool is standing on the edge of the abyss, and has no certain future as a tourism resort if we don't do this,'' said Marc Etches, managing director of Leisure Parcs, a private company that owns many of the town's main tourist attractions and persuaded the town council to embrace the idea of resort casinos. 
 Although Blackpool is remarkably organized and single-minded in its courtship of casinos, it is not alone. The legislation has brought a frenzy of deals and counter deals in nearly every big city in Britain, so many in fact, that the government is torn between delight and distaste.
 ''It is the wild, wild west,'' said Rich Mirman, a senior vice president for business development at Harrah's.
 The bill, which was drafted by the government and is wending its way through Parliament this year, seeks to modernize quirky gambling laws that date back to 1968. While the legislation grapples with all forms of gambling, from Internet betting to horse racing, its primary focus is on casinos. The new law would sharply increase the number of casinos in Britain, expand their size considerably and change the way they operate by allowing thousands more slot machines.
 So far, there has been little opposition to the idea, considering the bill's widespread ramifications.
 American gambling companies, sensing an opportunity to break into the European market, have raced to set up deals, stake out territory around Britain and weigh in on the legislation.
 The biggest beneficiaries from a change in the law, though, would be British gaming companies, which are poised to expand as soon as the bill passes, perhaps later this year.
 A special bipartisan committee set up to scrutinize the draft bill recently completed its work, and stated that the government needs to revisit certain crucial elements -- how to tax casinos, how to ensure they benefit communities and how to control the number of slot machines -- and then move swiftly to pass the legislation.
 To a large extent, many of the deals with American companies depend on the outcome of these unresolved issues, although optimism abounds on all sides. ''There is undeniable potential,'' said Alan Feldman, senior vice president of public affairs for MGM Mirage.
 ''There is no question that gambling has been a part of the culture in Britain for centuries, and the government is recognizing that fact,'' Mr. Feldman added. ''The U.K. could become the center for this kind of activity in Europe.''
 Britain has long been a betting nation. Betting shops can be found on most major streets, and gamblers bet on everything from soccer to the possibility of snow on Christmas. There is also a storied tradition of horse racing, and the national lottery brought gambling firmly into the mainstream.
 The one holdout, because of strict regulation, is casino gambling. Today, gamblers must register with a casino, then wait 24 hours to go inside. There are few slot machines and no entertainment, and until recently, no liquor could be served at tables. There are about 125 casinos in Britain, all of them relatively small and restricted to certain cities.
 Blackpool was the first to take the legislation seriously. The town council created a $1.5 billion master plan for the frayed seaside resort to thrive year-round. The plan calls for covered walkways (Blackpool's weather is notorious), trees, modern hotels and prettier public spaces. Four casino resorts would complete the picture.
 The town, which until recently has regularly been the host for the two major political party conferences, vigorously lobbied for the bill, meeting with Prime Minister Tony Blair and politicians on down the line. The local college has gone so far as to set up croupier courses to train potential casino workers.
 Blackpool's biggest pitch, and one that has resonated with the government, is that the gambling bill should work to reinvigorate the places that need it -- forlorn seaside towns like Blackpool -- and not allow casinos to crop up everywhere.
 Stretched along the inhospitable Irish Sea, a spot regularly whipsawed by wind and rain, Blackpool is a testament to Britain's unblinking determination to go on holiday, ignore the weather and make the best of things. Outfitted with several piers, it is known for its kitschy carnival atmosphere, amusement park rides and its Tower, a replica, of sorts, of the Eiffel Tower.
 ''Cities have many ways to regenerate economically,'' lamented Eddie Collett, deputy leader of the Blackpool Borough Council. ''But seaside resorts don't.''
 ''The government,'' he added, ''is quite moral in its outlook on this.''
 No American companies have signed deals in Blackpool, preferring Britain's crowded cities at this point, but the companies have not ruled out the town, either. It is up to Blackpool to persuade the regional government to steer the resort casinos its way.
 Local opposition has been mostly muffled. Steven Bate, a town council member, has led the fight against the large casinos, arguing that they will take away more jobs than they will add, and turn many townspeople into problem gamblers. ''There is no line outside a British casino right now,'' Mr. Bate said. ''There is just no demand for this.''
 Most of the town's people are jittery about the idea of casinos, but eager to do something. ''It's gone down quite a bit here,'' said John Roberts, 47, a sidewalk vendor who has lived in Blackpool for 20 years. ''Some of the girls pull their tops up and things like that, a bit like Fort Lauderdale during spring break.
 ''It needs something to give it a bit of a push.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of what Blackpool would look like under the town's master plan, which features new buildings, shown in the foreground, and improved public spaces. Four American-style resort casinos complete the plan. (Photo by The Jerde Partnership)
 A longtime tourist destination along the Irish Sea, Blackpool is known for its carnival atmosphere, amusement park rides and the Blackpool Tower, left, which is a replica of sorts of the Eiffel Tower. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)Map of England highlighting Blackpool: Blackpool sees gambling as a way to help recapture its popularity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); RESORTS (90%); CASINOS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (78%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); TOURISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HORSE RACING (62%) Gambling; Casinos; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Lizette Alvarez

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (92%); SPAIN (92%) Blackpool (Eng); Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



383 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: DIPLOMATIC MEMO

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: The Transfer Date, June 30, Is Crystal Clear, but Hardly Anything Else Is

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16 

 BODY:
For weeks, the American occupation authority in Iraq has been updating the timetable leading to the day it is supposed to go out of business, on June 30, declaring on its Web site on Sunday that there were ''46 days until Iraqi sovereignty.'' 
 Yet nowhere on the Web site, or anyplace else in official American statements, can be found the identity of the new Iraqi leadership or the precise powers of the new Iraqi government over many important matters, including the full authority over Iraqi armed forces. 
 Those forces will continue to operate under American command, but the Americans have said they will consult the new government on deployment and other issues. 
 Other subjects that remain unclear include to what extent Iraq will have a say in the practices of American-run prisons that hold Iraqi suspects, some of whom are not charged with any crimes, and over the Iraqi criminal justice system that might prosecute Americans for crimes against Iraqis. 
 ''I have asked many times who will be in charge of Abu Ghraib prison after Iraq becomes a sovereign country,'' a European diplomat said, referring to the place where Iraqi detainees were abused. ''I cannot get any answers. I can't get answers to a lot these questions.''
 Nor is it clear to what extent the World Bank and other international agencies will continue to have accounting authority over the spending of huge sums derived from Iraqi assets and oil income. More than $18 billion has accrued to Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein, and only $8 billion has been spent so far.
 Much of this money has been distributed by Americans to expedite construction projects and the like at a time when the spending of American funds appropriated by Congress has been delayed. The disbursals are audited by the auditing firm KPMG, but its work is not completed.
 Some in the Bush administration and the United Nations expect issues like these to become integral to the drafting of a United Nations Security resolution intended to confer legitimacy on the new government; the resolution is also meant to persuade more countries to send aid and troops. The decision to put off these issues is becoming a source of tension and confusion in the Bush administration.
 Last week, for example, two top officials from the State Department and one from the Defense Department gave contradictory testimony to a House committee on what would happen if an Iraqi government installed after June 30 were to ask American forces to pull out of Iraq.
 It took Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to clear up the confusion and declare that although he viewed such a possibility as remote, the Iraqis would indeed have the right to order American and allied troops out of the country if they so chose.
 American officials say all the uncertainties are a necessary byproduct of the plan to let Lakhdar Brahimi, the special United Nations envoy in Iraq, choose the new Iraqi leadership. 
 The American game plan is to let that ''caretaker government,'' which is to stay in power until elections early next year, negotiate the definition of its own powers, in discussions with the United States and other members of the United Nations Security Council, with the active participation of Arab nations in the region.
 American officials have spoken of the post-June 30 Iraqi government as having ''limited sovereignty,'' meaning that American troops will be under American command, and that the new government will be explicitly directed by the United States and the United Nations not to enact major laws or make commitments that would bind the elected government, which is to take office next year.
 The justification for letting the new government negotiate its own powers is that it would look bad to the world if the limits on Iraqi sovereignty seemed to be imposed from without.
 ''Any limitations on Iraqi authority are going to have to come from the Iraqis themselves,'' a top administration policy maker said. ''I don't see how you could do it any other way.''
 Another issue is the power of Iraq over its armed forces. France and Russia want Iraqi commanders to have the right to refuse to take part in operations ordered by American commanders who embark on disputed military actions, like the ones mounted against Iraqi insurgents in Falluja and Najaf.
 Mr. Powell said establishing ''consultative processes'' could ensure that the United States would have ''full insight into any sensitivities that might exist within the Iraqi interim government concerning our military operations.'' He provided no details.
 As for the Iraqi prison and criminal justice systems, it is not clear how much of an issue Europeans and others on the Security Council will make of this matter. But one possible disagreement can be found in American assertions that an order from L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator in Iraq, immunizing Americans from prosecution by Iraqi courts, is to remain in force. 
 But a United Nations official said recently that after June 30 such an order would not be recognized legally, since it will have come from an occupation authority no longer in existence. The Iraqi government, this official said, will have to issue such an order or negotiate one with the Americans and later have it blessed by the Security Council.
 A senior Bush administration official said the new temporary government was likely to adopt all of the ''transitional laws'' passed by the Iraqi Governing Council, the group handpicked by occupation leaders. Others are not so sure of that, considering that the Governing Council is held in disrepute by many Iraqis.
 Indeed, the caretaker government's ability to revise previous laws such as those barring the application of fundamentalist Islamic law to family matters is unclear. 
 The survival of these provisions after June 30 is in doubt, according to some diplomats involved in the process. One described the entire exercise at the United Nations as ''a leap of faith'' for all involved.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Rice Pleased With Moscow Talks
 MOSCOW, May 16 (Reuters) -- Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's national security adviser, said in an interview broadcast Sunday that she was pleased with her talks on Iraq's future with Russian leaders.
 ''I believe that the United States and Russia have a common understanding of how we should move forward,'' Ms. Rice said after consulting President Vladimir V. Putin.. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEB SITES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ACCOUNTING (74%); PRISONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (69%); TESTIMONY (62%); AUDITS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Politics and Government

COMPANY: KPMG (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



384 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Israel Says Demolition Of Homes Will Proceed

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 16 

 BODY:
Despite international criticism, Israeli officials said Sunday that they intended to proceed with a plan to widen an Israeli-patrolled lane along the Gaza Strip's border with Egypt by demolishing as many as hundreds of Palestinian homes.
 The Israeli Army defended the proposed demolitions as necessary to foil weapons smugglers and to protect soldiers in the area from Palestinian militants who use the buildings as cover.
 The development followed fierce fighting late last week in the area, the Rafah refugee camp, during which Israeli forces destroyed 88 buildings, leaving more than 1,000 people homeless, according to the United Nations refugee agency that oversees the refugee camps.
 Peter Hansen, the commissioner general of the agency, said, ''With these disproportionate military operations, Israel is in grave breach of international law.'' He called the demolitions ''collective punishment'' that would not enhance Israel's security. 
 At an economic conference in Jordan, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell also rebuked Israel for the demolitions. 
 The army said that any buildings damaged last week were being used for attacks by Palestinian militants, or had been used by them in the past. ''It is sad that terrorists make use of the civilian infrastructure with no regard to the well-being of Palestinian civilians in the area,'' said Major General Dan Harel, the chief of Israel's southern command. 
 On Sunday, the Israeli Supreme Court cleared the way for Israel to continue with such demolitions, finding that the army had a ''real, imminent need'' that justified them. It rejected a petition to stop the destruction of 13 houses in Rafah.
 Also on Sunday, Israeli forces shot and killed three Palestinians whom soldiers spotted close to Gaza's fenced boundary with Israel, in an area the army has declared off limits to Palestinians, a military official said. The official said soldiers often came under attack in that area. He said that it was not yet known if the Palestinians were armed, but that the gunfire appeared to have detonated an explosive. 
 Israeli aircraft fired five missiles into a four-story Gaza City building on Sunday. Palestinian security officials said the missiles struck offices rented by the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine and by Fatah, Yasir Arafat's movement. No injuries were reported.
 The new violence came at the end of a week in which 32 Palestinians and 13 soldiers were killed in Gaza. 
 On Monday, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, is to meet in Berlin with the Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei. Palestinian officials said the rare meeting was scheduled after Arab leaders complained that the Bush administration had tilted toward Israel with its embrace of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan for a unilateral withdrawal of settlers and soldiers from Gaza.
 A month ago, President Bush provided Israel with sweeping new diplomatic assurances, including that it could hold on to some of the West Bank in any eventual peace deal.
 On Sunday, in an interview with German television, Ms. Rice called for ''movement'' by the Palestinians, including reform of their security services and new ''accountable political and economic institutions.''
 The Bush administration has been pushing the Palestinian leadership to present a plan to manage Gaza in the event of an Israeli withdrawal. But as of late Sunday, the Palestinian leadership was arguing internally over which of about seven competing security plans, if any, Mr. Qurei should present to Ms. Rice, a Palestinian official said. 
 ''He's got nothing to say to her and nothing to offer her,'' this official said. ''The U.S. wants to hear, 'What will you do with Gaza?' ''
 Mr. Qurei planned to give Ms. Rice a stack of documents detailing progress on a ''reform action plan'' and compiling Israeli actions against Palestinians.
 The documents, copies of which were provided to The New York Times, include an eight-page ''executive summary'' of planning for an Israeli departure from Gaza that critiques Mr. Sharon's plan and calls for third-party assistance but provides few of the details Ms. Rice appears to want. 
 Rafah has been a flash point of the conflict partly because Palestinian militants dig weapons-smuggling tunnels from the refugee camp under the Israeli patrols and into Egypt. 
 Along the lane it controls by the border, the army uses a drill to search for the tunnels, which it says are as deep as almost 100 feet underground and as long as 1,000 feet. 
 Over more than three years of intense fighting in Rafah, the Israeli Army has widened the so-called pink zone -- the lane it controls along the border -- to about 250 yards in places, destroying Palestinian buildings with bulldozers, tank shells, and other weaponry. The United Nations agency says that, in all, about 11,000 people have lost their homes. 
 A senior Israeli security official said that, in some areas, the army might now roughly double the lane's width. He said the army was awaiting a recommendation from legal advisers as to whether the action was legitimate, and whether troops could simply tear down buildings or whether they must offer the owners compensation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Israeli soldiers and the family of Zaur Semailayev, 19, one of 13 soldiers who were killed in the Gaza Strip last week, mourned at his burial. (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); AL FATAH (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PETITIONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); HOMELESSNESS (55%) Immigration and Refugees; United States International Relations; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) James Bennet; Peter Hansen; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



385 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Leads Other Issues in Canadian Vote

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 16 

 BODY:
Canada's publicly financed health insurance system has already emerged as the dominant issue of the imminent national election campaign as the major political parties jostle at the starting gate.
 With the population aging, waiting lines for care growing and doctors and nurses becoming sparse, especially in rural areas, opinion polls indicate that satisfaction with medical services has declined in the last decade. But a majority of Canadians still view their universal coverage system with patriotic pride -- seeing it as a national resource that distinguishes Canada from the United States, where tens of millions go uninsured.
 ''There's no other issue of such vital and visceral significance to Canadians,'' said Prime Minister Paul Martin, who has been in office since Jean Chretien stepped down in December and is looking for his own mandate, while touring the country this month. He has promised to ''provide a fix'' that will last for a generation. 
 Mr. Martin has said he will seek a strong election mandate for the Liberal Party to give him momentum to fix the financially ailing health care system during a meeting with provincial premiers this summer. He is expected to call the election next week for late June.
 After 11 years in power, the governing Liberals have slipped badly in the polls because of political scandals. Although they are still likely to retain control of the House of Commons, they could lose dozens of seats in Quebec and Ontario, where they are squeezed between parties of the left and right. Under trying circumstances, they have picked up the banner of health care as their battle cry.
 Mr. Martin is challenged on the right by Stephen Harper, a social conservative from Alberta who leads a newly united Conservative Party. His slim chances to take power have improved because of the scandal over the up to $75 million in contracts awarded to advertising companies that have contributed to the Liberal Party for doing little or no work on a program to counter separatism in Quebec in the 1990's. 
 Under the Canadian health care system, all citizens and residents are covered by government-financed insurance that pays most medical expenses, excluding dentistry and routine eye care. Many of the 10 provinces, which administer the system, also provide various drug benefits.
 Mr. Harper contends that the provinces should be given leeway to experiment with private sector delivery of vital health services -- like CAT scans, M.R.I.'s and elective surgery. That, he says, would save money and shorten waiting times for services that often delay care for nonemergency conditions for months, and even years.
 ''It does not matter who delivers health care; it matters who can receive it,'' Mr. Harper said in a recent speech.
 On the left, Jack Layton, a former city councilman in Toronto and the leader of the revitalized New Democratic Party, released a plan this week that would reverse recent modest privatization of diagnostic services and substantially increase federal aid to the provincial governments that manage the health care system.
 Financial shortfalls causing rationing of medical services have deepened in recent years, with the median waiting period for a referral from a family doctor to a specialist rising to nearly 18 weeks in 2003, according to a recent report by the Fraser Institute, a conservative research group. The report also noted that patients routinely wait almost three months for an M.R.I. exam. Reports of people using influence to jump waiting lines for government-paid treatment are common around the country.
 Breast-cancer survivors recently initiated a class-action suit on behalf of more than 10,000 breast-cancer patients seeking $30 million in damages from 12 Quebec hospitals for requiring patients to wait more than eight weeks for radiation therapy since October 1997.
 Viewing a business opportunity, one Native Canadian group is planning to build a commercial diagnostic imaging clinic on reserve land in Saskatchewan outside the control of the federal or provincial governments. Several Alberta native groups are considering whether to follow suit in a development that could further spur debate on introducing more private enterprise into the health care system.
 The political jockeying over how to fix the system has been fierce, although newspaper columnists and authorities on health care have criticized all three party leaders for not proposing concrete solutions for a system that has grown so expensive it is forcing many provinces to trim their budgets for education and other vital services.
 Calling health care the ''third rail'' of Canadian politics, Jeffrey Simpson, a columnist for The Globe and Mail, recently wrote: ''A party can speak about health care, but it dare not propose anything very far from the status quo. So it will be during the forthcoming election campaign.''
 Mr. Martin, a former finance minister who trimmed federal health care financing in the 1990's, is considered a member of the conservative wing of the Liberal Party. He has suggested that he will compel the provinces to change health care programs in return for fresh federal financing, but he has not stated what changes he will require. 
 When Health Minister Pierre Pettigrew speculated last month that the government could accept more private delivery of health care, Mr. Martin was livid and forced him to recant his remarks the next day.
 Then Mr. Martin was embarrassed when newspapers revealed that his personal physician had founded a chain of private commercial clinics and that he had been treated at a private clinic himself.
 The Liberals are preparing an aggressive political advertising campaign that will accuse Mr. Harper of secretly planning to open the way for more private enterprise in the health care system. One draft of an advertisement says, according to a report in The Globe and Mail, ''If Stephen Harper becomes P.M., you'll have two health care options: Be rich or don't get sick.''
 Mr. Harper, in turn, has been trying to appear to be as close to a man of the people as possible. In an emotional speech in Toronto this week, he defended universal government-paid health care coverage and described how his grandfather suffered great economic hardship years ago caring for his sick father. He also promised to expand federal drug benefits without explaining how he would pay for a program that would cost hundreds of millions of dollars a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); DENTISTRY (71%); SCANDALS (65%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (62%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Elections; Politics and Government; Privatization; Public Opinion; Rural Areas ; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Doctors; Nursing and Nurses

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (89%); PAUL MARTIN (79%); JEAN CHRETIEN (59%) Clifford Krauss; Paul (Prime Min) Martin; Stephen Harper

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (89%); ALBERTA, CANADA (59%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



386 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Praises Gephardt in Effort to Win Over Teamsters

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, May 16 

 BODY:
As Senator John Kerry courted one of the unions most skeptical about his presidential candidacy with promises to enforce the nation's trade agreements, the group's president, James P. Hoffa, offered a simple hint about how to win over his members: tap Representative Richard A. Gephardt as a running mate.
 Mr. Hoffa, president of the Teamsters union, said he had made this suggestion several times, most recently at a private meeting with Mr. Kerry here on Sunday. Calling Mr. Gephardt, who was the Teamsters' first pick before his presidential hopes collapsed in Iowa, a ''fine man'' and a ''great partner'' for Mr. Kerry, Mr. Hoffa said the choice would help not only in Mr. Gephardt's home state, Missouri, but also in the critical battleground of Ohio. 
 Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, praised Mr. Gephardt not once but four times during his speech to some 1,000 Teamsters in a darkened hall at a convention center attached to the Bally's here.
 ''This particular leader is one of those who I think is one of the most decent, one of the most honest, one of the most committed and passionate advocates of the cause of neighbors, real citizens, people in the streets, people in the schools, people working hard to make a living in this country,'' Mr. Kerry said of Mr. Gephardt, who was in the audience and was one of at least three men being vetted as possible running mates. ''He has never wavered, never not understood his mission.''
 The effusive tribute to Mr. Gephardt, who was critical of Mr. Kerry's record on trade and other labor issues during the Democratic primaries, was part of Mr. Kerry's appeal to the Teamsters: He won their endorsement in Wisconsin on Feb. 17, but he is still seeking members' hearts.
 In a statement distributed by President Bush's re-election campaign, Jerry Hood, a former special assistant to the Teamsters president, said, ''Rank-and-file union members that I talk to see John Kerry for who he really is, a limousine liberal who likes to be on every side of every issue, but at the end of the day does not side with working families.'' 
 Mr. Kerry began his remarks here with a personal pitch, revealing that he had been a union member when he took a summer job loading trucks at a store in Somerville, Mass., between semesters at Yale.
 ''Little known to any of you, maybe, is the fact that for a few years I shared membership in the Teamsters, I was a Teamsters cardholder,'' he said. ''I learned how to wheel one of those electric carts around with a pallet filled up to the top, and take those turns, and race with other people.''
 In a 40-minute speech devoted mainly to trade and health care, Mr. Kerry repeatedly denounced the Bush administration, saying it lacked a job-creation plan.
 ''The president talks about steady leadership -- well, steadily losing jobs is not real leadership,'' he said to wild applause. ''Now they're running on the promise that they'll keep doing more of the same. This is like the Red Sox saying, 'Let's see if we can go another 86 years without a World Series.'''
 Invoking the police officers, firefighters and emergency medical workers who worked and died at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, Mr. Kerry said, ''Every single one of them was a member of organized labor and believed in the right to organize, the right to bargain, the right to do better.''
 ''How quick they are to make a speech about heroes, how quick they are to offer words that extol the virtues of the patriotism that was shown on that day,'' he said of unnamed opponents. ''I think the way you honor them and the way you honor our country is by keeping faith with what they fought for.''
 Trade was a sticky issue for Mr. Kerry throughout the primaries, and now he must balance the need to motivate union members, who will become the spine of the Democrats get-out-the-vote effort, while appealing to the more moderate voters likely to swing the election. That conundrum was evident when an applause-less silence fell over the room after Mr. Kerry triumphantly announced one of the core components of his economic plan: -- cutting taxes for 99 percent of American corporations.
 The response was much better when Mr. Kerry, who voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade pacts, said he would not sign the current version of the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or any future agreements that lacked labor and environmental standards.
 Speaking to reporters before the speech, Mr. Hoffa said that Mr. Kerry had told him, ''Trust me, I know we've got to change the way we do business,'' though he did not make any specific promises. 
 ''He's going to be fine on trade,'' Mr. Hoffa said. ''In the future he will have a different record.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry spoke to the Teamsters yesterday in Las Vegas. Though he has the union's endorsement, he is trying to win members' hearts. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FAMILY (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%) International Brotherhood of Teamsters

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; James P Hoffa

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



387 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18; White House Letter

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Addressing Graduates But Speaking to Voters

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Bumiller

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
This is the time of year when President Bush pops up around the country in long, flowing robes, accepts honorary doctoral degrees and informs thousands of raucous college graduates that their future is bright. In other words, it is the season of the presidential commencement speech, an institution that reveals much about the big ideas and election-year politics of a White House that leaves little to chance.
 This year, as in most years, the White House selected a small school, a big school and a military academy for the president's remarks: Concordia University in Mequon, Wis., on Friday, Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge on May 21 and the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs on June 2.
 By tradition, a president always makes a commencement speech at one of the nation's four military academies, on a rotating basis, so the address in Colorado was preordained. As it happens, this year the state is in play politically in the contest between Mr. Bush and John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. But the other two speeches were deliberately chosen, set in states important to the president's re-election campaign -- particularly Wisconsin, which Mr. Bush lost to Al Gore by less than 6,000 votes in 2000 -- and at schools where the chance for large protests was modest to remote. 
 That was not likely to be the case at the University of Texas or Yale, the schools where Mr. Bush's twin daughters will graduate Saturday and May 24. The White House has announced that Mr. Bush and the first lady will not attend those commencements, though the Bushes will be in Austin and New Haven at the time of the graduations for private family dinners. Officials at both schools said there almost certainly would have been demonstrations against the war in Iraq had Mr. Bush turned up in public.
 ''He knows the disruptive force he can be,'' said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. ''He wants the focus on his daughters, not him.''
 The presidential commencement speech is a classic vehicle for a White House to roll out major new themes, or to rise at least above the usual remarks presidents make at fund-raisers and business-group lunches. Still, Mr. Bush insists on being brief. As Mr. Bartlett put it: ''You've got thousands of people waiting to get on with the festivities, and you don't want to have a windbag up there.''
 Mr. Bush spent only 21 minutes on Friday telling nearly 500 graduates of Concordia, the largest Lutheran university in the nation, that they should go out into the world to fight poverty and despair, and that their worth ''comes from bearing the image of our maker.''
 His theme in one of the most religious speeches he has ever delivered was his ''compassionate conservative'' agenda; his message was that ''failures of character'' led American soldiers to abuse Iraqi captives at the Abu Ghraib prison near Baghdad. In a gymnasium of many would-be Lutheran ministers, he got a standing ovation and no words of protest.
 Mr. Bush will talk about the war in Iraq in his remarks at the Air Force Academy, and if recent history is any guide, people should pay close attention. In 2002, Mr. Bush used his commencement speech at the United States Military Academy at West Point to announce, with no advance billing, the most important doctrine of his administration, the policy of pre-emption that led the way to war in Iraq.
 ''If we wait for threats to fully materialize, we will have waited too long,'' Mr. Bush warned on a brilliant June morning, in one of his first uses of the formulation he repeated until United States forces rolled toward Baghdad. ''We must take the battle to the enemy, disrupt his plans and confront the worst threats before they emerge.''
 In May 2001, Mr. Bush told the graduating class of the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., that the Pentagon had to build a modern, flexible military, comments that now seem a forecast of the reduced number of American troops that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said would work in Iraq. ''I am committed to fostering a military culture where intelligent risk-taking and forward thinking are rewarded, not dreaded,'' Mr. Bush said at the time.
 Eighty-five years earlier at Annapolis, another president, Woodrow Wilson, presaged World War I when he told the graduates in a 1916 commencement speech, 10 months before the United States declared war on Germany, that ''you cannot forget your duty for a moment, because there might come a time when that weak spot in you should affect you in the midst of a great engagement.''
 But probably the most famous graduation address was not delivered by a president at all. In 1947, George C. Marshall, President Harry S. Truman's newly appointed secretary of state, went to Harvard for what the State Department advised was a ''routine commencement speech,'' only to propose the huge postwar economic aid program for Europe known as the Marshall Plan. With a speediness that beat even Mr. Bush, Mr. Marshall's speech lasted all of 12 minutes.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush before speaking at the Concordia graduation. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (64%); RELIGION (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (71%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Louisiana; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



388 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: POLITICS

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Iraq Spar Over Who Should Run Corruption Inquiry Into Oil-for-Food Program

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS and JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
Iraq's political leaders are sparring with the American occupation administration over who should investigate possible official and corporate corruption in the United Nations oil-for-food program.
 The dispute pits L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator of Iraq, against the Iraqi Governing Council, whose members Mr. Bremer appointed last year. As the June 30 date for an American power transfer approaches, the two sides have increasingly been at odds over the future political setup. 
 It is not clear whether the present Governing Council will retain any power in a transitional government. 
 Governing Council members said they wanted to supervise any Iraqi inquiry into the oil-for-food program, and had asked the American accounting firm KPMG International in February to assemble possible evidence of alleged kickbacks and bribes paid under the now-defunct oil-for-food program.
 Mr. Bremer has refused to release money to pay KPMG and instead has now approved the hiring of a different company, Ernst & Young, to conduct a $20 million investigation on behalf of a different agency of Iraq's transitional government.
 An adviser to the Governing Council, Claude Hankes-Drielsma, said Friday in a interview from Baghdad that those actions had resulted in ''a serious delay in the inquiry.''
 The United Nations began the oil-for-food program in 1997 to ease the constraints of economic sanctions imposed on Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990. The program permitted Iraq to sell oil in order to buy Iraqis food and medicines, all under United Nations supervision.
 But the program was rife with corruption. The New York Times, citing Iraqi documents and the accounts of Iraqi officials, disclosed in February that Mr. Hussein's government had skimmed billions of dollars from the program by collecting kickbacks from suppliers and illegal surcharges from purchasers of its oil.
 Earlier, a Baghdad newspaper had published a list of hundreds of world political figures, companies, writers and others whom it said had received coupons from Mr. Hussein's government entitling them to sell Iraqi oil under the program. The coupons could be sold at a profit to oil traders. 
 Mr. Bremer has said responsibility for an investigation should rest with the Board of Supreme Audit, a group of Iraqi judges, and he named the board as the sole agency to assemble and delve into documents that could be relevant.
 The board is a holdover from Saddam Hussein's reign, but has been reconstituted by the Americans to serve as an oversight body to monitor government spending and uncover corruption.
 ''All Iraqis we hear from agree that the investigation must be comprehensive, independent, and transparent,'' said Dan Senor, a spokesman for Mr. Bremer, in a telephone interview yesterday from Baghdad. ''This is best left to a body that is politically impartial.''
 The board, after taking bids, decided last week to hire Ernst & Young, a move that was immediately denounced by the Governing Council's British adviser, Mr. Hankes-Drielsma, a former executive of the accounting firm Price Waterhouse.
 He said the decision was intended to ''undermine the sovereignty'' of the Governing Council. Mr. Hankes-Drielsma also suggested that the hiring of a different firm could prevent the prompt disclosure of any embarrassing information about the United Nations at a time when Washington was seeking its help in managing the crisis in Iraq.
 ''It is essential that the I.G.C. is allowed to continue with its investigation without any further delay and without any further stalling by the C.P.A.,'' Mr. Hankes-Drielsma wrote in a letter to Mr. Bremer last week. A copy was given to The Times.
 The disagreement over which agency should run Iraq's investigation raises questions about the effectiveness of any inquiry. 
 Beyond the political question of who should run a potentially explosive investigation, there is the practical question of access to thousands of documents that remain in the hands of individual Governing Council members like Ahmad Chalabi. 
 Mr. Chalabi, a former exile who returned with the strong backing of many senior Pentagon officials, has strongly objected to Mr. Bremer's decision to bypass the council on the oil-for-food inquiry. 
 Mr. Bremer now controls the spending of Iraqi money. Presumably, control over the purse strings would pass to Iraqis after the transfer of sovereignty, and the transitional government, with or without the current Governing Council members, could decide who should investigate the oil-for-food program.
 In addition to the two Iraqi investigations, a third investigation has been authorized by the United Nations Security Council in response to allegations that United Nations employees profited from the sale of Iraqi oil during Mr. Hussein's last years in power.
 Secretary General Kofi Annan set up a panel of outside experts, led by Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman. Panel members met last week in Baghdad with members of the Iraqi Board of Supreme Audit.
 Each of the three sponsors of the separate inquiries has a political stake in the outcome.
 While the Bush administration has disregarded the United Nations in the past, the administration is banking on United Nations help now to devise a plan for a credible Iraqi administration to run the country until elections can be held. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); APPROVALS (67%); WRITERS (67%) Frauds and Swindling; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: KPMG (84%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) Susan Sachs; Judith Miller; L Paul III Bremer

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



389 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; A Monster Hit but No Happily Ever Afters

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: Despite Success of 'Shrek,' DreamWorks Has Work To Do to Woo Wall Street

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 16 

 BODY:
With the release this Wednesday of ''Shrek 2,'' DreamWorks SKG will probably enjoy the benefits of something that has lately been in exceedingly short supply: a hit.
 Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen created DreamWorks in 1994, promising an entertainment powerhouse for the 21st century. But a decade on, the television production business has not had a hit in years, the music division was sold off last year, the Internet ambitions popped with the rest of the dot-com bubble and the live-action movie division is significantly smaller than its major competitors.
 Which is why many analysts and Hollywood executives say the possibility of DreamWorks Animation, the most marketable part of the company, going public this fall may be the best hope of cashing out for longtime investors like the Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen. 
 ''Our eyes were bigger than our stomachs,'' Mr. Geffen said, referring to the company's original dreams. ''We did what we could do. We started a number of things that turned out not to be good ideas. The world has changed a great deal in 10 years.'' 
 Mr. Geffen said DreamWorks had been judged unfairly in an era when the entertainment industry, particularly the music, television and Internet businesses, have gone through tremendous upheavals. And even though it scaled back its ambitions, Mr. Geffen said, DreamWorks has created value in all of its movie businesses, building a library full of quality films like ''Gladiator,'' ''Saving Private Ryan'' and ''American Beauty'' and employing 1,500 producers, writers, animators and others. 
 ''If it isn't as big as we had hoped,'' he added, ''it's successful and it's made all three of us happy.''
 Mr. Geffen declined to comment on any plans to take DreamWorks Animation public. Still two people close to DreamWorks' planning said Mr. Geffen and his partners hoped to do so this spring but worried that selling it to Wall Street would require more heft than could come just from the much-anticipated ''Shrek 2.'' While the division has had its share of hits, there have also been some duds, like last year's ''Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas.'' It is possible they will announce a public offering after the October release of ''Shark Tale,'' another animated film that is stirring high expectations. 
 The decision to spin off the animation division is driven by the diverging interests of the three founders. Mr. Geffen is spending more time on personal pursuits, building a home in Hawaii, although he remains involved in the company's dealings with Wall Street and Mr. Allen. Mr. Spielberg wants to focus on a smaller slate of movies that interest him, and he does not want to deal with the scrutiny that comes with running a public company, two executives said. That leaves Mr. Katzenberg, who has effectively run the strongest part of DreamWorks, the animation division, and who associates say wants to run a public company.
 There is also a financial reason DreamWorks Animation is considering a sale now. As Mr. Geffen put it, DreamWorks must ''find a path to liquidity'' for Mr. Allen by June 2005. That means the company must arrange a way in which he can begin to recoup his $600 million investment if he wants. 
 All of the investors have a combined investment in DreamWorks of near $1.1 billion, Mr. Geffen said, and the company has ample lines of credit.
 Longtime employees are also interested in a public offering, although neither Mr. Allen nor any of DreamWorks's principals initially planned to sell shares, people who have been told of the plans said. (According to two DreamWorks executives, the three founders have never been paid salaries and, in some cases, plowed personal profits made on movies back into DreamWorks.) 
 Recently, Kadokawa Holdings of Japan bought a 2.83 percent equity stake in DreamWorks for $100 million, which would value both the live-action and animation businesses at $3.25 billion. DreamWorks Animations would probably be valued at less than that and perhaps offer shares totaling 25 percent of the company for sale, said an investment banker who has taken media companies public.
 ''Perhaps the company should have gone public 10 years ago, early on in their life when it was all promise and sizzle,'' said Hal Vogel, a media analyst and author of ''Entertainment Industry Economics.'' But, now ''the strongest track record to show to the investing public is to emphasize animation.'' 
 Mr. Vogel and other analysts have not been overly impressed by the performance of the live-action studio. Last year, DreamWorks produced just five films, while this year the number goes to eight, including ''The Terminal,'' starring Tom Hanks, and ''Collateral'' with Tom Cruise. It initially planned to produce 12 films a year. Other studios distribute twice that number.
 In addition, executives hired to help expand DreamWorks' offerings bristled under the direction of Walter F. Parkes, Mr. Spielberg's longtime business colleague who oversees the live-action business and earns a tidy sum as a producer. Several years ago, the Hollywood executive Michael De Luca was brought in to be president of production. He was hired with the notion that he was to bring his relationships with young talent. He quickly found that most projects he wanted to make -- whether with big budgets, medium budgets, art films, action movies or niche pictures -- were turned down, according to people close to Mr. De Luca.
 These people said that among the movies he tried to have made at DreamWorks -- and met with rejection were the coming action thriller ''The Day After Tomorrow'' and the Ben Stiller comedy ''Dodgeball.'' They were made by Twentieth Century Fox. 
 While all studios pass on many projects, the decisions have left DreamWorks with a relatively paltry slate of films. One senior executive who recently left in frustration and would speak only on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Parkes, who oversees films, seemed interested in making only certain, high-quality movies that connected with his sensibilities. 
 DreamWorks even initially passed on its own coming Will Ferrell comedy, ''Anchorman,'' which it helped develop. Mr. Parkes turned down Mr. Ferrell's pitch at an initial meeting, telling his associates afterward that Mr. Ferrell was ''not a movie star,'' according to an executive who was at the meeting. When the comedy ''Old School'' became a hit, DreamWorks bought the project back in a bidding war with Universal Pictures, paying $4 million more than it would have the first time.
 Mr. Parkes declined to discuss how he managed the live-action division and whether it could be part of a publicly traded company. ''I've made it my business not to know much about this,'' he said. When asked how the live-action business has evolved, he said, ''Not a single thing has changed at the studio.'' 
 History shows that few independent studios, no matter how talented the principals, thrive on their own. Once-independent studios like Miramax Films and New Line Cinema are now part of large media conglomerates. Even the publicly traded Metro Goldwyn Mayer, prized for its library of 4,000 films, is in talks to be acquired by a consortium led by Sony Corporation of America. ''The problem with a small studio is managing its cash flow,'' said the analyst Mr. Vogel. ''If money doesn't come in, they can't crank the wheel for another slate of pictures.'' 
 Other like-minded producers and directors, including the Academy Award-winning team of Brian Grazer and Ron Howard, have gone public and found it more trouble than it was worth. In the 1980's, Mr. Grazer and Mr. Howard raised $450 million in a public offering of their production company, Imagine Films Entertainment, but quickly learned that running a company had little to do with the craft of filmmaking. In 1993, Mr. Howard and Mr. Grazer took Imagine private, paying investors $9 a share for a total of $23.4 million and settling a raft of investor lawsuits.
 ''I went into this believing that getting money to make movies would therefore eliminate studio decision-makers,'' Mr. Grazer said, ''but I found I prefer the studio decision-makers to shareholders. It's hard to be in a story meeting and then have to meet with the C.F.O. It is so distracting; it erodes away the scarce real estate in your brain.
 ''I do think with Steven,'' he said, referring to Mr. Spielberg, ''he really just likes storytelling and fixing movies.''
 The one exception in recent years is Pixar, the maker of animated blockbusters like ''Monsters, Inc.'' and ''Finding Nemo'' that has produced consistent winners since going public in 1995. On Nov. 29, Pixar went public at $22 a share weeks after its first movie ''Toy Story'' made its debut. The stock jumped its first day of trading to $39.52 a share. On Friday, Pixar rose $1.21, or 1.9 percent, to $65.72.
 ''We wanted people to see what we could do,'' said Steven P. Jobs, chief executive of Pixar. But if ''Toy Story'' had not done well, he conceded, ''I'm not sure what would have happened.''
 But even Pixar does not fully finance or own its movie like DreamWorks Animation does. Instead, Pixar became partners with the Walt Disney Company. That agreement is expected to end after Pixar delivers its next two movies to Disney. 
 DreamWorks Animation's record, unlike Pixar's, has been mixed, with hits like ''Shrek'' in 2001 which earned $267 million at the domestic box office and last year's bomb, ''Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas'' which earned only $26 million. Still, said Richard Bilotti, a media analyst at Morgan Stanley, ''If DreamWorks can create a consistent profile and prove they have a real franchise, they could go public.'' 
 Mr. Katzenberg declined to discuss DreamWorks Animation's future. But Mr. Geffen said the division had plenty of new projects in the works. Aside from next fall's ''Shark Tale,'' which the company is promoting at the Cannes Film Festival alongside ''Shrek 2,'' as well as NBC's animated television show ''Father of the Pride,'' coming movies include ''Madagascar'' and ''The Wallace and Gromit Movie.''
 And of critics who are more interested in what DreamWorks could have been than what it is, he said: ''This venture is going to go on for the foreseeable future. I care. Steven cares. Jeffrey cares. People do things sometimes because they believe in them. It satisfies things you may not understand.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by DreamWorks Pictures)
(Photo by Threshold Digital Research Labs)(pg. C1)
Jeffrey Katzenberg, left, and Steven Spielberg created DreamWorks with David Geffen, at right. Their animation unit is releasing ''Shrek 2.'' (Photo by Getty Images)
 (Photo by Lee Salem/WireImage.com)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Reason to Toss and Turn''DreamWorks's performance has been sliding in recent years.Graph tracks DreamWorks's share of box office receipts in the United States and Canada as well as the studio's rank since 1997.STUDIO RANK1997: 101998: 71999: 72000: 52001: 102002: 82003: 102004: 14 (through April)(Source by Nielsen EDI)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (89%); ANIMATED FILMS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); WRITERS (64%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (56%) Motion Pictures; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Animated Films; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Dreamworks Skg

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (90%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (90%); DAVID GEFFEN (90%); PAUL ALLEN (78%) Laura M Holson; Sharon Waxman; David Geffen; Steven Spielberg; Jeffrey Katzenberg; Paul Allen

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2004



390 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Orders Judge to Step Aside in Three Asbestos Cases

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
A federal appeals court yesterday ordered the judge overseeing five important asbestos-related bankruptcy proceedings to withdraw from three of the cases because of the appearance of bias.
 Legal experts said the decision would probably force new delays and might cause far-reaching economic repercussions in the long-running litigation, which involves thousands of people who say they were harmed by exposure to asbestos.
 In a 2-to-1 decision, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia ordered Alfred M. Wolin, a federal district judge in Newark, to end his role in the bankruptcy hearings involving W.R. Grace, Owens Corning and U.S. Gypsum because his handling of the cases had the appearance of bias. 
 But the three-judge panel said Judge Wolin had not, in fact, ''done anything wrong or unethical or biased.'' The appeals judges said they would decide later whether to remove him from a fourth case involving Armstrong World, which had asked to be included in any withdrawal order. 
 Legal experts called the order highly unusual in civil legal proceedings and said it would be up to Judge Wolin to decide whether to continue overseeing the fifth case, involving Federal-Mogul Global, which was not immediately involving in the ruling.
 The ruling was requested by Kensington International Ltd., which bought $275 million in Owens Corning bank debt soon after the company sought bankruptcy protection, and Springfield Associates, another holder of distressed debt. 
 Lawyers for the creditors objected to meetings that Judge Wolin conducted with plaintiffs' lawyers and other parties to the case without a record being made for those who were absent. The meetings ''were flawed because no opportunity existed for their adversaries to know precisely what was said'' and what effects might result, the court said. 
 The creditors also argued that the judge had appointed advisers who were not impartial because they represented plaintiffs in a similar bankruptcy case in Newark involving a company called G.I. Holdings Inc. The court noted that the judge and his advisers met with asbestos plaintiffs' lawyers for 325 hours over several years.
 The court said two of the advisers, David R. Gross and C. Judson Hamlin, had a conflict of interest because they represented individuals with asbestos claims against G.I. Holdings. The court said there was a ''close relationship between the future asbestos claimants and the issues in the five asbestos cases'' before Judge Wolin and the G.I. Holdings case.
 Judge Leonard I. Garth, who wrote the order for the appeals panel, was joined by Judge D. Brooks Smith. Judge Julio M. Fuentes dissented, saying that he did not agree that Judge Wolin's advisers, Mr. Gross and Mr. Hamlin, ''had a conflict of interest.''
 Judge Wolin did not comment on yesterday's ruling. Last February, he issued a 102-page opinion denying motions seeking his withdrawal.
 Lawrence Robbins, a lawyer for Kensington, said seeking the withdrawal of Judge Wolin was risky. ''It is unusual for a judge to be recused,'' he said. ''It is unusual for a litigant to seek a judge's recusal. Litigants don't do it lightly. Something must be really quite wrong.''
 The debtholders sought to force Judge Wolin to withdraw after he decided to consolidate the future treatment of commercial creditors together with individual claims. That would have reduced the company's money available to pay debt and increased the potential for fees for plaintiffs' lawyers, a legal expert said.
 ''He was deciding critical issues very much in the interests of plaintiff lawyers,'' said Lester Brickman, a professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University, who has studied asbestos litigation. 
 Mr. Robbins predicted that the case ''will move along now,'' but other lawyers said the cases would be delayed by a year or more.
 Judge Wolin was originally given responsibility for the five asbestos cases in 2001 by the chief judge of the appeals court in Philadelphia. The panel referred the future oversight of the three cases to the current chief judge.
 The dispute involving Judge Wolin has already led plaintiffs' lawyers to increase their settlement demands significantly in many other cases involving companies that are not in bankruptcy proceedings to make up for the delay in resolving the five cases, Mr. Brickman said. 
 Companies have already paid more than $70 billion in asbestos claims, by some estimates, with insurance companies paying one-third to one-half of the total.
 There have been 8,400 defendants in ''tens of thousands of suits,'' said Stephen Carroll, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation research center in Santa Monica, Calif. Besides asbestos mining and products companies, defendants have included air-conditioning and heating companies, specialized contractors and water transport companies, he said. 
 Legislation to create a no-fault trust fund to compensate victims of asbestos-related diseases is stalemated in Congress. Advocates of the legislation say that more than 70 companies have been forced into bankruptcy by lawsuits.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Alfred M. Wolin of Federal District Court in Newark was overseeing five asbestos-related bankruptcy cases. (Photo by The Star-Ledger)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); ASBESTOS (92%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); LAWYERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ETHICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%) Asbestos; Suits and Litigation; Bankruptcies; Liability for Products; Decisions and Verdicts; Asbestos; Credit; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Asbestos

COMPANY: G-I HOLDINGS INC (81%); OWENS CORNING (58%); W R GRACE & CO (57%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Grace, W R, & Co; Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp; US Gypsum Co; Armstrong World Industries Inc; Federal Mogul Corp; Kensington International Ltd; Springfield Associates

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (58%); GRA (NYSE) (57%); FDML (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (81%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (81%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%)

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim; Alfred M (Judge) Wolin

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



391 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Growth in Japan's Economy Surpasses All Expectations
The growth in the Japanese economy exceeded all expectations for the first quarter as a largely export-driven recovery broadened to include a pickup in consumer spending.
 Japan's gross domestic product rose at an annual rate of 5.6 percent, after vigorous growth in the fourth quarter of 2003, when the economy increased at a 6.4 percent annual pace, the fastest expansion in 13 years. The most-recent figures show that Japanese consumers are also contributing to the recovery, which is nearly two years old. [Page C4.] 

Democrats Ask for Reserve Oil
Congressional Democrats are stepping up pressure on the Bush administration to ease gasoline prices by releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, left, is expected to demand that the government release as much as 60 million barrels from the reserve in the next two months. The Bush administration officials, however, plan to keep adding to the reserve. [C11.]

Immigrants Send Billions Home
Caribbean and Latin American immigrants are expected to send a record $30 billion this year to their families and friends in their native countries, according to a new study. [C4.]

I.B.M. and Cisco in Web Phone Deal
I.B.M. and Cisco Systems are expected to announce a joint development project to expand their reach into the Internet telephone market, with Cisco providing the phone and network technology and I.B.M. contributing software and integrating the systems. [C10.]

Promise Is Seen in Biotech Crops
Genetically engineered crops hold great promise for feeding the 800 million people in the world who are chronically hungry, the United Nations food agency said. [C8.]

ABC and WB Unveil Fall Lineups
The fall lineup at ABC will focus on dramas and reality shows, and at WB will reinforce its obsession with hourlong dramas about attractive and angst-ridden teens while adding a reality show. Advertising. [C9.]

Decision Near on Alstom Bailout
The European commissioner for competition, Mario Monti, said that he should be in a position next week to approve the French government's involvement in the rescue of Alstom. [World Business, Section W.]

Kmart Profitable After Cost Cuts
Kmart posted its second consecutive quarterly profit as it cut costs, driving its shares up nearly 10 percent even as sales tumbled after it closed hundreds of stores last year. Another retailer, Lowe's, reported an 8 percent increase in first-quarter profit, helped by sales of higher-priced items like kitchen cabinets and its expansion to big cities. [C2.]

Witness Felt Relief in Deception
James R. Brown, the star government witness at the fraud trial of John Rigas testified that he felt relief, not pride, in fooling people about the finances of Adelphia. [C2.]

Europe to Provide Passenger Data
Bowing to pressure from the United States, the European Union approved a deal to provide records of airline passengers to the American authorities despite angry criticism by members of the European Parliament who said the agreement violated the union's privacy laws. [World Business, Section W.]

Learning From Travel Books
Several travel books provide good advice. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,906.91 down 105.96Nasdaq composite -- 1,876.64 down 27.6110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.69% down 0.08The euro -- $1.2021 up 0.0135The dollar -- 114.33 yen up 0.12Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Housing Construction since October.April figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.3%Graph tracks Kmart's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WITNESSES (83%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); HOME CENTERS (64%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); RESEARCH REPORTS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (69%); ALSTOM SA (52%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (69%); ALO (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



392 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: High Court Rules Against States on Debt

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court made it easier Monday for financially troubled people to go to bankruptcy court to get relief from education loans or other debts. 
 The justices sided with a former Tennessee student who said she could not afford payments on $4,000 in state-backed education loans. 
 The state argued that it could not be taken to federal bankruptcy court against its wishes. Justices agreed 7 to 2, though, to let the student, Pamela Hood, pursue her case. 
 Tennessee had the backing of 48 states that urged justices to protect states from federal court actions by people seeking to avoid paying state judgments. 
 Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, writing for the majority, said a bankruptcy court could decide the narrow question of whether a student loan debt was an undue hardship without implicating state immunity. 
 In a second case, the court ruled 5 to 4 in favor of a couple in Kokomo, Ind., who could not afford the 21 percent interest payments on their truck. 
 They wanted to keep the truck while they reorganized their finances in bankruptcy court. 
 Justice John Paul Stevens, writing for himself and three colleagues, said that judges should decide an appropriate interest rate for someone to pay ''a rate high enough to compensate the creditor for its risk but not so high as to doom the plan.'' Justice Clarence Thomas also favored the couple. 
 Justice Antonin Scalia, in a dissent joined by Justice Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony M. Kennedy, said the couple, Lee and Amy Till, agreed to pay 21 percent interest when they bought the truck, and that was a fair amount for a bankruptcy judge to require.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); VERDICTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); IMMUNITY (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Bankruptcies; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Bankruptcies

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%) Pamela Hood; Lee Till; Amy Till

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Tennessee

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



393 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: When Alzheimer's Steals the Mind, How Aggressively to Treat the Body?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Macie Mull was 82 and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade when she developed pneumonia. Her nursing home rushed her to the hospital where she spent the night, receiving intravenous antibiotics. The next day she was back at the nursing home, more confused than ever.
 Now she was choking on her pureed food; eating was becoming impossible. And so, one Sunday afternoon, the administrators of her nursing home in Hickory, N.C., asked Mrs. Mull's daughter what to do: Did she want a feeding tube inserted? At that point, Mrs. Mull muttered only a few random words and could no longer recognize her daughter. The feeding tube would almost certainly prolong her life, but was it worth it? 
 The question of how aggressive to be in treating late-stage Alzheimer's patients is one of the most wrenching and contentious issues in medicine. For every patient who, like Mrs. Mull, reaches the final stage of the disease, there typically are about five or six family members faced with decisions about whether to authorize medical treatments for patients whose bodies live on though their minds are gone. 
 New research has found that Alzheimer's patients at the end of their lives often receive everything that medicine has to offer.
 For example, a recent study of nursing home patients, by Dr. Susan Mitchell of Harvard and the Hebrew Rehabilitation Home for the Aged, found that those with end-stage Alzheimer's received more aggressive medical treatment -- including feeding tubes, intravenous fluids and antibiotics and hospitalizations -- than cancer patients at the end of their lives.
 But Alzheimer's patients rarely receive the palliative care intended to relieve suffering but not to prolong life that is normal in cancer cases; they make up only 7 percent of people who receive hospice care.
 The comparison with cancer patients is imperfect because cancer patients often die more quickly, and, unlike Alzheimer's patients, they can speak for themselves about their care. But some experts and family members argue that intensive treatment in cases of late-stage Alzheimer's patients is inappropriate, even cruel, and that its costs are excessively high. 
 For family members, costs of treatment are rarely an issue, because they are mostly borne by taxpayers; most medical and nursing home care is paid for by Medicare and Medicaid. So some end-stage Alzheimer's patients get dialysis when their kidneys fail. Infections are treated with intravenous antibiotics. Patients are rushed to hospitals and intensive care units when they fall ill.
 Putting in a feeding tube can cost about $2,000, said Dr. Douglas Nelson, a geriatrician in Hickory, whose practice mostly consists of nursing home patients. Inserting a tube requires a consultation with a speech therapist to verify that food is entering the lungs and an X-ray by a radiologist that requires swallowing barium. The procedure itself is done in a hospital, with an anesthesiologist, and a gastroenterologist or a general surgeon. 
 A feeding tube can prolong life in a nursing home, which quickly dwarfs the cost of inserting a tube. In North Carolina, Dr. Nelson said, it costs $150 a day on average, not counting medication, to care for a patient in a nursing home.
 ''The economics are horrific,'' said Dr. Steven DeKosky, director of the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center at the University of Pittsburgh.
 Dr. Diane E. Meier, a professor of geriatrics and ethics at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan, agreed. ''We are spending a huge amount of money keeping people with irreversible brain failure alive,'' she said. ''If the technology exists, we feel we must use it. Our colleagues in Europe consider what we do bizarre to the point of disbelief.''
 But others contend that to withhold treatment is to hasten death, in effect, playing God.
 ''There are people in my field who have legitimate concerns that we might be too eager to pull the plug,'' said Dr. Christine Cassel, an expert in geriatrics, ethics and end-of-life care, and president and chief executive of the American Board of Internal Medicine. ''Just because someone has Alzheimer's disease doesn't mean their life has no value.''
 With tube feeding and medical treatment for each crisis, end-stage Alzheimer's patients can live on, sometimes for years. Many no longer recognize family members, speak only a word or two, cannot walk or eat, and are prone to pneumonia and repeated urinary tract infections.
 ''We have this sense that you can only be dying for a decent interval, a few months or so,'' said Dr. Joanne Lynn, director of the Washington Home Center for Palliative Care Studies. ''You can't be dying for years.''
 But that is what many demented patients do, Dr. Lynn said, adding, ''They just sort of hang on for remarkable lengths of time.''
 Family members and doctors must decide what steps to take. But many find themselves at a loss. ''People desperately need some guidance,'' Dr. DeKosky said. ''Everyone, including the docs, is saying: 'Tell us what's O.K. Tell us what's appropriate.' ''
 Often, doctors simply treat the medical conditions as they arise, putting off conversations about where, and whether, to draw a line.
 ''Some physicians and health care providers find it difficult to talk about these things,'' Dr. Mitchell said. ''And it takes a lot of time and effort, which for the most part is not well reimbursed.''
 But even when the issue of ending aggressive care arises, family members often disagree about what is going on in the mind of a patient.
 ''A family member sees what they see as a light of recognition, even if other people standing there can't be sure they saw it,'' Dr. DeKosky said. ''On the other hand, a flicker of recognition isn't the answer. It isn't saying, 'Yes, he's still in there.' ''
 In Mrs. Mull's case, her daughter, Patricia Hollar, was torn. ''I walked for a while, and me and the man upstairs did some talking,'' she said.
 Her heart told her that maybe enough was enough, she said. But she feared being too hasty and worried that although she was in charge of deciding her mother's care, her two brothers and sister might think she was condemning their mother to death.
 She had the tube inserted. Many others make that choice too.
 Randy Bryant of Taylorsville, N.C., chose a feeding tube for his mother, Hattie Kuykendall, 89, who has advanced Alzheimer's disease and lives in a nursing home nearby. He didn't hesitate, he said, when his mother had trouble swallowing, began aspirating food into her lungs and developed pneumonia.
 ''With a lot of people, it's an easy decision to just let people go ahead and pass away,'' Mr. Bryant said. ''When it's your mother, you can't do that. Would you let your mom die?'' 
 In other families, there is an unspoken concern that if they halt treatment, they will be judged -- by their friends, others in the family or their churches.
 ''That's a major barrier,'' said Dr. Meier of Mount Sinai. ''Will people accuse me of having killed my mother or not being a caring daughter?''
 As a result, each illness is often viewed by family members and doctors as an isolated problem with a potential solution, said Dr. R. Sean Morrison, a professor of palliative care at Mount Sinai.
 ''We forget the dementia,'' Dr. Morrison said. ''What people see is a potentially curable illness.''
 Burton Federman, 79, of Brockton, Mass., allows intravenous antibiotics for the infections of his wife, Diana, 76, but not a feeding tube. Twelve years after she entered a nursing home with Alzheimer's, she is still able to eat if someone spoon-feeds her. He and his two daughters visit her nearly every day.
 ''She sits in a chair,'' Mr. Federman said. ''She hasn't spoken for several years, and I can't say that when I or any of the family comes that there is any recognition. Occasionally, some sort of guttural sound will come out, but other than that, nothing.''
 Reflecting on a common question, he said: ''People ask us: 'Why do you do this? She doesn't know you. She doesn't speak.' But we know ourselves. As long as there's any breath left, we're not writing it off.''
 In North Carolina, Dr. Nelson reached a crisis of conscience.
 ''The more I started looking at these poor people with feeding tubes, the more guilty I started becoming,'' Dr. Nelson said.
 ''Am I sinning?'' he recalled asking himself, wondering whether it was right to stand by while patients suffered with pain and discomfort from tubes and other treatments. 
 ''I went to medical school to alleviate suffering and I am causing suffering,'' Dr. Nelson said. ''When I die and hopefully go to heaven, God will ask me, 'Did you try everything possible?' I want to say I did.''
 Last November, he introduced a position paper to his state medical society, which it passed unanimously, saying that tube feeding was not good medicine for end-stage dementia patients. He also counsels families. When Alzheimer's patients can no longer eat, Dr. Nelson said, ''My advice is to let the patient die peacefully.''
 But, he added, few families are receptive, and some become angry. More often than not, the feeding tube goes in. 
 Dr. Nelson is an exception, Dr. Meier said. More often, she said, doctors tell a family that the patient will starve to death without a feeding tube, and pressure them to have it put in. Her own view, she said, is that ''families should be counseled that loss of an ability to eat and drink is a sign that the patient has entered the terminal phase of the illness'' and the focus should be on palliative care.
 No one can say for sure whether a feeding tube prolongs life, Dr. Meier said, but ''it's counterintuitive to think it won't.''
 Mrs. Mull had her feeding tube for about four years, until she started to regurgitate food with episodes of choking and coughing.
 Mrs. Hollar spoke to her sister and brothers. ''I said I don't want to put her through any more discomfort,'' she recalled. ''It is time to let her go.''
 Her sister, she said, agreed, but one of her brothers had doubts. ''He was hoping she would just drift off,'' Mrs. Hollar said.
 Finally, she had the tube removed. Two weeks later, her mother died.
 ''It was not an easy decision,'' she said. ''But I don't look back, and I don't ever regret it.''

The Long Goodbye
 Previous articles in this series examined treatments for Alzheimer's disease and the prospects for prevention. The articles remain online at nytimes.com/health.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Randy Bryant and his mother, Hattie Kuykendall, who has advanced Alzheimer's. He choose a feeding tube for her. ''With a lot of people, it's an easy decision to just let people go ahead and pass away,'' he said. ''When it's your mother, you can't do that.'' (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 Patricia Hollar and a photo of her mother, Macie Mull, who suffered from Alzheimer's for years. She had a feeding tube for four years. (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); FAMILY (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); CANCER (89%); PNEUMONIA (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); PALLIATIVE CARE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HOSPICE (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); RADIOLOGY (77%); GERIATRICS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); ETHICS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); SPEECH THERAPY (71%); DIALYSIS (71%); DEATH & DYING (64%); MEDICARE (60%); MEDICAID (58%) Alzheimer's Disease; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research; Aged; Finances; Pain; Alzheimer's Disease; Ethics; Nursing Homes; Life-Sustaining Support Systems, Withdrawal of; Families and Family Life

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%) Harvard University; Hebrew Rehabilitation Home for Aged

PERSON: Gina Kolata; Susan L (Dr) Mitchell; Douglas (Dr) Nelson

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Hickory (Nc); North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



394 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Unnatural Weather, Natural Disasters: A New U.N. Focus

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
As 1999 drew to a close, two weeks of continuous rain drummed down the sides of the Avila Mountains in northern Venezuela. The soil was so saturated that landslides and mudflows careered down the mountain, washing away towns, dams and bridges and claiming thousands of lives.
 Although this was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recent decades, it was far from unique. Last year, 700 floods, storms and other weather calamities claimed 75,000 lives worldwide and caused about $65 billion in economic damage. By far, most of the victims -- about 98 percent -- were in the poorest nations. 
 But officials at the World Meteorological Organization, the world's weather agency, say that in the future that toll can be cut in half. The little-known United Nations agency, with 187 member countries, began a drive in March to improve early weather warnings and disaster preparations, and to build up weather agencies in developing countries.
 Michel Jarraud, who took over as secretary general of the Geneva-based agency in January, said sweeping improvements in forecasting had made it possible to notify people of impending disasters in time to evacuate them or shore up their defenses.
 ''Five-day forecasts today are as good as two-day forecasts were about 20 years ago,'' Mr. Jarraud said. And they can be broadcast almost instantaneously, almost anywhere in the world.
 China, for example, used such forecasting when its coast was hit by Typhoon Winnie in 1997, said Gao Lanying, a meteorologist with the Chinese weather agency. Accurate forecasting allowed the government to broadcast typhoon information hourly, to recall fishing boats to port, to evacuate 1.4 million people from risky and low-lying areas, and to move grains and other materials. The death toll was 239, rather than thousands, she wrote in a recent paper analyzing China's meteorological disasters.
 While forecasting has improved, Mr. Jarraud said there was a worrisome gap between developed countries and developing ones. Poorer nations often lack the means to use weather data to blunt the effects of natural disasters and to avoid disruptions to food and water supplies.
 The cost of natural disasters and their negative effects on development have attracted the attention of the World Bank, which no longer thinks of disasters as a purely humanitarian issue. Natural disasters can decimate a country's economy. Venezuela's 1999 mudslides cost the country $3.2 billion. Honduras lost 41 percent of its annual gross domestic product when Hurricane Mitch barreled through in October 1998, according to the World Bank. 
 ''This is not just a natural phenomenon and there's nothing to do about it,'' said Margaret Arnold, a hazard management official at the bank. ''There is a lot you can do.''
 Mr. Jarraud said such devastating losses made it urgent to take action. ''We have to get out of our box and look at things from a wider perspective to help these countries,'' he said.
 By contrast, industrialized nations incorporate weather predictions into their emergency preparedness efforts. ''We don't have situations such as countries like Bangladesh, where a natural disaster can kill thousands of people,'' said Dr. Ronald D. McPherson, executive director of the American Meteorological Society. ''Those people would have been moved away in advance.''
 One reason the United States loses relatively few lives is experience; it has had to learn to cope with some of the world's worst weather. ''We have about as many hurricanes as China, as many winter storms as Russia and Europe, thunderstorms and virtually all the world's tornadoes plus big distances here, which make everything vulnerable to disruption,'' said William Hooke, director of the meteorological society's atmospheric policy program. 
 But Dr. McPherson noted that developing countries often lacked preparedness plans. ''Part of it is lack of money and lack of experience,'' he said, ''and it's lack of political will.'' Many politicians do not understand what modern forecasting can do, he said, and some cultures are fatalistic about such catastrophes.
 Venezuela's government has promised to put a high priority on developing a rainfall monitoring network, coupled with an early warning system for the Avila Mountains, where thousands still make their homes along banks carved out by the mudflows or on crumbling hillsides.
 ''Perhaps we cannot prevent landslides, flash floods and debris flows,'' said Dr. Jose L. Lopez, an engineering professor at the University of Central Venezuela who speaks for the government on weather issues. ''But we can be much better prepared to prevent these natural hazards from becoming disasters.''
 Mr. Jarraud acknowledged that his initiative, which does not have its own budget, could not be accomplished overnight. He has set a 15-year timeline for improving early warnings and disaster preparedness, and bolstering national weather agencies.
 A first goal is to make sure that all countries have access to observations of extreme weather events that are collected by weather satellites, and assistance in incorporating such data into their emergency planning system. He also wants to help train weather service personnel, transfer useful technologies and educate the public about disaster preparedness. 
 In research, he said, every nation would benefit from more systematic studies and observations of weather phenomena. The world needs to know more about ''how and why natural hazards happen, and how they can escalate into disasters,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials at a U.N. agency hope that their project to improve weather warning systems can save lives lost to natural disasters like Hurricane Mitch, which left these scenes behind in Honduras in 1998. (Photographs by Associated Press)Chart: ''VIOLENT WEATHER''Top estimated death tolls since 1994.WORLDWIDEHurricane Mitch, Central America, 1998: 10,866+Cyclone, India, 1999: 9,392Flood, Venezuela, 1999: 9,000+Flood, China, 1998: 4,150Flood, Papua New Guinea, 1998: 3,000IN THE U.S.Chicago heat wave, 1995: 800-900Eastern drought, heat wave, 1999: 500Southern drought, heat wave, 1998: 200East Coast blizzard, flooding, 1996: 190(Sources by World Almanac, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); LANDSLIDES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); TYPHOONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HURRICANES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); DISASTER PLANNING (72%); OCEANOGRAPHY (69%); MARINE VESSELS (64%) Weather; Accidents and Safety; Forecasts; Satellites; Finances; Third World and Developing Countries; Floods; Weather; Security and Warning Systems; Disasters

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (83%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%) United Nations; World Meteorological Organization

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson; Michel (Sec Gen) Jarraud

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); HONDURAS (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



395 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grows 3.7% in Mexico

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 17 

 BODY:
Mexico's economy grew 3.7 percent in the first quarter compared with the first three months of 2003, the Finance Ministry said on Monday, the strongest expansion since 2000. 
 The figure, which was above expectations, was welcome news to President Vicente Fox, who has faced a stagnant economy and rising unemployment since taking office in December 2000. 
 Despite the recovery in the United States, Mexico's economy appeared not to be responding, even though Mexico sends 90 percent of its exports north of the border. Gross domestic product grew 1.3 percent last year. 
 Analysts said the economy took a long time to react because of its close ties to American manufacturing, which was the last sector to benefit from the recovery in the United States. In March, Mexican exports of manufactured goods rose 20.8 percent and industrial production rose 6.5 percent. 
 Seasonally adjusted, the economy grew 1.32 percent over the last quarter of 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TRENDS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Production

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



396 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Facing the Consequences of Not Going 

BYLINE: By KEN GORDON

 BODY:
Sometimes, you just have to say no when your boss asks you to take a business trip. Sometimes the boss understands, sometimes not.
 Tricia Rice's didn't. Until recently, Ms. Rice worked for a corporate events company in California whose clients were mainly in the automotive industry. Ms. Rice was hired as an assistant at a newly created division with the understanding that she would eventually be given a management job. Until then, she was told, her responsibilities were answering the phones, handling office supplies and helping the vice president for sales do his job.
 Then she was asked to take part in a ''ride and drive,'' a company marketing exercise in which a group of employees spend several weeks following an 18-wheeler loaded with new cars from city to city to demonstrate them to automobile salesmen. 
 Ms. Rice, 33, refused. At her previous job, for a company that beamed rock concerts into movie theaters around the country, she handled all of the satellite uplink coordination and hired and supervised editors, she says, and she considered the tasks she was now being asked to do, like putting up signs and running errands for others in the group, beneath her. Also, she was not wild about the idea of traveling around the country for 10 weeks.
 When she told her supervisor that she did not want to take the trip, Ms. Rice says, he was straightforward. ''There's really nothing for you to do if you don't want to go on the road,'' she recalled him telling her. They agreed to part ways amicably, however, and he allowed her to continue coming to the office while looking for new job. Today, she is a project manager at the Hype Council, an online marketing company.
 So, was she at fault? Well, yes. ''This organization was probably not a good fit for Tricia Rice, but she could have known it sooner by asking more questions at her interviews about the seasonality of their work,'' said Barbara Reinhold, a psychologist, director of the Executive Education for Women program at Smith College and author of ''Free to Succeed: Designing the Life You Want in the New Free Agent Economy'' (Plume 2001).
 Of course, Ms. Reinhold added, the boss was at fault, too. ''He should have asked about her willingness to travel periodically,'' she said.
 Bosses are more often forgiving of their employees' reluctance to take to the road, especially if subordinates explain their reasons calmly and try to negotiate an alternative.
 That is what Kerry Lutz, a 36-year-old project manager at a telecommunications company based in Texas, did. On a Friday in March, he said, his manager told him he would need to spend the next week in Kansas City.
 The problem was that his wife and young son were flying to Chicago the next day for a family reunion, leaving him behind to care for the home and the dog. (The company does not reimburse employees for boarding dogs or hiring house sitters.) Rather than beg off the trip altogether, it was agreed that Mr. Lutz would fly a week later. But the weekend before the rescheduled trip, a close friend died, and Mr. Lutz had to attend the funeral the following Tuesday, which forced him to postpone a number of meetings and further complicated his travel plans. 
 Fortunately, Mr. Lutz covered his work with a conference call, and eventually made the trip.
 Also fortunate was a change in corporate policy so that travel plans need be approved by only one supervisor. ''When I don't have to explain my decisions to multiple layers of management, everything works better,'' he said. 
 Some business executives balk at travel demands out of simple fear of flying. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Alyson O'Mahoney, a senior vice president at Robin Leedy & Associates, a public relations firm in Mount Kisco, N.Y., had second thoughts about agreeing to attend a client convention in Las Vegas.
 ''Already not very fond of flying pre-9/11, and having my husband and brother-in-law in close calls downtown that day, I was irrationally frightened to get on the plane,'' Ms. O'Mahoney, 33, recalled. She struggled to overcome her dread, worried that if she failed to make the trip she would disappoint her firm and her clients and possibly jeopardize her career. For a while, she even considered quitting.
 Eventually she told her boss, ''Listen, I can't do this; what are the options?'' To her relief, her boss agreed to talk the matter through. ''I don't think my boss was very happy that I didn't want to get on the plane, but she understood my position and worked with me to help solve the problem,'' Ms. O'Mahoney said.
 Finally, they hit on a solution. She would go to Las Vegas, but by Amtrak, and she had to travel on weekends. ''It took three and a half days each way in what could have been a five-hour flight, but there was little choice for me at the time,'' she said.
 She has since resumed flying, even making a round trip to London last November and to Omaha in April, though she eases her nerves by taking an antianxiety drug.
 If anything, she says, her 9/11 jitters have enhanced her career. Ms. O'Mahoney says that her Amtrak story has become something of a water-cooler legend and that her boss ''sees this as a token of my level of dedication.''
 ''Who else is crazy enough to spend five days on a train for their job/client?''
 Mike Paul was not so lucky. Back in the early 90's, Mr. Paul was a crisis consultant at a New York public relations firm when, one Friday afternoon, his boss asked him to catch a flight to Florida ''with only an hour's notice'' to help a client who had a crisis.
 But Mr. Paul, 40, had made plans months earlier to attend a family gathering that weekend and had even received permission to leave early that day. No matter; his boss was furious when he said he could not oblige.
 ''He implied that there would be ramifications for my decision,'' Mr. Paul said. Rather than argue, Mr. Paul asked if another qualified employee could travel in his stead, and a replacement was grudgingly found. Unfortunately, the substitute showed up at the meeting the next day hung over. ''The client called my boss and filled him in on his 'drunk consultant,''' Mr. Paul said.
 After his run-in with his superior, Mr. Paul decided he no longer wanted to work at the whim of somebody else. In 1994, he founded MGP & Associates PR, a firm in Manhattan. He doubles his hourly fee for weekend work and stashes all those earnings into a ''family vacation and entertainment fund.'' He adds that as his own boss, he can really think about his family when making business decisions.
 Family also affected the travel plans of Misha Katz, co-founder and president of Vigix, a movie and video game rental company in Brookline, Mass. Last year, when Mr. Katz was a principal at a Cambridge, Mass., venture capital firm, his boss strongly encouraged him to fly to Texas for the closing of an investment.
 The newly married Mr. Katz declined, explaining to his startled superior that, according to Jewish tradition, a husband must ''actively see to it that his wife is happy'' and that ''he should not be separated from her during the first year of marriage.''
 ''Since I wasn't able to fly to Texas back and forth in the same day, or have my wife come with me, I never made the trip,'' said Mr. Katz, who is 25. Like Mr. Paul, he found a substitute to go for him, and like Ms. O'Mahoney, he says he eventually won his employer's respect for his forthright attitude.
 But now that Mr. Katz runs his own business, has he traveled away from his wife? The answer is no. ''We're still in our first year of marriage,'' he says. ''Our anniversary is May 25.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alyson O'Mahoney, a public relations executive in Mount Kisco, N.Y., told her boss she would not fly to Las Vegas, so she went by Amtrak. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); SALES MANAGEMENT (76%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); WOMEN (69%); WRITERS (67%); POP & ROCK (53%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (52%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Ken Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



397 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Latin Migrants to U.S. Send Billions Home

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17 

 BODY:
Caribbean and Latin American immigrants across the country, in states like Wisconsin and Kentucky as well as Texas and California, are expected to send a record $30 billion this year to their families and friends back home, according to a study released on Monday. 
 Those remittances by immigrants, who are often holding down two jobs and earning less than $20,000 a year, have become a hot topic when the subject of development is discussed at the highest levels of government. It will be an important issue at the summit meeting of seven of the world's largest economies, plus Russia, in Sea Island, Ga., next month. 
 At a time when the world's wealthy nations give just $52 billion in foreign aid to the poorer countries, the $30 billion sent home by immigrants in increments of $200 to $300 is substantial. It is more money than these countries receive from foreign aid and in foreign investment. 
 The money goes to private families, not public development projects or directly to commercial enterprises, and international financial institutions as well as development agencies want to figure out how that money can be used to finance projects that will have a broader economic impact. 
 The Inter-American Development Bank, other financial institutions and now the Bush administration are pressing to reduce the costs of transferring the money, to persuade large banks to accept these remittances and to make it easier to increase the size of small businesses and other enterprises in these countries.
 ''We want to bring this out of the shadows so people understand the critical contribution these hard-working people are making,'' said Donald F. Terry, manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund of the Inter-American Development Bank, which commissioned the study. 
 Already, the development bank has helped persuade companies to cut the costs of transferring money, to about 7 percent from 15 percent to 20 percent. The goal is to cut that in half, Mr. Terry said. 
 The survey by the bank was the first to measure how much money immigrants in individual American states sent home. Originally, the survey planned to cover 25 states but expanded to 37 and the District of Columbia when researchers discovered that a relatively small number of immigrants in Kentucky -- 26,068 in total -- were able to send home $53 million.
 ''We kept adding states as we realized the flow of remittance was substantial throughout the country, even where there was a relatively small number of immigrant workers,'' said Sergio Bendixen, president of Bendixen & Associates, who ran the survey for the development bank.
 Immigrants in six states sent more than $1 billion. The top two were California, with $9.6 billion, and New York, with $3.56 billion. Over all, at least 61 percent of the 6.6 million foreign-born workers from Latin America and the Caribbean send money home. 
 In an era of globalization and a growing disparity between rich and poor in this hemisphere, families have made immigration part of their survival strategy, sending at least one relative north to earn money, legally or illegally. Over the last decade, the size of the remittances has doubled. One of every four adults in Central America now receives remittance money. 
 Deputy Treasury Secretary Samuel W. Bodman said on Monday that helping cut costs for immigrants transmitting their money home was a top priority for the administration and the governments of other wealthy nations at the meeting next month. 
 There are social consequences to these remittance arrangements that often go unmentioned. With a breadwinner in the United States, families can be divided. Young children are sometimes left with grandparents. And adults working two jobs have little time to help the children they may have brought along. 
 ''There are huge social costs that people don't want to talk about,'' said Julia Sweig, senior fellow for Latin America at the Council on Foreign Relations. 
 Officials said this migration would only increase now that the Western Hemisphere has become an integrated, if informal labor pool.
 ''This is the human face of globalization,'' Mr. Terry of the Inter-American Development Bank said. ''I don't think it's anything to celebrate that so many of a country's workers have to leave to earn a living. What we can do is see that they are treated better.''
 Roughly one-third of the workers lack the proper documents to work legally in the United States. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is supporting legislation introduced last week by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, that would make these workers less vulnerable to employers.
 Ana Avendano, associate general counsel at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that by threatening immigrants with expulsion, employers are able to pay them low wages and require long hours that violate laws. 
 ''We are working to help these immigrant workers send their remittances home without having to pay a fee,'' Ms. Avendano said, ''and at the same time we are working to improve the conditions of the most vulnerable workers because that helps all workers.''


CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about immigrant workers from Latin America who are expected to send $30 billion back to families and friends this year misstated the total number of such workers in the United States. It is 16.6 million, not 6.6 million.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ramon Cruz, who left Cuba three years ago, counting out cash in Miami last week for a $300 wire transfer to his mother, who still lives there. The remittances will be a topic at next month's Group of 8 meeting. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Chart/Map: ''Miss You. Stop. Here's Money. Stop.''Workers from Latin America and the Carribean will send more than $30 billion to their families at home in 2004, according to a new study.Map of the United States shows the total that the workers are expected to send back.California -- $9.61 bil.New York -- 3.56Texas -- 3.18Florida -- 2.45Illinois -- 1.53Largest averages sent per workerMaryland -- $2,897North Carolina -- 2,864Alabama -- 2,797Georgia -- 2,743Virginia -- 2,671(Source by Inter-American Development Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) Immigration and Refugees; Finances; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) Inter-American Development Bank

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (92%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%) Latin America; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



398 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 6; SOCCER

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Player With Plenty of Exposure

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
One of the incongruities of global commerce is that a soccer player from Sweden who plays for the top club in England can model underwear for an American sportswear company on a gigantic billboard in Times Square. 
 Freddie Ljungberg was up there in his skimpy Calvin Klein underwear -- knickers, as the British say -- looking down at the masses the same way his Arsenal club is looking down at the rest of English soccer after going undefeated (26-0-12) in the Premier League. The Gunners are the first league team since Preston North End in 1888-89 to go through a season unscathed (called the Invincibles, they played only 22 matches and won 18). Arsenal has gone 39 league matches without losing and is close to Nottingham Forest's record of 42, set from November 1977 to December 1978. 
 ''We're very happy with the season, at least in the league,'' Ljungberg said in a telephone interview from London before Saturday's 2-1 victory at home over Leicester City. ''Looking back at the season, it's unbelievable because there are usually dips in the season, times when you don't play well, some days when you get lucky. The biggest difference is that we have been more consistent.'' 
 After a tumultuous start -- a loss to Manchester United in a contentious Charity Shield match -- Arsenal rolled behind 30 goals from the league player of the year, Thierry Henry. The team's triumph in the league was overshadowed somewhat by its ouster in the quarterfinals of the European Champions League by its crosstown rival, Chelsea, and its failure to defend its F.A. Cup title; it lost to Manchester United in the semifinals. (Ljungberg was the leading scorer in Cup play with four goals in five games.) 
 ''Winning the league is the big thing, but we also have to show that we can do well in Europe,'' Ljungberg said. ''And in the F.A. Cup, the atmosphere is not like any other game. But when I think back, this season is not one I will forget easily.'' 
 Ljungberg, 24, is the face -- but mostly the body -- of Calvin Klein men's underwear worldwide. He has appeared barely clothed, if you can call it that, on billboards from Manhattan to Hong Kong and will be in the United States (San Francisco and New York) this week to help launch a new line of fashion skivvies. After the trip, Ljungberg -- who is on a postage stamp in Sweden, in uniform, not in underwear -- will join his national team in Portugal for next month's European Championships. Ljungberg made his international debut in 1998 against the United States. 
 The billboard in Times Square has come down, but Ljungberg still laughs when asked about it. 
 ''I guess you don't see a European soccer player in his underwear in Times Square every day,'' he said.

METROSTARS
Pursuing a Defender
 For the second week in a row, the MetroStars started their ''two mon'' Caribbean connection up front -- Cornell Glen and Fabian Taylor. But Coach Bob Bradley continues to be concerned by his defense. The MetroStars have given up the most goals in Major League Soccer (13 in 6 games), but perhaps a greater concern has been the failure of the defense to stimulate the offense (Chris Leitch is the only defender with a point this season). 
 The club thinks the answer could be the left-footed Pablo Brenes, a 21-year-old Costa Rican who could play on the flank in defense or in midfield. Brenes, a member of his country's national team, which will go to the Olympics in Athens, has finished his contract with his club, Perez Zeledon, but he has been prevented from coming north because of the restrictive FIFA transfer window. 
 The next transfer period in M.L.S. is not until Aug. 15, and if the MetroStars are forced to wait, Brenes will be at the Olympics, his talents on display for European scouts. 
 ''He is free, M.L.S. is happy with the deal, the MetroStars are ready, the only problem is U.S. Soccer and FIFA rules,'' Jan Schiefloe, Brenes's agent, said in a telephone interview. ''It's crazy to force a player to be unemployed three months because of this rule. How is he supposed to support his family? It simply doesn't sound right. It is a restraint of trade.'' 
 In an e-mail message late yesterday, Schiefloe said M.L.S. and U.S. Soccer were working together to resolve the matter with FIFA. ''We are heading in the right direction,'' he said.
 According to Jim Moorhouse, a spokesman for U.S. Soccer, a player who is a free agent during a transfer period (the last one ended in the United States on March 31) but who is unable to sign with a new team would be eligible to sign outside the transfer window. But because Brenes was still under contract in March, that provision does not apply. He could appeal directly to FIFA for an exemption.
 ''We go on a case-by-case basis,'' Moorhouse said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''And I really can't comment on a pending player transaction.''

Corner Kicks

LIBERTADORES CUP -- The first leg of the quarterfinals will be played tomorrow (second legs next week). The matchups: Sao Caetano versus Boca Juniors; Santos versus Once Caldas; River Plate versus Deportivo Cali; and Sao Paulo versus Deportivo Tachira. The semifinals will be on June 9 and 16, the finals on June 23 and 30.

FUTSAL -- The United States will play Honduras in Milwaukee today and Thursday in a Concacaf qualifier on the road to the world championship next fall in Taiwan. The team will be led by Greg Howes, the most valuable player last season in the Major Indoor Soccer League. Howes had 57 goals for the Milwaukee Wave, which is coached by Keith Tozer, the coach of the futsal team. ''The players we have are very talented, fast and skillful,'' Tozer said in an e-mail message.

IN THE SUMMERTIME -- ChampionsWorld, the outfit promoting this summer's United States tour of some of the top European club teams, added two games to its schedule yesterday. Porto, a finalist in the Champions League, will play two games: July 30 against Liverpool in the Skydome in Toronto; and Aug. 1 against Galatasaray of Turkey at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. Charlie Stillitano, the company's chief executive, said yesterday that he had offered to arrange a match between the M.L.S. All-Star team and Manchester United, but he was turned down by the league.

FIFA -- A dispute over terms of a drug-testing agreement between soccer's worldwide governing body and the World Anti-Doping Agency could result in soccer being dropped from the Olympics this summer in Athens. FIFA said yesterday that it would cover all expenses and offer $15 million in prize money to the six teams that will play in the World Club Championships in December 2005 in Tokyo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); LINGERIE (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%) Soccer; Models (Professional); Apparel; Lingerie and Underwear

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Arsenal (Soccer Team); Klein, Calvin, Inc

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (54%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%)

PERSON: Jack Bell; Fredrik Ljungberg

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWEDEN (91%); PORTUGAL (79%); EUROPE (78%); HONG KONG (70%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



399 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Bombing Sends Markets Sharply Lower

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stock prices fell around the world yesterday, and oil prices continued to climb after the leader of the Iraqi governing council was killed by a suicide bomber.
 Sharp declines early in the day abated somewhat by the close on Wall Street. Still, the three main American stock market gauges finished the day at new lows for the year. 
 New highs during the day for crude oil, at $41.85 a barrel, and gasoline, at $1.421 a gallon, left investors uneasy that rising energy costs could slow consumer spending and economic growth and reduce corporate profits. 
 While the United States stock markets sank, the main market indexes in Germany, France and Japan approached new lows for the year. In India, the stock market plunged 11 percent, its biggest one-day loss since 1992. Investors are uncertain about changes in the country's economic policies as a new coalition government is formed under Sonia Gandhi. [Page W1.] 
 The dollar fell 1.1 percent against the euro, but was little changed against the yen. As they fled stocks, investors drove up bond prices in the United States, seeking a safer place for their money. Though interest rates have recently surged, the demand for bonds pushed their yields down yesterday.
 Investors in global stock markets fear that rising interest rates in the United States, higher oil prices and the possibility of slowing growth in China could undermine economic recoveries. Inflation, which is accelerating in the United States and China, is also worrying investors.
 Economically sensitive stocks, which suffer when investors are concerned about slower growth, fell sharply yesterday, with the Morgan Stanley cyclical index down 1.8 percent. Among the biggest decliners were Alcoa, off 3.6 percent; Ford Motor Company, down 2.9 percent; and Caterpillar, off 2.8 percent. Other companies that could be hurt if consumers are reluctant to spend are Federated Department Stores, which owns Bloomingdale's and Macy's, whose stock fell 3.2 percent, and Tiffany, which was off 3 percent.
 Airline stocks also dropped as companies acknowledge that higher oil prices are cutting into profit. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, plunged 4.3 percent, while Delta Air Lines was down 1.2 percent. 
 Bombings in Iraq and the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal are raising doubts about the United States' ability to build a new government in Iraq, analysts said. Bombs damaged four British bank branches in Turkey just before the arrival of Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
 Another negative sign for Wall Street came yesterday with the report from the Treasury that foreign investors sold $13.4 billion of American stocks in March, a record amount on a net basis. Although it is not known if foreigners are still selling American stocks, the selling could reflect a significant decline in foreign investors' appetite for American stocks. 
 The negatives have at least for now offset the sharp gains in corporate earnings in the United States and the strong jobs data that suggests the American economic recovery will be sustained.
 ''The domestic side still looks good,'' said Joseph Liro, an economist and market analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, referring to the economic backdrop in the United States. ''The big weight here is geopolitical events and you have to put oil into that.''
 He said that a drop in the price of oil would help stock markets, but he did not expect one. The members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, including Saudi Arabia, are said to be already pumping close to their capacities.
 The price of crude oil slipped slightly from its peak, finishing at $41.55 a barrel for June delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the fourth consecutive record close since trading of the contract began in 1983. The June contract for gasoline finished at $1.417 a gallon.
 Stuart Schweitzer, global markets strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management, said the question was whether the market had fallen enough in valuation to offset the expected rise in interest rates. ''My answer is not quite low enough,'' he said. ''I am a cautious optimist, but now is not quite the time to put your money to work'' in stocks. 
 In Europe, the main market indexes fell about 1 percent. In Asia, Japan's Topix index dropped 3.5 percent. Emerging markets were undermined even more, as South Korea's composite index dropped 5.1 percent and Brazil's Bovespa index fell 2.6 percent. Emerging markets have been hurt by higher interest rates and by investors moving quickly to reduce their risk in their portfolios. 
 In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 11.60 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,084.10. It is down 2.5 percent for the year and 6.4 percent from its 2004 high of 1,157.76 on Feb. 11. The Nasdaq index fell 27.61 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,876.64 and was down 6.4 percent for the year and 12.9 percent from its 2004 high of 2,153.83 on Jan. 26. The Dow Jones average declined 105.96 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,906.91 and was down 5.2 percent for the year and 7.7 percent from its 2004 high of 10,737.70 on Feb. 11. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 4.69 percent in late trading, from 4.77 percent Friday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 20/32 to 100 15/32.
 Similar fears of climbing oil prices, rising interest rates in the United States and the uncertain geopolitical situation sent global markets down more sharply a week ago, with Japan's Topix index down more than 5 percent and the main European indexes off more than 2 percent. Wall Street's main gauges fell 1.1 percent or more.
 The rebound after the early declines yesterday in Europe and America -- which saw France's CAC 40 index down as much as 2.3 percent and the S.&P. 500 off as much as 1.5 percent -- may mean that some investors have already factored bad geopolitical news into their outlooks.
 Still, Mr. Liro said, that ''the driver of a massive sell-off is going to be on the international side.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.737	99.325	High Rate	1.040	1.335	Investment Rate	1.058	1.363	Low Rate	1.010	1.300	Median Rate	1.025	1.325	Total applied for	$42,091,729	$41,286,546	Accepted	$24,751,442	$20,737,112	Noncompetitive	$1,388,336	$989,575	

Both issues are dated May 20, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Aug. 19, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Nov. 19, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Traders were busy at the New York Mercantile Exchange, where the price of crude oil slipped slightly from its peak, finishing at $41.55 a barrel for June delivery. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Traders at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday reacted as prices fell after the killing of the leader of the Iraqi governing council. Sharp declines in share prices abated later in the day. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C11)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since Jan. (Source by the Bond Buyer)(pg. C11)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C11)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C11)Chart: ''Yesterday's change''INDIA: Mumbai -- 11.14%SOUTH KOREA: Composite -- 5.14%FRANCE: CAC -- 1.39%JAPAN: Nikkei 225 -- 3.18%GERMANY: DAX -- 1.28%HONG KONG: Hang Seng -- 2.74%UNITED STATES: S.&P. 500 -- 1.06%BRAZIL: Bovespa -- 2.63%BRITAIN: FTSE -- 0.87%CANADA: TSE300 -- 0.79%MEXICO: Bolsa -- 1.85%AUSTRALIA: All ordinaries -- 0.52%SWEDEN: OMX -- 1.49%(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); AIRLINES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); POLITICS (73%); EURO (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); RETAILERS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); BANK BRANCHES (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Bombs and Explosives; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Records and Achievements; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Consumer Behavior; International Trade and World Market; Stocks and Bonds; Elections

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); MACY'S INC (53%); ALCOA INC (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (54%); M (NYSE) (53%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (68%); TONY BLAIR (52%) Ezzedine Salim; Sonia Ghandhi; Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); FRANCE (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); TURKEY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%) Iraq; Germany; France; Japan; India; Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004



400 of 678 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: For Conservatives, Mission Accomplished

BYLINE: By John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge. 
John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, writers for The Economist, are the authors of ''The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America.''

 BODY:
Last week Washington was the site of the biggest birthday party you never heard of. The occasion was the 40th anniversary of the American Conservative Union, and the guest list included all the grandees of right-wing America, from Senator Mitch McConnell to Phyllis Schlafly to Wayne LaPierre of the National Rifle Association to, of course, President Bush. 
 In his speech, the President promised that ''for our blessed land the best days lie ahead,'' and was greeted with several foot-stomping ovations and cries of ''Four more years!'' But the real flavor of the event was captured by what the president called the ''fine group of decent citizens'' gathered at the tables in front of him -- members of the N.R.A., the Heritage Foundation, the Family Research Foundation and countless other groups that make up Conservative America. One man wore a tie with the Ten Commandments; women carried handbags in the colors of the American flag; and when the narrator of a film about the conservative union used the phrase ''right-wing nuts,'' the room roared its approval. 
 This is the type of partisan anniversary that only one side of America pays attention to -- the side that watches Fox News Channel (the host for the evening was that network's Tony Snow). Yet every Democratic politician in the land could have learned a great deal by attending. It would be going a little far to say that the A.C.U. ought to have celebrated under a banner labeled ''Mission Accomplished,'' but it is because of such groups that the right has out-organized, out-fought and out-thought liberal America over the past 40 years. And the left still shows no real sign of knowing how to fight back.
 To consider the ground that liberals have ceded, one must look back at the union's founding in a cramped living-room in 1964, a few days after Lyndon B. Johnson had thrashed the first fully paid-up conservative presidential candidate, Barry Goldwater. Back then, the self-styled ''Mr. Conservative'' seemed to come from another planet. ''When in all our history,'' asked the political theorist Richard Hofstadter, ''has anyone with ideas so bizarre, so archaic, so self-confounding, so remote from the basic American consensus got so far?''
 Fast forward to today. A Republican Party that is more conservative than Mr. Goldwater could have imagined controls the White House, Congress, many governors' mansions and a majority of seats in state legislatures. Back in 1964, John Kenneth Galbraith smugly proclaimed: ''These, without doubt, are the years of the liberal. Almost everyone now so describes himself.'' Today, a Gallup poll tells us, twice as many Americans (41 percent) describe themselves as ''conservative'' than as ''liberal'' (19 percent).
 Democrats have come up with all sorts of excuses, from the evils of Richard Nixon's ''Southern strategy'' to the ''stolen'' election of 2000. They usually ignore the fact that the right has simply been far better at producing agenda-setting ideas. From welfare reform in Wisconsin to policing in New York City, from the tax-cutting Proposition 13 in California to regime change in Baghdad, the intellectual impetus has, for better or worse, come from the right. As President Bush bragged at last week's party, the right is ''the dominant intellectual force in American politics.''
 Yet many Democrats insist this will change once Mr. Bush is ejected from the White House. This shows how little they have learned. First, the right has a history of advancing its agenda under Democratic executives (welfare reform came about under Bill Clinton). More important, it has organized itself for a much longer battle. Whenever it has been forced into retreat -- as after Watergate -- the flame has burned eternal at places like Heritage, the American Enterprise Institute and the Cato Institute, and at their smaller cousins in virtually every state.
 Brains are nothing without political brawn. That's why the American Conservative Union disciplines Congressional Republicans by rating them according to their purity (the average rating for House Republicans has risen from 63 percent in 1972 to 91 percent in 2002). Yes, liberal environmental and abortion rights groups rate members of Congress too, but those figures are more effective as fodder for conservative attack ads than as a way to keep Democrats in line. 
 There are other battalions of foot soldiers, too. Americans for Tax Reform, which had a table at the dinner, rigidly enforces the party's pledge not to raise taxes. Focus on the Family (which has a campus in Colorado Springs so big that it has its own ZIP code) concentrates on promoting family values. Sometimes these groups feud -- Cato libertarians have plenty of differences with Focus on the Family's social conservatives -- but as all the back-slapping at the party showed, they share a sense of movement. 
 In theory, liberals have more than enough brain and brawn to match conservative America. The great liberal universities and foundations have infinitely more resources than the American Enterprise Institute and its allies. But the conservatives have always been more dogged. The Ford Foundation is as liberal as Heritage is conservative, but there is no doubt which is the more ruthless in its cause.
 Now, perhaps, a few liberals are waking up to the task that confronts them. Americans Come Together, a group backed by the billionaire George Soros, already has 20 offices and 450 employees in Ohio alone. John Podesta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, has founded the Center for American Progress, which Democrats are calling ''the liberal Heritage.'' But it still seems that liberals are purely reactive. Barry Goldwater may have been strong meat, but at least he had ideas. By contrast, Americans Come Together's entire raison d'etre (like that of the John Kerry campaign) remains negative: to send Mr. Bush back to Texas. 
 ''There is no such thing as spontaneous public opinion,'' Beatrice Webb, the great British leftist, once said. ''It all has to be manufactured from a center of conviction and energy.'' The American Conservative Union is just one of many such centers on the right; it's a lesson that liberal America seems unable to learn. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article yesterday about the success of conservative groups in shaping American politics referred incorrectly to a liberal political group financed by George Soros. It is America Coming Together, not Americans Come Together. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%) United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics); Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (90%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (57%) John Micklethwait; Adrian Wooldridge; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

 
