

201 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Business Chickens Are Coming Home to Roost 

 BODY:
Long Island lost hundreds of people when the World Trade Center collapsed. It also seems to have lost its way.
 New Jersey is quietly moving to accommodate hundreds of companies made homeless by the attack. New Jersey officials recognize that corporations are now embracing decentralization so that any future attacks cannot wreak the type of strategic damage done on Sept. 11. Stephan Schultz of the Jersey City Economic Development Commission told a recent edition of The Financial Post, "It will change the skyline of New Jersey." 
 In contrast, Long Island is silent in the wake of this economic transfer of power "Displaced Companies Call, but Few Sign Leases," L.I.@Work, Sept. 30 . 
Regional business organizations are stymied in making the case for Long Island because there is little leverage they can offer in an environment where local zoning laws throttle orderly economic growth and new commercial construction. In towns like Oyster Bay, the Town Board actually delights in railroading new projects. In Garden City, once the retail hub of the county, village fathers are preventing the construction of a simple parking lot to serve rehabilitated office space. Meanwhile, leadership from Nassau is in the deep-freeze, awaiting the swearing-in of a new county executive in January. 
Oyster Bay and similar communities hostile to business should expect these reactionary policies to come back and haunt them as a stinging recession saps economic growth, destroys tax revenues and erodes new investment. Even sales taxes are expected to take a pounding. Other townships that have a record of partnering with business, like Hempstead and North Hempstead, should stretch their vision and consider what roles they can play in the Long Island leadership vacuum that has developed in a post-W.T.C. environment. Similarly, a public-private task force should be created immediately for the express purpose of determining how Long Island should navigate now that major corporations are pondering their options for space, location and manpower.

DESMOND RYAN
Executive Director
Association for a Better
Long Island
Hauppauge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SALES TAX (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ZONING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RETAILERS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



202 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
The Bear Choice: Big Lure, Big Risk

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
A HANDFUL of mutual funds chalked up spectacular returns in the third quarter -- a couple of them even doubled their investors' money -- in stark contrast to the average diversified mutual fund, which had negative total returns of more than 16 percent.
 Did the winning managers know of wonder stocks that were overlooked by their competitors? No. Their portfolios, known as bear funds, are set up to have opposite performances from market indexes like the Nasdaq 100 or the Standard & Poor's 500. The funds accomplish this not by putting money into stocks, but by investing principally in futures contracts, options contracts, swaps and other financial instruments and by engaging in short sales -- in other words, the same instruments and techniques that many institutional investors use to hedge their portfolios. 
 The two leaders of the last quarter, Rydex Venture 100, which climbed 116.97 percent, and ProFunds UltraShort OTC, which surged 116.92 percent, seek to provide daily returns that are double the inverse performance of the Nasdaq 100. 
Gazing at the recent returns of these funds, many investors may find them alluring, but many investment advisers and fund managers are offering advice that makes them sound a bit like park rangers: Don't feed the bears.
"One of the problems with the whole fund industry is that people buy into the last quarter's or last year's hottest performers," said Charles Creighton, a financial planner at Equity Services Inc. in Broomall, Pa. "Many of these funds use aggressive leveraging techniques. There is a lot of risk attached. That does not mean there aren't people who can't use them and get that return, but they're not for the Main Street investor. They're for the aggressive investor."
Dan Rivera, head of global equities at American Express, said that while anyone who bought into a bear market fund in early 2000 could now reap profits, "to commit to the funds at this point is to fight the Fed."
"Monetary and fiscal policy are both stimulative," he said, and "the biggest determinant of equity prices is interest rates, not earnings."
The stock market could drop an additional 10 percent or 15 percent, he said, but "I would argue that at some point, and my view is sooner rather than later," it will turn back up, possibly suddenly and steeply. Under those circumstances, the bear funds would all plunge.
Companies that manage these funds contend that they are offering individual investors a valuable tool for ironing out risk in their investing, but they do not view them as the place to invest an entire portfolio.
Michael L. Sapir, chairman and chief executive of ProFund Advisors in Bethesda, Md., said: "We have 26 bullish funds and three bearish funds. We're not intrinsically bearish."
"The bearish funds are intended to be short term -- to allow you to hedge a portfolio," he added, just as institutional investors and professional portfolio managers do. 
"Most people don't know how to use futures or options, so this allows individual investors to do something they know how to do -- buy a mutual fund," to offset the risk in their traditional stock funds, Mr. Sapir said. "It's for the middle-tier investor," he added, not for beginners.
The funds are also for investors who think that the market will fall, he said. If you want to short the market, even for just a week or a month, the funds can provide a convenient way to do so, he said, because "there is no entry fee, no exit fee and no restriction on how long you have to hold."
Charles J. Tennes, a senior portfolio manager at Rydex Funds, said the funds could be used to mold a portfolio and to lower its overall level of risk. "Investors don't focus enough on risk-adjusted return," he added.
Mr. Tennes said an investor might sell 20 percent of a long portfolio and put half the proceeds into Rydex Venture 100 and the other half into cash or short-term Treasuries. That would result in only 60 percent as much risk as in the original portfolio, he said, and the cash position would mean added flexibility.
"I wouldn't recommend anyone go all short," he said.
A LONG-TERM investor who did focus his holdings on a bear fund would have had substantial losses. ProFunds, for example, reports on its Web site that a $10,000 investment in the UltraShort OTC fund at its inception in June 1998 would have fallen to just $385 by March 31, 2000. But it would have climbed back to $1,279 by Sept. 30 this year.
Some investment professionals say the high volatility contributes to their skepticism that using such funds to fine-tune a portfolio will work as well in practice as in theory. Hedging limits a portfolio's upside potential, as well as its downside, they add.
Michael Stolper, an independent investment adviser whose firm, Stolper & Company of San Diego, works with institutions and affluent individuals, said the bear funds "are trying to straddle the fence to limit damage, but short-selling is one of those activities that is very difficult to get right."
He advises people to put their money into cash, bonds and stocks, either directly or through mutual funds, rather than into short positions. 
Peter Cundill, president of Cundill & Associates in Vancouver, British Columbia, and portfolio manager of the Ivy Cundill Global Value fund, had a similar view. "Common stocks wisely chosen have done well over a period of time," he said, "and I suspect that will be true of the future." 
Mr. Cundill, who has 30 years of experience and manages $1.8 billion in assets for institutional and individual investors, offered another argument against taking a bearish position: "If you can borrow money, then over time markets will be all right," he said, and credit is readily available now. "It's only periods like 1974 that you cannot borrow that markets are hazardous to your health," he added. 
Another value manager who is skeptical of bear funds is John C. Holden, vice president and senior portfolio manager at Fort Washington Investment Advisors in Cincinnati and manager of the Touchstone Value Plus fund. Because of the market's plunge after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, investors may well be tempted to go into a bear market fund, he said, but "that is an emotional response to an external shock to the financial system."
"America is a very resilient country," he said "We will get out of this."
History is on his side. Richard J. Nash, chief market strategist at Victory Capital Management, a unit of KeyCorp of Cleveland, said that research has shown that the market usually rebounds within six months of a crisis.
The terrorist attacks have pushed "economic recovery farther out into the future," Mr. Nash said, but he expects strong growth by mid-2002. And he expects markets to anticipate that growth, recovering early in the year. 
Investors in bear funds, of course, risk losses when the market turns back up, Mr. Holden said. "It is impossible to be agile enough to time the top or the bottom," he added. 
The money needed to invest in the funds could be a barrier for some individual investors. ProFunds has a $15,000 minimum for self-directed individual accounts. Rydex has a $25,000 minimum for individual investors; the minimum applies to an overall account, however, not necessarily to individual funds. Smaller investments may be possible through investment advisers and some brokers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael L. Sapir of ProFund Advisors says the firm's bearish funds are intended for short-term investing. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) Graph: "Feeding the Bears"Bear market funds, intended to have opposite performance from market indexes, soared in the last quarter. Grap shows the weekly performance through Sept. 28 for the ProFunds UltraShort OTC, a leading bear fund and the Nasdaq 100 index. (Source: Morningstar Inc., Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EQUITY SERVICES INC (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



203 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2581 words

HEADLINE: Office-Building Plans Come Off the Shelf 

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
THE need for prime office space as a result of the destruction of 13 million square feet of office space and damage to 16.5 million more square feet in the attack on the World Trade Center has caused developers and brokers to focus attention on long-dormant development projects in Midtown and elsewhere.
 Douglas Durst, president of the privately owned Durst Organization, said he intended to proceed with a 2-million-square-foot 50-story tower at the northwest corner of 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas starting next year, even though he does not yet own all the land at the site. Because the site is diagonally across from Bryant Park, Mr. Durst is calling the proposed building One Bryant Park. 
 Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said he is eager to see a 1.1-million-square-foot office tower rise over the Port Authority Bus Terminal at 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue. Since he is also vice chairman of the Port Authority's board, he is in a position to help make this happen, although he said he cannot make the private sector developers build before they have signed an anchor tenant. 
Other building sites identified by real estate executives as receiving renewed interest include one at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street and a parking lot on the eastern side of Eighth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets.
Immediately to the south of the parking lot, The New York Times Company has recently reaffirmed plans, first announced last year, to build a new headquarters facing the bus terminal between 40th and 41st Streets. If the necessary agreements to proceed with construction are obtained, The Times would occupy about half of the 1.37 million square feet of space, with the rest available for commercial rent by The Times's development partner, the Forest City Ratner Companies.
But some real estate executives say there is a lot of office space coming back to the market as companies shrink their operations, and they say a wave of new building may not be justified. "Anyone drawing long-term conclusions from short-term shortages of space is making a mistake," said Michael T. Cohen, the president of Williams Real Estate, a brokerage and services company.
He said a lot of space has flooded onto the market since Sept. 11 as companies that had been thinking of subletting unneeded space suddenly decided the time was right. According to an analysis by Williams of information provided by CoStar Realty Information, which tracks market data, a total of about 850,000 square feet of space in Manhattan was on the market two weeks before the attack. Two weeks afterward, the amount of space available ballooned to more than 6 million square feet, and the amount continues to remain high, company officials said.
"The next 12 months are absolutely predictable -- the feeding frenzy will continue," Mr. Cohen said. "But it is an artificial period that does not tell you what will happen later." The loss of the World Trade Center buildings would suggest that new construction is justified. But, he said, if the economy continues to weaken, enough sublet space may pour on to the market to satisfy continuing demand. In addition, real estate executives say, much of the damaged space near the Trade Center is likely to be repaired and available for use within three to six months -- well before any new construction could be completed.
Lenders are likely to discipline overeager developers by requiring that they have creditworthy tenants signed up before providing construction loans, said Peter Pattison, a real estate consultant. "I don't see speculative development in the short term," he said. "Very few lenders want to fund speculative projects. What they want to see is buildings packaged with tenants."
The city is likely to see a flurry of what Mr. Pattison calls "cheap development." He said developers will announce projects, complete with building plans and renderings, and start through the city's laborious approval process, hoping to sign up an anchor tenant before the moment of truth arrives for the actual decision to build.
He said a well-financed developer could afford to put a few million dollars into design and permitting before facing the hundreds of millions it costs to build a skyscraper. And doing this preliminary work reduces the time between when tenants sign leases and when they can actually move into a completed structure.
Not all of the attention is focused on New York. Jersey City has been established as an alternative to downtown Manhattan, and building projects there may get under way if tenants commit to the location. Developers like Mack-Cali and Hartz Mountain and the securities firm Goldman Sachs have sites on or near the waterfront that could be developed as well.
One of the first buildings to come out of the ground in Manhattan is likely to be a boutique office building at 505 Fifth Avenue, at the northeast corner of Fifth and 42nd street, said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, the brokerage and services company. "That site can be cleared fast -- there's nobody in those buildings," she said of the site, partly occupied by a one-story former bazaar-like shopping complex.
The building would be of modest size by New York standards, with 275,000 square feet in a slender building rising 25 or 26 stories. Kurt Eichler, executive vice president of the developer, LCOR, which is based in suburban Philadelphia, said he expected to sign a principal tenant before commencing construction.
The company is also involved in a commercial project in Queens West where as much as 5 million square feet of office space could be built near the East River facing the United Nations. LCOR has also been designated as the developer of the 300,000-square-foot Air Train building in downtown Jamaica, Queens. About half the building will be occupied by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Mr. Eichler said, with tenants needing easy access to Kennedy Airport the likely candidates for the rest of the space. No starting date has been set for that project. 
Mr. Eichler said companies displaced from the Trade Center area had for the most part solved the problem of finding temporary space to stay in business. He said now they are considering more long-range questions, such as whether it makes sense to concentrate all their operations in one location.
He said development in Manhattan and other boroughs will give companies "an opportunity to diversify their assets, yet keep their people in the city."
One significant consideration is that most of the buildings destroyed at the Trade Center were modern and up to date technically, said Bruce Mosler, president of United States operations at Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company.
In real estate circles, the most modern and efficiently laid out buildings are termed Class A, while older and less efficient buildings fall into the Class B or C categories. Companies displaced by the attack may have settled for Class B or C space as an emergency measure but may want to find a Class A space for a more permanent home, Mr. Mosler said.
"Forty-four percent of the space that was destroyed was Class A, which means we have a shortage of Class A space in Manhattan," Mr. Mosler said. "With very little Class A space available, there is a need for development, although it should be done on a selective basis." 
Barry Gosin, the chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, a brokerage and management company, said the destruction in the Trade Center area would increase "pressure for development." Although there has been discussion about rebuilding the center, city officials have said it will take up to a year just to clear the site of the rubble from the collapsed buildings.
Since nothing is likely to be built there for a while, Mr. Gosin said, there is increased attention on the few sites in Manhattan that are well located and can be easily cleared for new construction. He said the most likely development prospects were the proposed 37-story tower over part of the Port Authority Bus Terminal on the west side of Eighth Avenue between 40th and 42nd Streets and a parking lot owned by members of the Milstein family on the east side of Eighth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets, directly north of the New York Times site. Since the Times Company will be the principal occupant of its building, it is not usually included on lists of possible development projects seeking an anchor tenant.
THE best site of all, Mr. Gosin said, is the Durst site on the eastern section of the block bordered by 42nd and 43rd Streets and Broadway and Avenue of the Americas, whose western end is now occupied by a 1.6-million-square-foot-tower, 4 Times Square, that was developed by Durst.
Mr. Durst's plans are important because, real estate executives say, he is one of the few developers in the city who can finance a building project with internal funds and without securing an anchor tenant in advance. Indeed, 4 Times Square was begun as a speculative building, although an anchor tenant, the Conde Nast publishing group, signed on shortly after work began. 
Mr. Durst's family owns most of the site, which is about two-thirds of the block. But he does not own three parcels. One, owned by the Maidman family, is the site of a largely abandoned 22-story brick office tower, now said by the Maidmans to be undergoing conversion for residential use.
Another, an L-shaped tract facing both the Avenue of the Americas and 42nd Street is owned by the brothers Joseph and Ralph Bernstein, who have had a long and complicated relationship with Mr. Durst and his late father, Seymour. Mr. Durst has said he expects to work out a deal for the third parcel, on the corner of the block, with its owners, the Rosenberg family.
Mr. Durst said he expected to begin demolition of the buildings he owns late next spring or early in the summer and said he was "pretty confident we will have most of the block." He said he had discussed with Mr. Gargano the possibility of using the state's power to condemn property as a way of assembling the block and said the response was "very receptive." He said he expected special legislation to be passed next year to waive the state's environmental quality review, "which causes big delays in condemnation."
For his part, Mr. Gargano said he had talked to Mr. Durst but would say only that Empire State Development "will explore ways to streamline the development process" for the Durst project.
But he added that the state agency would focus "on those projects already in the design process or where ground has been broken already." He said it was important to get companies now in temporary space into permanent locations in the city.
Mitchell Maidman said the building his family owns on the site that is largely surrounded by Durst holdings "is under development." He added, "We plan to capitalize on the great opportunity in Times Square."
As for Mr. Durst's suggestion that condemnation might, subject to legislative action by Albany, be possible, he said: "It will be interesting to see how the months play out. What process is there for condemning our site? It is outside the Times Square development district."
Joseph Bernstein said he believed Mr. Durst was "using muscle" to try to build the largest possible building. As it is, he said, "he could build a pretty big building without going all the way to Sixth Avenue."
Nevertheless, he offered to "sit down with Mr. Gargano and Durst to work things out for the benefit of New York." A real estate executive said Mr. Durst could build a 1.8-million-square-foot structure on the land he currently owns; to get to 2 million square feet he would need the additional parcels.
The proposed Durst building may have special appeal to state and city officials eager to keep financial-industry companies in the city. Mr. Durst said the lower floors of One Bryant Park would have large spaces, suitable to replace some of the trading floors lost at the Trade Center. "We are looking for a financial institution as an anchor tenant," he said.
MR. DURST said he also intends to press ahead with plans for a site he has leased between 57th and 58th Streets, 11th and 12th Avenues. The first phase of the project is a six-story, 500,000-square-foot building in the middle of the block that would be a data center, housing computers and telecommunications switching equipment.
Although demand for these facilities has dropped recently, Mr. Durst said he believed the building will be attractive because it will have its own gas-fired electrical generating equipment and will be independent of the Con Ed grid. This, he said, will eliminate the need for backup generators and fuel tanks to assure continuity of operations.
Mr. Durst said he may proceed later with an office building on 11th Avenue and said he has had discussions with city officials about building a light rail line along the avenue to provide mass transportation for what he said was a developing office corridor.
Another developer said that he could, once an anchor tenant is obtained, be under way within two months. The site is 9 Metrotech South, the last building in the 5.3-million-square-foot Metrotech complex in downtown Brooklyn.
"Our plan is to start the new building within 60 days," said Bruce Ratner of the Forest City Ratner Companies, the developer of Metrotech. "We will be the first building out of the ground since the disaster."
He said that the original plan for 9 Metrotech South was for a 500,000-square-foot building but that he would seek approval for a 700,000-square-foot structure because of an anticipated increase in demand. He said work would start upon the signing of a large tenant while seeking approval for the taller structure. City officials have promised to expedite the often-convoluted process, he added. 
Mr. Ratner said he doubted there would be much new construction in Manhattan without what he called "deep incentives" from the city. He said land costs, construction costs, taxes and other expenses mean a developer has to charge annual rents of $70 to $80 a square foot to justify a project. "A lot of the people who were displaced from the World Trade Center," he said, "are not in the $70 to $80 category."
He said incentives offered to companies that move employees from Manhattan or out of state to designated locations like downtown Brooklyn are worth $15 to $20 a square foot. This effectively cuts the cost of Class A space there 60 percent below comparable space in Manhattan.
But, he said, development sites are difficult to find or assemble and executing projects is difficult. "It is very hard to do a building if you haven't done it before," Mr. Ratner said.
Ms. Tighe said that the difficulties of replacing the office space lost at the Trade Center are real and that state and city officials will have to lend assistance to private developers if they want the new space built quickly in New York.
She said the state needs to use its power to take land to help to complete the assembly of building sites. The city needs to establish ways to get construction material into the city and particularly Manhattan. Concrete cannot currently be delivered to Manhattan because inspections of the delivery trucks outlast the useful life of the product.
"The other big issue is real estate taxes, which are extremely daunting," Ms. Tighe said. "Only two or three projects in recent years have been built without some kind of tax break."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Durst Organization proposes a 50-story office tower at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, diagonally across from Bryant Park. (Fox & Fowle Architects) (pg. 10) Graph: "Keeping Track: A Rush to Bring Space to Market" shows Manhattan office space for rent from 8/28/01 to 9/27/01 (pg. 10) Map of Manhattan (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); RATNER COS (64%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



204 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Opening A Road Others Avoided

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH HARRIS

 BODY:
DONALD H. MUHLENKAMP stands apart from the Wall Street crowd. To develop his own investment style, "I had to step outside of Wall Street language," Mr. Muhlenkamp said. 
 Shareholders have benefited from his idiosyncratic approach. Mr. Muhlenkamp's $400 million portfolio, called the Muhlenkamp Fund, has gained 11.33 percent a year, on average, over the three years through Sept. 30, according to Morningstar Inc., compared with an annualized gain of 2.04 percent for the Standard and Poor's 500-stock index. The fund was down 8.57 percent for the 12 months through Sept. 30, compared with a decline of 26.61 percent for the S.& P. 
 Mr. Muhlenkamp, who works from Wexford, Pa., a suburb of Pittsburgh, has distanced himself from the financial district both in personal style and in his approach to investing. At 57, he rides a 1984 Harley-Davidson with noise and power that remind him of the tractors on his father's farm in western Ohio. Mr. Muhlenkamp said his investing reflected the lessons he learned there: Crops do not grow every month. Not every seed sprouts. Weed early.
Not all of Mr. Muhlenkamp's training, however, was in farming. He received an engineering degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He got his start as an analyst in 1968, when classmates from Harvard asked him to join their investment firm, Berkley Dean & Company, in New York City.
In 1970, he moved to the Integon Corporation, an insurance holding company in Winston-Salem, N.C. At the time, many money managers discounted inflation, calling it an economic problem of the past. Speaking of his experience from 1968 through much of the 1970's, he said he had to set his own standards for what companies are worth in various market climates.
HE also drew upon his education as an engineer, which taught him that when the basics are understood, everything else falls into place. "In the late 1960's," he said, "business spoke a different language than Wall Street." While business looked at return on equity, for example, Wall Street focused on growth, he said. 
Mr. Muhlenkamp has honed his investing style by managing private accounts for individuals and institutions since founding Muhlenkamp & Company in 1977; the firm started the mutual fund in 1988.
Like other value investors, he focuses on finding good companies at reasonable prices. Unlike some of his peers, however, who may rely mainly on low price-to-earnings or price-to-book ratios in companies, Mr. Muhlenkamp demands above-average returns on equity; these days, that means greater than 14 percent annually. But in the current climate, he also looks for a price-to-earnings ratio that is below the percentage figure for return on equity. Consumer cyclical and financial stocks have filled that bill lately.
Return on equity reflects a company's strength and potential for growth, he said. If the return is higher than the growth rate as measured by sales and earnings, free cash flow is more likely. "When I try to translate this for people, we tell them we want to buy Pontiacs and Buicks when they go on sale," he said. "We'd like to buy Cadillacs, but they don't go on sale very often." 
Mr. Muhlenkamp resists labels that categorize his fund by style or market capitalization (Morningstar, for example, calls it a mid-cap value fund.) Unlike fund groups that let shareholders slice and dice their investments in a broad range of narrowly defined funds, Muhlenkamp & Company runs just this single fund -- and it may hold companies of any market capitalization.
He also bucks the trend by refusing to organize stocks into generally accepted sectors. For instance, he does not group computers or telecommunications infrastructure stocks in the technology sector. Instead, he considers them capital goods stocks, which lag behind the market because their purchase depends on corporate management decisions, he said. 
"You learn more if you ignore those labels," he said. "We found out a long time ago that if you use different language, that it's easier to think of things in different terms than the crowd."
Mr. Muhlenkamp also incorporates macroeconomic indicators into his investment decisions. He looks for changes in the public mood, sometimes polling his own shareholders to gauge consumer attitudes. "Every once in a while, you have to review the big picture -- we call it the climate," he said. "Every once in a while the climate changes, and when that happens it overwhelms the business cycle."
These days, Mr. Muhlenkamp's analysis points to a business-cycle slowdown that has been worsened by the terrorist attacks last month. But he said the factors that pushed the United States economy into a depression in the 1930's -- rising interest rates, taxes and tariffs -- were absent now.
Bill C. Nygren, who runs the Oakmark and Oakmark Select funds for Harris Associates, an investment management firm in Chicago, said he and many other value managers used indicators like return on equity to evaluate funds, just as Mr. Muhlenkamp does. But Mr. Nygren does not incorporate macroeconomics into his analysis because he does not believe that he has any special skills that let him predict the future better than other investors can. 
"Even though that's not how we invest," Mr. Nygren said of Mr. Muhlenkamp's approach, "certainly we accept the point of view that that's a valid way of investing."
Mr. Muhlenkamp imparts his views to shareholders regularly -- at seminars and in newsletters. That frequent communication and his straightforward manner helped to attract one investor, William F. Gilfillan Jr., 20 years ago, before Mr. Muhlenkamp started his mutual fund. Mr. Gilfillan, now 76, and his wife, Carol K., 74, hired him to manage their portfolios. 
Mr. Gilfillan, who lives in Bethel Park, Pa., said he was satisfied with his Mr. Muhlenkamp's investment performance and strategy. And he likes the direct-from-the-horse's-mouth style of providing information. "That's a key factor of why we're with him," Mr. Gilfillan said, praising Mr. Muhlenkamp for his "accountability" to clients.
After the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, Mr. Muhlenkamp was quick to update the firm's Web site (www.muhlenkamp.com) for shareholders, telling them that he saw no reason to shift his investments significantly. Through the end of August, the portfolio held its largest stakes, about 20 percent each, in consumer cyclical and financial stocks, which offset each other, he said. If consumers do not spend freely, then interest rates should decline, benefiting financial stocks, he said. "We think having a leg in each camp gives us a little bit of a hedge," he said.
That is an example of another element of Mr. Muhlenkamp's investing style: not relying 100 percent on any single factor. "You have to make sure whatever the hell happens -- whether it's markets going irrational, whatever -- that you're still around to survive it," he said. "So we don't go all the way out on a limb."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald H. Muhlenkamp with his Harley-Davidson. As a fund manager, he likes to buck investment trends. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (72%); BERKLEY DEAN & CO INC (66%); INTEGON CORP (66%); MUHLENKAMP & CO INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



205 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Amid Uncertainty, A Junk-Bond Divide

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
HIGH-YIELD bond prices fell sharply in the third quarter as investors fled risky investments. And the drop in price pushed up yields to unusually high levels compared with those of Treasury securities. 
 Even so, advisers and fixed-income portfolio managers are divided over whether investors should put money into mutual funds of high-yield, or junk, bonds, particularly in such uncertain times. 
 Because junk bonds are considered risky -- they are loans to companies and municipalities that have the least likelihood of repaying them -- the sector has been hit hard by the market decline and the shaky economy. 
In recent weeks, prices of junk bonds have fallen as yields have soared above 13 percent. As a group, high-yield funds have been the only one of 11 taxable fixed-income categories tracked by Morningstar to have a negative performance for the 12 months ended Sept. 30, declining 9.7 percent.
Still, some experts say investors who can stand the risk should not abandon the category. "The economy at the moment is not a pinnacle of perfection, and there are going to be defaults," said M. John Sterba, chairman of Investment Management Advisors Inc. of New York. "But markets tend to overreact, and yields are attractive now. I would encourage investors not to give up and hide money under a mattress."
Junk bonds are those rated Ba1 and below by Moody's Investors Service or BB+ and below by Standard & Poor's. Most high-yield funds concentrate their holdings in securities rated B or BB, but some go as high as AAA, while others go as low as securities with no rating.
Mr. Sterba says he does not recommend high-yield funds for every client. But for those who can tolerate risk, he suggests investing 5 percent to 10 percent of a long-term portfolio in such funds. Even then, he says he prefers "fairly conservative" funds with "higher credit quality," like the Vanguard High Yield fund.
Prescott B. Crocker, manager of the Sentinel High Yield Bond fund in Boston, was more bullish. "The high-yield market is extremely attractive at this point," he said.
Mr. Crocker pointed to yields that were more than double those of 10-year Treasuries, now yielding about 4.5 percent, and to the efforts of the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates, making credit more available to corporations.
ON the other hand, Mark Vaselkiv, president and portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price High-Yield fund in Baltimore, said: "At this stage, to be intellectually honest, I have to be cautious. The market is increasingly fragile." 
It had begun to recover from "an ill-timed bet on telecom," Mr. Vaselkiv said, but "Sept. 11 changed everything." He said he would not recommend that long-term investors sell high-yield funds, and he would advise people considering such a fund to "wait and be cautious." 
Pointing to "a strong correlation with the stock market," which plunged after Sept. 11, he said that "if the economy and the military issues resolve quickly, I would be more confident." He would guide new investors, meanwhile, toward "a high-quality bond fund" like T. Rowe Price New Income.
Connie J. Plaehn, a managing director of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in New York, steers a middle course. Ms. Plaehn, as senior fixed-income portfolio manager for mutual funds, pension and other institutional clients, is responsible for managing more than $73 billion and can cross the credit spectrum.
"We are upgrading the junk bonds we have in our portfolio," she said, "holding our high-yield allocation steadily but moving to higher quality." The allocation may be 3 percent for a conservative client, she said, ranging up to more than 20 percent for an aggressive investor.
"Certainly, in our view, we cannot avoid a recession," Ms. Plaehn said, noting that the economy had been slowing even before Sept. 11 and that the possibility of military action had made the outlook for all investments uncertain. Still, short-term corporate debt securities -- especially those rated B and BB, at the high end of the junk category -- are attractive relative to Treasuries, she said. 
"We don't do much in distressed sectors," she added.
Brendan M. White, manager of the Touchstone High Yield fund and senior portfolio manager at Fort Washington Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, says he expects a "reasonably tough market going forward" and predicts that "defaults will increase in the near future." As a result, he said, his portfolio's "risk-return profile is more aligned to the higher end of the market."
Mr. White suggested that potential investors study a fund's portfolio, checking the credit quality of its holdings, its volatility and total return and whether it is in battered sectors like telecommunications. (Such information is available at www.morningstar.com and from the funds.) Bonds with low credit ratings may signal problems, he said. Many CCC-rated bonds "can mean aggressive, equity-like risk," he said.
"Yield has become something of an unfulfilled hope," he added.
Kurt Brouwer of Brouwer & Janachowski, an investment adviser in Tiburon, Calif., said, "We have never used a pure high-yield bond fund." Stronger total returns, he said, have generally been available in funds with higher credit quality, like Pimco Total Return.
Still, Mr. Brouwer said, he is beginning to look at some high-yield funds, including those offered by Pimco, Vanguard and T. Rowe Price. 
"High yield is an opportunistic area," he said. "Your timing has to be good. Going into a recession is not a good time. When the recession is deepest and darkest is probably the best time."
Of course, market timing is difficult, even for the professionals. Mr. Brouwer advises that only investors who have well-diversified portfolios go into such funds, and "only if you can hold a few years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: M. John Sterba, chairman of Investment Management Advisors in New York, says rates on high-yield bonds are attractive. (Chester Higgins Jr. for The New York Times) Chart: "The Allure, and Danger, of Junk Bonds"High-yield, or junk bonds have had increasingly higher yields than 10-year Treasury notes, but a rising default rate indicates that investing in junk bonds is becoming riskier. Graph shows High-yield market default rate and High-yield SpreadDifference in yield, or spread, between the J.P. Morgan Chase global high-yield index and 10-year Treasuries (Sources: J.P. Morgan Chase; C.S. First Boston)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



206 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
It's Time for Terror-Proof Markets

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month.E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
NEVER again. 
 That should be the motto of our financial markets in the wake of Sept. 11. Never again shall we let the forces of evil shut us down. Never again will we hand our enemies the power to paralyze our business lives. Never again will we make ourselves so vulnerable. 
 Now is the time to resolve that no person or thing will be allowed to close American financial markets unless the exchanges themselves and their government overseers believe that doing so is in the best interests of the nation and its economy. That means markets cannot be closed because the phones are not working, or because we feel bad, or because employees cannot reach their posts. 
Just as the nation is embarked on a campaign to increase security against terrorist attacks, so the securities industry and its regulators must embark on a drive to build attack-proof markets. We can easily achieve this goal with the proven electronic trading technology already in use by Nasdaq and others. 
That will mean jettisoning our sentimental attachment to the sporting spectacle that the New York Stock Exchange offers today. We can debate forever the virtues of open-outcry trading, but henceforth it will always be antiquated and vulnerable, a tourist attraction more than a sensible modern way to buy and sell securities. Open outcry is theme-park capitalism, colorful, to be sure, but best left to Disneyland or Las Vegas. If necessary, people dressed like traders can shout harmlessly at one another every day on the current site of the New York Stock Exchange, in a latter-day version of colonial Williamsburg. That's entertainment. But what the world economy needs are bulletproof financial markets immune to everything short of nuclear holocaust. 
But it's not just the markets that must pursue business as usual when terrorism strikes. Next time around, all of us will have to do our part. If you felt helpless watching those horrible images on television, know that you can, in fact, do something. You can get back to work and at least deprive our attackers of the ability to decide what we do -- and how prosperous we should be.
For that to happen, we need to confront an unfortunate side effect of our remarkable prosperity: shame. Chronic guilt over the almost unimaginable wealth of American life seemed an inevitable by-product of our affluence, like traffic jams or lawyers, though it hasn't stopped many of us from buying nice cars or second houses. 
It is time to get over it, and we may yet thank our attackers for helping us to do so. If you are ashamed of what you do and how you live, change your life. Otherwise, no more squeamishness. We cannot let every crackpot with a grievance bring the economy screeching to a halt. Besides, getting back to work doesn't dishonor the dead, and walking away from the job next time around will bring comfort only to those whose mindless assault on progress and modernity has our paralysis as its aim. 
It's time to grow up about this: not only is making money nothing to be embarrassed about, it's also at the core of our civilization. Prosperity underwrites our freedoms, our universities, our advances against pollution and disease and discrimination. The values of pluralism and individual rights are bound up with the free markets and financial wherewithal that were one of the main targets on Sept. 11. 
It would be nice to say "never again" to terrorist attacks. Unfortunately, in the 21st century that may not be possible for a long, long time. We must do everything we can to thwart them, but the sad reality is that, someday, somewhere, terrorist violence against innocent Americans will recur. And our impulse after the recent attacks to stop everything (and plunge our economy into recession) will only encourage the enemies of decency and progress.
We cannot give them the satisfaction. Next time, however much it hurts, we should make sure it is business as usual, especially in the financial markets.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (75%) VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



207 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: STRATEGIES; 
Is Gold Relevant? Quiet, Please!

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE debate over the role of gold in investment portfolios may boil down to just a few percentage points. But you would never know that by listening to the fervor with which the two sides disagree.
 In one corner are those who say gold funds should play a permanent part in diversifying a portfolio, despite gold's 21-year-long bear market. 
 That viewpoint received a lift when gold for December delivery rose to $294 an ounce by Sept. 30, from $273.70 before the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. 
The price spike helped to make precious-metal funds the top performer of any domestic or international equity category in the third quarter. As a group, the funds rose 3.18 percent, compared with a decline of 14.7 percent on a total return basis for the Standard & Poor's 500.
In the opposite corner are investment professionals and finance professors who deride these arguments as the delusions of what they call "gold bugs" -- people who cling to an outdated notion of gold as an eternal store of value. 
Relatively little research has been done on the investment role of gold. While many market debates can be decided by the historical record, this one quickly dissolves into a dispute over which periods, if any, are relevant.
Those who shun gold tend to concentrate on the last two decades, when gold has performed poorly. But is such a limited focus justified? While many researchers concede that it would be better to analyze more than two decades, they say that in the case of gold, the data before 1980 is of limited relevance. 
From the end of World War II until 1971, the price of gold was fixed at $35 an ounce. As a result, these researchers say, nothing can be learned about gold's role as a portfolio diversifier by studying that period. Even gold's behavior in the 1970's is suspect, because at least part of its impressive rise in that decade might have been caused by a delayed reaction to inflation in the previous years. 
Another factor might have been pent-up demand from individual investors in the United States; until then, it was illegal for them to invest in gold.
Even when analyzed with a limited, two-decade focus, gold still earns a passing grade for reducing risk. That is because bullion tends to zig when stocks zag and, as a result, a portfolio that includes gold will be less risky than one that is invested in stocks alone. Since 1980, an equity portfolio with a 10 percent allocation to gold would have had its volatility reduced by 9.6 percent.
Foes of gold, however, say it deserves no permanent place in a portfolio because it forfeits too much performance as it cuts volatility. Since 1980, an investor would have made more money, with less risk, by substituting 90-day Treasury bills for gold.
So how do gold's defenders answer that? They disagree less with this analysis than with the historical period to which it is applied. Of course, they say, investors should not buy gold if they assume that the future will be like the last two decades -- characterized by relative geopolitical calm, robust economic growth and low inflation. But what if the future is less rosy? What if the war against terrorism takes longer or is less than successful? 
This attitude toward recent decades leads to defining risk over much longer periods. Unlike some analysts, whose risk models use a year or two of data to define the relationships among various assets, gold's advocates tend to focus on events that occur rarely but are extremely significant when they do.
Certainly, gold excels as a hedge against rare events. Those who say gold has a permanent role in an investment portfolio refuse to dismiss the 1970's, because that decade offered the best modern example of financial distress. The 70's contained America's exit from the Vietnam War, the resignation of a president, an oil embargo, high inflation and sluggish economic growth. Gold's advocates say these factors, not the deregulation of the gold market, caused bullion to skyrocket to more than $800 an ounce, from $35.
The battle of precedents goes on and on. Must you resolve it before deciding on your asset allocation? Given the volume of the two camps' arguments, you might think so. But there may be a way to sidestep the debate.
On one practical level, the two sides are not so far apart as their arguments would suggest. Consider first the gold allocation recommended by academicians who do not like gold as an investment.
That allocation -- while small -- is not zero. And it derives from a prevailing academic theory of efficient and rational markets. Implicit in that theory is the idea that an investor's allocation to an industry should not deviate from its proportional weight in the overall market. If the auto industry represents 10 percent of the market's capitalization, for example, investors should allocate 10 percent of their portfolios to auto companies' stocks.
According to Wilshire Associates, United States companies involved in gold and related precious-metals mining have a combined market capitalization of about one-half of 1 percent of the total U.S. stock market. So even ardent believers in efficient markets do not object in principle to allocating at least this much of an equity portfolio to gold and precious metals. And because most of the world's leading gold-mining companies are not based in the United States, the number probably understates the industry's market weight globally.
NOW consider the asset allocation recommendation of the World Gold Council, a trade association of the world's leading gold mining companies whose goal is "stimulating and maximizing the demand and holding of gold." 
The council commissioned a study simulating thousands of situations involving alternating periods of financial calm and distress. Researchers built portfolios with the best risk-reward characteristics, combining large- and small-capitalization stocks, Treasury bills, long-term Treasury bonds and gold. 
Even assuming that periods of financial distress like the 1970's are as likely to occur as periods of calm like the 1990's -- an idea that is favorable to coming up with a high gold allocation -- the study concluded that the optimal allocation is 6 percent of investable assets.
So the debate that seems so intractable on a theoretical level boils down in practical terms to a difference between a small number and a very small number. Though that range is not insignificant, it is far less momentous than many investors might think.
Where you fall within this range depends on how much you want to hedge your portfolio against terrorism and war. If you believe that the world never can return to the relative innocence that prevailed before Sept. 11, you might favor a gold allocation toward the higher end of that range. If you think normalcy will return quickly and remain for a sustained period, then that allocation should be much smaller -- but not zero.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Reducing Risk"Over the last 20 years, gold would have done a credible job of reducing the risk of a stock portfolio. However, 90-day Treasury bills would have done a better job and would not have reduced performance as much. RISK* PORTFOLIO100% stock: 4.5%90% stock /10% gold: 4.190% stock/10% Treasury bills: 4.0 ANNUALIZED RETURNS100% stock: 14.2%90% stock /10% gold: 12.790% stock/10% Treasury bills: 13.5 *As measured by the standard deviation of monthly returns(Source: Hulbert Financial Digest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); HISTORY (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



208 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
In a Chorus of Caution, Some Still Chant Boldness

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
DECIDING to open stores. Buying a company. Proceeding with plans to make significant investments in business. Offering stock to the public for the first time.
 While none of these moves would have seemed particularly aggressive a few months ago, the current business environment has convinced many executives that the wisest course for the foreseeable future is to do as little as possible. Many are choosing to retrench, slash expenses, lay off thousands of employees and postpone major projects. 
 "I don't think people are thinking long term," said Jerry J. Jasinowski, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington. "They're thinking short term."
The possibility of another terrorist attack, the outbreak of war or a prolonged economic and stock market slump has convinced many executives that they cannot predict the future, said Ronald L. Nicol, a senior vice president at the Boston Consulting Group. "What they realize is that they're driving on a curvy road in the fog, and it's scary," he said. 
Adding to the uncertainty, oddly, is the proposed $75 billion federal package of tax cuts and spending measures to stimulate the economy, advanced last week by President Bush. Because the package could include specific measures to encourage businesses to invest in new factories, computers and other equipment, some companies may now wait to make spending decisions to take advantage of the tax breaks.
But a few executives are plunging ahead, betting that the future may not be so vastly different and wanting to take advantage of the environment to get ahead of rivals.
"Being bold, on strategy, is the right move," said Stratton D. Sclavos, chief executive of VeriSign Inc., who decided to proceed with a $1.2 billion merger less than two weeks after Sept. 11. VeriSign, which provides Internet security services, agreed to buy Illuminet Holdings, which provides services to telecommunications companies.
Mr. Sclavos was undeterred by warnings from investment bankers that investors might react poorly to the deal and send the stocks of both companies down. He was convinced, he said, that it was as much a mistake for businesses to time the market as it was for investors. "It's not something we've ever done," he said.
Because Illuminet is profitable and well run, the combination with VeriSign will generate additional profits, he said, and let VeriSign explore new business areas. "Waiting also delays the benefits," he said.
A scattering of other mergers and acquisitions have been announced, including Deutsche Bank's planned purchase of Zurich Scudder Investments, a deal valued at about $2.5 billion in cash and assets. The purchase of Scudder, which has $278 billion in assets under management, thrusts Deutsche Bank into a much larger role as a money manager.
Other companies are choosing to expand. Last week, Wal-Mart Stores, for example, said it planned to spend nearly $10 billion next year to expand its network of stores. The retailer, already the nation's largest, said it would open about 230 stores as well as 50 Sam's Club stores in the United States and 125 overseas. 
Even some executives who are resigned to an unpredictable future have chosen to act. Hilton Hotels has decided to go ahead with the renovation of hotels in San Francisco, New Orleans and elsewhere. While Hilton has cut some jobs at many hotels, it plans no corporate-wide layoffs.
Hilton management decided that it needed to make some guesses about the economy, even if they proved wrong. "We felt immediately after the act on Sept. 11 that we needed to have a theory about how the business would recover," said Stephen F. Bollenbach, the company's chief executive. While acknowledging that Hilton did not have "better insight than anyone else," its management decided to bet on a quick recovery within the next 8 to 12 weeks, returning business activity to the levels last seen in the late 1990's. 
"It lets you answer those questions" about whether to continue spending or start significant layoffs, Mr. Bollenbach said.
While Hilton's management had discussed what to do if the recovery is three to six months off, the executives decided that it would not significantly affect costs if they were more optimistic, Mr. Bollenbach said. The difference in Hilton's expenses, regardless of when a recovery takes hold, he said, was "not a big deal."
The company is also expecting to expand its system at low cost by selling the Hilton franchise to owners of 200 hotels. The overall industry is suffering low occupancy rates because of the slow economy and fears about travel, and Mr. Bollenbach said some hotel owners were more willing to convert to a nationally recognized brand like Hilton.
"We believe the world has not fundamentally changed but that this is a short-term crisis," he added.
And by refusing to make drastic cutbacks in jobs, Hilton may better keep itself ready for an improvement in the industry. "Let's not worry so much about short-term profits," Mr. Bollenbach said.
Of course, some companies are choosing to continue with their plans because their businesses have not been significantly affected by the turmoil. Because Walgreen, the drugstore chain, has historically been immune to economic cycles, "we try to take that long-term focus," said David W. Bernauer, the Walgreen president, who takes over next year as chief executive. Over the last 27 years, growth "is a pretty steady curve," he said.
The company expects to spend about $1.3 billion on projects, including the addition of 475 stores. That is a slight increase from this year's capital spending. "We are going to continue to push that along," he said.
AND despite the virtual standstill in initial public offerings, there are some signs of life. Given Imaging, an Israeli medical device company, went public last week on Nasdaq, raising $60 million in the first such offering since mid-August. Others are at least contemplating going public. PayPal Inc., a small company in Palo Alto, Calif., filed a registration statement in late September for a possible offering. The company allows people, like those using eBay, to send payments via e-mail; it says it has 10 million users.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen F. Bollenbach, chief executive of Hilton Hotels, decided to proceed with renovation of several of the chain's properties. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (50%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VERISIGN INC (82%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%)

TICKER: VRSN (NASDAQ) (82%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); STEPHEN F BOLLENBACH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



209 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Tosha Wilkes, Dwayne Andrews

 BODY:
Tosha Nicole Wilkes, a daughter of Sharon and William Wilkes of Oakland, Calif., was married yesterday to Dwayne McDonald Andrews, the son of Joy and James Andrews of Cambria Heights, Queens. The Rev. 
Xavier Lavagetto performed the ceremony at St. Dominic's Roman Catholic Church in San Francisco.
 Mrs. Andrews, 29, is the vice president of the Business Council for International Understanding, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan that seeks to foster foreign trade. She graduated from Pomona College and received a master's degree in international economics and Japanese studies from Johns Hopkins University. Her parents work in Oakland, where her mother is an appraiser of commercial property for Alameda County and her father is a freelance photographer. 
 Mr. Andrews, 31, is an assistant general counsel for Edison Schools, the private manager of public schools, based in Manhattan. He graduated from York College and received a law degree from Georgetown University. His parents are retired nurses who worked in Brooklyn. His mother was with the pediatric intensive care unit at Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center; his father worked in the general surgery unit of Maimonides Medical Center.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Michael Loeb Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); RELIGION (71%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (66%); LAWYERS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: WILKES, TOSHA NICOLE (TOSHA NICOLE ANDREWS); ANDREWS, DWAYNE MCDONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



210 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: CAREER ARC; 
When the Work Path Turns, Can a Guide Help?

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
MANASSAH BRADLEY knows what it is like to rethink a career. Since graduating from Northeastern University in 1985 with an economics degree, Mr. Bradley has made more changes than many other working people make in a lifetime.
 He started as a customer service representative at Fidelity Investments, but was laid off after the stock market crash of 1987. After traveling and working several odd jobs at investment firms, he was hired by Kidder Peabody to sell fixed-income securities, only to be laid off again in the mid-1990's when the company was acquired by PaineWebber. 
 Disenchanted with Wall Street, Mr. Bradley returned to school and received an M.B.A. in entrepreneurship in May 2000. He wanted to "make lots and lots of money while doing social work," he said. He landed a high-paying job with UPromise Inc., a company that helps create college savings plans; that lasted until he was laid off one year and 12 days later. 
There may be more career changes ahead. But this time, Mr. Bradley has taken a new approach -- hiring Suzanne Blake, a career coach with offices in the Boston area, to help guide him. "I'm hoping she can clarify for me how I can reach my goal of being that six-figure social worker or at least say to me, 'You're never going to get that; here's what you can do in the interim,' " said Mr. Bradley, 39, who lives in Franklin, Mass., a Boston suburb.
Many other working Americans are doing the same. Huge corporate layoffs -- affecting more than 1.5 million so far this year -- along with the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, have caused many people to re-evaluate their lives and careers. "People are coming for very practical, pragmatic reasons," said Judith F. Feld, president-elect of the International Coach Federation, a 6,000-member professional association based in Washington, and owner of CoachNet in Dallas.
Responding to the financial problems in the airline industry, federation officials say they are developing a plan for members to offer free coaching services to airline workers laid off since the Sept. 11 attacks.
Career coaches are part cheerleader, part guidance counselor and part sounding board. They can help clients clarify their goals, hone their talents and develop job-search and interview skills. Most also try to match clients' objectives with their personalities and how they live -- maybe suggesting ways for people to lighten their workloads while maintaining their income levels.
There are about 10,000 full-time professional coaches of all types (excluding sports) nationwide, and that number is expected to grow. Thomas Leonard, a pioneer of the profession and a founder of Coach U in Colorado Springs, one of the largest training schools for personal and business coaches, predicted that "it will be as common to have a coach as it now is to have a personal fitness trainer."
But choosing the right career coach can be a challenge in itself. How much should you pay? How long should a coach be retained? What results should you expect?
While there are few exact statistics for gauging success, people in the business have several suggestions. First, they say, check credentials. Random searches on the Internet show a variety of sources for training and credentialing -- some offer certification after just a three-day course -- but the experts recommend certification by the International Coach Federation. The group, which has a set of standards and a code of ethics for its members, offers certification for those who have graduated from an accredited coach-training program and have met other requirements, including completing a minimum of 750 hours of coaching. It lists 10 accredited schools on its Web site (www.coachfederation.org), many with training programs lasting several months.
People should also consider the coach's communications skills, education and experience, as well as his or her own job background. Experts recommend interviewing several candidates before hiring one.
"The client has to feel the coach understands the world they live in; there needs to be good chemistry and good communication," Ms. Feld said.
Rich Feller, a counseling and career development professor at Colorado State University, said career coaches "seem to work best with self-directed people who have few barriers holding them back." Mr. Feller also serves on the board of the National Career Development Association, a professional group in Tulsa, Okla.
According to the coach federation, most career coaches charge by the month and require a minimum of at least three months. The average monthly fee is $500, but may be as low as $250. Coaching fees for corporate executives tend to be higher.
Most coaching sessions, excluding those for top-level executives, are conducted over the telephone or on the Internet. Once hired, a coach assesses a client's skills, personality, lifestyle and goals.
Lori Sallet, 37, hired Ms. Feld after leaving MCI in 1999 after it was acquired by WorldCom. She had worked there for 12 years.
"Then I was faced with 'Where do I go next?' " said Ms. Sallet, who was also re-evaluating her life in Washington, where she was living at the time.
With a background in marketing, she briefly considered becoming a career coach herself. But as she worked with Ms. Feld as a mentor, she examined her options and started a consulting business -- Project Management L.L.C. -- which helps corporations manage change in situations like mergers, restructurings or downsizings.
Ms. Feld also helped Ms. Sallet change the way she approached her work life. Rather than being driven by a checklist detailing all she had to do, she began looking at the type of work she was drawn to, isolating what she valued in her life. As a result, she and her husband, Jonathan Sallet, 49, once the chief lawyer advising MCI on policy issues and now a business consultant, moved to Centreville, Md., on the Eastern Shore, and scaled back the number of hours they worked.
But Ms. Sallet's work with Ms. Feld did not end there. She continues to consult with her coach almost every week and has used the relationship to help her build her business and draw boundaries. For example, she said, Ms. Feld helped her to develop standards, work practices and fee schedules. When a client was too demanding, she turned to her coach to find the strength to say "no" and then came up with acceptable alternatives. She declined to disclose her income, but said that it was about the same as at MCI and that her workweek had been scaled down to three days. That means she and her husband can take their boat out for a spin on many afternoons on Chesapeake Bay.
"I'm very happy," she said. "First of all she's helped me make my business very successful, and successful on my own terms." 
While such stories abound, some experts in career counseling and job transition question the value of career coaches. 
"I have trouble getting my hands around what a career coach is," said Robert K. Otterbourg, author of "Switching Careers" (Kiplinger Books, $17.95).
Mr. Otterbourg's book, published this year, details how and why dozens of people switch careers, and it suggests that those looking for a change can easily handle it themselves, saving a lot of money in the process.
"You can do an awful lot of investigation yourself," he said, noting various sources available in publications or over the Internet. Many universities and community colleges also offer skills assessments, he added.
"If your goal is to be a minister, go see a minister," Mr. Otterbourg said.
Most important, he said, is to "do something you love" and not to try to second-guess the job market. After all, the hot jobs of two years ago, like those at dot-coms, are among the least attractive today.
COACHES and their clients, however, say the do-it-yourself method does not always work. It is sometimes hard, they said, for workers to be objective about their own skills and talents, particularly when going through a rough patch like a layoff, which can be demoralizing.
"First, you're shocked, then you're disappointed," Mr. Bradley said. "Then it's, 'How are you going to pay your bills? Can you make it?' Then you have to deal with the three R's -- reality, responsibility and redirection."
Ms. Blake, his coach, has helped him through that self-searching period. Mr. Bradley recently completed the first of a three-month contract, at $350 a month. And he has come up with a plan to do decorative painting, paying about $25 an hour, while he develops his next career as -- you guessed it, a career coach.
"For me the value of having a coach is keeping me focused on my goal," he said. "I just need somebody to be in my corner saying, 'go for it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lori Sallet worked with a career coach and eventually started a consulting business. The change allows her to spend afternoons sailing Chesapeake Bay with her husband. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); Suzanne Blake, left, a career coach in Brookline, Mass., with a client, Karen Kluger. Career coaching can help people match their work objectives with how they live. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (74%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); AIRLINES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: UPROMISE INVESTMENTS INC (69%); FMR CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



211 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
How the Growl Became a Roar

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
FOR most mutual fund investors, about the only nice thing that can be said about the summer of 2001 is that it ended. 
 What began as a quarter of worry over a wobbly economy and rocky corporate earnings ended with 99 percent of equity funds in the red. 
 "The last three months have been some of the most difficult conditions I have experienced in managing money in the last 20 years," said Thomas F. Marsico, portfolio manager and president of Marsico Funds, with $11 billion under management. 
Major stock market indexes were down before terrorists attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and so were equity funds: the average stock market mutual fund was down nearly 12 percent from the end of June through Sept. 10.
The selling after Sept. 11 made matters much worse. For the quarter, the average diversified mutual fund fell 16.22 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. It was the biggest three-month decline since the fall of 1987. 
Perhaps more important, the decline meant that diversified equity mutual fund values have now fallen in four of the last five quarters. The last period of comparable contraction was in 1983-84, according to Lipper Inc., the research firm.
The market's free fall left few stocks unscathed. Only bear funds, which short the market, and precious-metals funds, which rose 3.18 percent, showed an increase. 
Science and technology funds, which have been falling since March 2000, when the Nasdaq composite index peaked, had their worst quarter ever, falling nearly 39 percent, according to Morningstar. Growth funds fell 22.9 percent, on average, with value funds down 12.4 percent. 
Confronted with uncertainty and loss, many investors chose not to panic and run for the exits, but to seek safety and stability.
Extrapolating weekly fund flow numbers from AMG Data Services, Thomas McManus, chief investment strategist at Banc of America Securities, estimated late last month that net redemptions from domestic equity funds totaled $21 billion in the third quarter, the first negative quarter since the summer of 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait. 
While that $21 billion is significant Mr. McManus said, it needs to be put in context. 
"In 1990, net outflows from domestic equity mutual funds totaled $4 billion," he said. "But assets back then were $196 billion. At the end of August there was nearly $2.9 trillion in all domestic equity funds." 
Money coming out of equity funds was redirected into bond funds and money market funds. In August alone, bond funds had inflows of $15 billion; an additional $24 billion went into money market funds, according to Lipper.
"Investors are deciding to reallocate, and not exit the financial system," said Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services. 
At the Vanguard Group, the mutual fund company with $530 billion in assets, net outflows from equity funds in September totaled $1.3 billion, said Brian Mattes, a spokesman. But Vanguard had net inflows of $2.3 billion in the first two months of the quarter. 
Last month, Vanguard bond funds had $1.8 billion in inflows, Mr. Mattes said, on top of $5.1 billion in inflows in July and August.
Helped by the continued decline in interest rates, bond funds eked out positive returns for the quarter. The average taxable bond fund was up 1.6 percent for the last three months, according to Morningstar, while municipal bond funds gained 2.57 percent, on average. 
The enduring popularity of bond and money market funds, however, is in doubt. With short-term interest rates now at 40-year lows, investors may soon look elsewhere. In large measure, future flows will depend on how long it takes to restore confidence and stability in the market.
"Investors are doing what they have always done," said Geoff Bobroff, president of Bobroff Consulting, a mutual fund consulting firm in East Greenwich, R. I. "Once equity returns are restored, they will move as quickly as you can blink an eye out of fixed income." 
Russell Kinnel, Morningstar's director of fund analysis, said a reversal, if it comes, may not be abrupt. "I don't expect fund investors to make big moves into stock funds in the near term," he said.
"Fund flows are generally very much a lagging indicator," Mr. Kinnel said. "Some improvement in the economy or the market will reverse the trend. But even a nice rally will produce a much more sober investor. People were getting carried away with the allocation to equities."
Stock markets declined around the world during the quarter. The average international stock fund fell 15.8 percent, Morningstar said. It was the fifth decline for such funds in the last six quarters. 
Of the bear funds that had a feast in the quarter, none fared better than Rydex Venture 100, a fund whose results inversely correlate to the Nasdaq 100 index. The fund gained 116.97 percent during the quarter.
"Bear and contrarian funds were the ones making money in the quarter," said Andrew Clark, a research analyst at Lipper.
Conrad B. Herrmann, director of equity research at Franklin Advisors in San Mateo, Calif., and manager of its $1.6 billion California Growth fund, had a rocky ride in the third quarter. 
"I have been with Franklin since 1989, and this was one of the most challenging periods on record," he said. 
Mr. Herrmann, whose fund lost 21.3 percent of its value in the three months, said the selling after the Sept. 11 attacks reached irrational proportions. 
"The market on Sept. 21 indicated major panic psychology, suggesting we have reached a bottoming process," he said. "But I try and keep an optimistic outlook on things." 
On Friday, Sept. 21, the Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite closed at their lowest levels so far this year. The selling that day was the finishing touch on one of the stock market's worst weeks ever. 
"There has not been a bear market this bad since 1973 to 1974," Mr. Kinnel said. "It's a pretty severe loss, one I don't think people are used to."
In depth and duration, the current slide in the stock market is the worst since the steep drop in the mid-1970's, when a sharp spike in oil prices sent the economy into a tailspin. 
The losses of the last three months have only worsened what was already a bad year. 
Coupled with the declines in the first quarter, some famous fund names are down sharply for 2001. Vanguard 500 Index is down 20.5 percent; Fidelity Magellan, 20.5 percent; and American Funds' Growth Fund of America, 25 percent.
October has seldom been a good month for stock investors, and there are ample reasons for caution: The length and depth of what looks certain to be a recession are unknown; the United States, in concert with its allies, has yet to respond to the Sept. 11 attacks; and the threat of further terrorist activity is real.
Still, as the third quarter was ending, some people were deciding to start buying.
Mr. Marsico, whose funds concentrate on growth stocks, said the steep price declines after Sept. 11 had pushed many of the stocks he prefers into the value category.
Stocks are deemed to be a value when their prices fall below the underlying value of their assets. 
"Going into the 11th, our cash positions were relatively high, at between 15 percent and 18 percent," he said. 
In the last two weeks of September, "we did quite a bit of buying," he said, adding to positions in Citigroup and buying shares in General Electric and Home Depot.
By the end of the quarter, Mr. Marsico's funds had lowered their cash holdings to between just over 2 percent and 6 percent of their portfolios. 
"I am feeling more confident about investing money at these levels than I have in the last five years," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas F. Marsico, portfolio manager and president of Marsico Funds, said he "did quite a bit of buying" after Sept. 11. (Brian Brainerd for The New York Times)(pg. 37) Chart: "Out of Equity"Investors pulled money from U.S. domestic equity funds in the third quarter, making it the first negative quarter for stock fund flows since 1990. Graph shows equity funds and bond funds since 1990. *Includes third-quarter projections(Sources: Investment Company Institute; AMG Data Services; Banc of America Securities)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); LIPPER INC (82%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); AMG DATA SERVICES (53%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



212 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
The Outlook For Recovery: Three Factors To Watch

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THERE is almost no end to the uncertainty about the economy. Here are three questions whose answers could go a long way toward clarifying the outlook.
 Can the productivity miracle continue? 
 The foundation of the prosperity that the United States enjoyed in the 1990's was the resurgence in the nation's ability to produce more for less. After languishing for decades, the growth rate of productivity, or output per hour worked, took off in the middle of the last decade, creating conditions under which both workers and companies could earn more without generating inflation. 
The improvement was driven largely by advances in technology. But it also reflected a pervasive economic and cultural push, prompted by intense international competition and pressure from Wall Street for consistent earnings improvement, to make companies and the economy more efficient. 
Technology is likely to remain a powerfully positive economic force. Although companies have cut back substantially on capital spending, they are only beginning to reap the benefits of advances in automation, communications and data analysis.
But the flexible, cost-squeezing nature of the economy is giving way to something more hardened and expensive.
Companies in many industries are facing higher insurance costs and are devoting large amounts of money to security and backing up computer operations. Banks are likely to face increased costs as the government cracks down on money laundering and closely monitors international money flows.
Moving goods and people around has become more time-consuming and expensive. The border with Canada, for example, has gone from being all but invisible to being a bottleneck for automobiles and parts going back and forth between the two countries. The New York-Washington shuttle flights started again last week, but the days of showing up at the airport at the last minute and hopping aboard are over.
None of these things by themselves are enough to alter the course of an economy as big and resilient as this one. Still, the cumulative effect could be a gradual erosion in productivity improvements. 
If the erosion is permanent, many of the assumptions about the vibrancy and potential of the new economy will be called into question. If it is temporary, the long-term outlook will remain bright.
What will happen to long-term interest rates?
The sagging stock market has eaten into the wealth of many households. But for most people, the prime repository of net worth is their home. So far, housing prices have held up fairly well. More important, low and declining rates this year have allowed more homeowners to refinance their mortgages.
In the process, many people have reduced their monthly payments, freeing cash to spend on other things. Some people have chosen to use equity from their homes in lump sums to buy a car, take a vacation or put aside for a rainy day.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, often points out that the stimulative effect on the housing market of low interest rates has been important in keeping the economy from weakening even more than it has. And as he has counseled Congress about an economic recovery package of tax cuts and new spending, Mr. Greenspan has warned against busting the budget to the degree that investors will be alarmed and long-term interest rates will climb.
There is already some sign of upward pressure on long-term rates, even though the Fed has cut short-term rates aggressively. If rates begin rising for mortgages, as well as corporate bonds and other types of longer-term borrowing, the prospects for a rapid recovery would dim.
Will Japan and Europe stabilize their economies?
There is no realistic prospect that the United States will get any economic help from abroad during this business cycle. But it is still not clear whether deteriorating economic conditions in Japan and Europe will prove to be merely unhelpful or actively harmful.
The new European Central Bank has been slow to cut interest rates this year despite the weakening of national economies across the Continent. Its focus appears to have been more on building its credibility in fighting inflation than on trying to encourage an economic turnaround. Should it remain stingy with rate reductions, the weakness in Europe could linger for some time.
The Bank of Japan has been ineffectual for years in ending Japan's decadelong slump. There are signs that it may finally be learning its lesson. But the banking system in Japan is extremely rickety, and a financial meltdown there would have global repercussions.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the productvity for nonfarm workers, 1992 equals 100, as seasonally adjusted.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); HOME PRICES (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



213 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
A Fund Firm Adjusts, Within Boundaries

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: BERWYN, Pa. 

 BODY:
WHEN stock prices slide, ordinary investors suffer varying degrees of distress and may look for someone to blame for their losses. But they typically have the option of moving into less risky securities or even to the sidelines.
 Professionals generally enjoy less flexibility, especially those who manage publicly traded mutual funds. Consider Robert E. Turner and his colleagues at Turner Investment Partners, a growth-oriented firm that manages $7.6 billion, roughly half in funds and half in private accounts for pension funds and other institutions. The firm lives by some of the more rigid restrictions in the industry. 
 "We're always fully invested," Mr. Turner said. Under the self-imposed restrictions, Turner Investment never moves significant amounts into cash -- it keeps no more than it needs to meet redemptions -- because clients pay it to pick stocks, not time the market, the firm says. It also hews to a policy of investing the same proportion of assets in each industry as a portfolio's benchmark. The policy is to replicate the industry weightings in a particular benchmark, like the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, but not necessarily to buy the individual stocks.
The sector neutrality means, for example, that even if retail stocks are likely to be weak -- as was expected after the attacks on Sept. 11 -- managers must still find stocks within that group in which to invest.
Nonetheless, the Turner operation, which was founded in 1990, the year when Iraq invaded Kuwait and when the last recession began, adjusted its portfolios as soon as trading resumed on Sept. 17, six days after the attacks. The firm substituted stocks within the same sectors.
"We looked at our portfolios, went one by one, and asked ourselves, 'Will this company be damaged?' " said Y. David Kovacs, a senior portfolio manager and Turner's quantitative analyst. "We identified those that were at risk and should be sold as soon as the market reopened."
Abandoned or reduced were stakes in travel-related companies like American Express, Carnival, Cendant, Starwood Hotels and Resorts, AMR (parent of American Airlines), Southwest Airlines and Continental Airlines; retailers like Tiffany and manufacturing companies like Lam Research and SPX.
Replacements included shares of military contractors like L-3 Communications and TRW; technology companies like EMC; retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and Walgreen; energy companies like Calpine and PG&E; as well as P.F. Chang's, Johnson & Johnson and Harley-Davidson.
Despite these shifts, the company's growth strategy produced some dismal results. Its Midcap Growth Fund, for example, lost 32 percent of its value in the last quarter, and was down 59 percent for the 12 months ending Sept. 30. 
Turner's response to the attacks was broad. After determining that its 89 employees and their family members were safe, though some who were traveling were stranded, the firm tried to reassure customers not only that it was able to do business but also that it would not deviate from its investment principles.
"Our financial system has weathered tragic events in the past, and it will do so again now," Turner said in an e-mail message to its 4,900 clients and industry colleagues on Sept. 12. "Our offices will remain open."
The basic message to clients, Mr. Turner said, was "Don't bail out."
PARTICULAR attention was given to consultants, those whose advice helps decide where institutions place their money.
"We wanted clients to know we're here -- and what's going on," said Stephen J. Kneeley, president of Turner and one of four main shareholders in the firm, which is privately held.
While the markets were closed, employees attended daily, often emotional, staff meetings, said Doff Meyer, the chief marketing officer. 
They were urged to focus on their work. "We cannot leave a basis point of alpha on the table," said Mr. Kneeley, referring to the slimmest unit of market-beating performance. "Some of our competitors are not going to be standing at the end of this. We are."
To accommodate small investors with patriotic fervor, Turner reduced its $2,500 investment limit to $25 for the first two weeks after the markets reopened. And it canceled a reception it had planned in San Francisco as part of the annual meeting of the International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans, donating the money instead to the American Red Cross.
Many of the portfolio shifts that Turner made were obvious, selling shares in industries like airlines, hotels and insurance and investing in industries that could benefit like military suppliers and companies that make travel less necessary. One stock it added, Polycom, is a maker of audioconferencing equipment.
But the firm's analysts, several of whom double as portfolio managers, dug a bit deeper in search of other investment possibilities.
Frank L. Sustersic, the health care specialist, warmed to pharmaceuticals stocks, figuring that price limitations and a patients' bill of rights would be less likely to be enacted by a government whose attention had been diverted to issues of national security.
"From a political standpoint, the events were perversely positive," Mr. Sustersic said. He also spent some time considering the question of which stocks might suffer if foreign insurers, facing large claims, were forced to sell shares.
William C. McVail, who oversees consumer products, suggested that a rise in the "nesting" impulse would make eBay and Barnes & Noble more appealing, and he contended that a recession would put a premium on job-related education, which led Turner to add to its holdings of the Apollo Group, parent of the online University of Phoenix. 
And he found that Stanley Works, the tool maker, was in line to sell more products to Wal-Mart. As for the advertising business, Mr. McVail said, the best indicator -- "the canary in the coal mine" -- is the spending of car dealers and other merchants on radio stations in major markets.
"We're sector neutral, so you can't not own consumer stocks," Mr. McVail said. "That's the challenge, to find the exposure."
But Turner, whipsawed when it became bullish on semiconductor capital equipment in late summer, continues to stress growth despite the sour investment climate.
"There's a tendency to become value oriented" and abandon a time-tested and widely broadcast growth style, Mr. Turner said, who told clients that the attacks "will certainly" push the economy into a recession.
"It would be easy to throw in the towel and buy more conservative stocks that on a near-term basis may be better relative performers," Turner told clients on Sept. 19, the middle of stocks' worst week since the Depression, as gauged by the Dow Jones industrials. But those stocks will lag behind when the market turns up, it said, adding, "We are growth stock managers and when growth re-emerges, we will be there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're always fully invested," Robert Turner of Turner Investment Partners said of the firm's mutual funds. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RETAILERS (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); FAMILY (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); RESORTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (52%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (52%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (52%); L-3 COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS INC (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); L-3 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY & DETECTION SYSTEMS (51%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (61%); ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); LUV (NYSE) (52%); HOT (NYSE) (52%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); UAL (NYSE) (52%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (52%); LLL (NYSE) (51%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (69%); KUWAIT (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



214 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Bolstered by Rate Cuts, S.& L.'s Are on the Rise

BYLINE:  By CAROLINE WAXLER

 BODY:
DECLINING short-term interest rates and strengthening balance sheets have bolstered the shares of savings and loan associations, and some analysts say the stocks continue to be good values.
 "The bottom line is that I don't think these stocks are very expensive," said Jeff Runnfeldt, senior analyst at Montgomery Asset Management in San Francisco. The stocks have an average trailing price-to-earnings ratio of 13.8, versus 20 for the Standard & Poor's 500. He said these companies had fairly stable earnings and had benefited from falling short-term interest rates. 
 David Ellison, portfolio manager at FBR Fund Advisors in Boston, said he thought the current environment was good for the savings institutions, including companies like Astoria Financial, Charter One Financial, Golden State Bancorp, Golden West Financial and Washington Mutual.
Savings and loan associations lend money to homeowners through mortgages, financings and home equity loans -- on a fixed-rate or adjustable-rate basis. They typically sell off the fixed-rate loans but keep the adjustable ones on the balance sheet as assets. They profit from the difference between the yield on their loans and their cost of deposits; during the last 18 months, that gap has grown larger. Primarily because of the short-term rate cuts, Mr. Ellison said, earnings in the fourth quarter could be even higher than expected.
Still, long-term interest rates have been dropping, too, posing a risk for the savings institutions. If rates become too low, consumers will probably lock in the lower fixed-rate mortgages instead of turning toward the adjustable-rate mortgages, which are crucial for balance sheet growth. Mr. Ellison said that if long-term rates fell too far, margins would shrink. The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, according to Freddie Mac, declined to 6.64 percent last week, to the lowest level since 1998. Mortgage refinancings this year are estimated to reach $890 billion, the highest level ever. 
Another danger is found in the economic slowdown. If the downturn persists, lending will slow, and consumer defaults will rise.
Savings and loans have not always been the safest places to invest. In the industry crisis of the 1980's, questionable loans led to rampant bankruptcies as the economy faltered. Today, Mr. Ellison said, the industry is more strictly regulated, and problems should not be as severe. "This is a cleaned-up industry which is very conservatively run," he said. 
Many companies have capital ratios -- equity as a percentage of assets -- of 6 to 7 percent. In the mid-1980's, 2 to 3 percent was not unusual. 
Thomas O'Donnell, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said he thought that in the short term, institutions that do more adjustable-rate mortgage lending, like Washington Mutual and Golden West, should benefit most from the wider gap between short- and long-term interest rates.
Washington Mutual, based in Seattle, is the largest savings and loan in the country, with with $229 billion in assets, and is acquiring Dime Bancorp of New York. "Lower rates are helpful to us." said Kerry Killinger, Washington Mutual's chief executive. It earned $2.36 a share last year, and the forecast for this year, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, is $3.56 a share. Its stock now trades at $38.49.
Golden West, based in Oakland, Calif., is the third-largest in the country, with $57 billion in assets. For its 2000 fiscal year, it earned $3.41 a share, but expects to earn $5.01 a share this year. It trades at $57.10.
Its expenses are less than 1 percent of assets, versus 2 percent for a typical savings and loan. Herbert Sandler, the co-chairman and co-chief executive, said, "We're not smart enough to forecast the direction of interest rates," but, he added, "We have a terrific productivity and cost effectiveness." He said the company's earnings per share had grown at an average annual rate of 17 percent for the last 30 years; the average over five years has been 21 percent. 
MR. ELLISON recommended Astoria Financial, based in Lake Success, N.Y., because it has an expense ratio of less than 1 percent and high business volume in each branch. Its location is a benefit, he said. "This is a densely populated blue-collar area, which is a perfect banking market," he said.
With $22.5 billion in assets, the company is the second-largest savings and loan in New York and the sixth largest in the country. Astoria earned $4.32 a share last year, and analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/ First Call expect that to rise to $4.77 a share this year; the stock now trades at $58.44. "There is a lot of safety in the typical thrift business," said George L. Engelke Jr., chairman and chief executive of Astoria. "The last thing anybody wants to lose is a place to live. They would eat less or have less fun rather than not make their mortgage payments."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Benefits Of a Rate Gap"The stock prices of savings and loan associations have climbed, in part because of the growing difference between short-term interest rates and mortgage rates. Graph shows ASTORIA FEDERAL, WASHINGTON MUTUAL, and S.&P. 500 INDEX (Set equal to $20 on Jan. 3, 2000) from January 2000-October 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (69%); MONTGOMERY ASSET MANAGEMENT LP (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (56%); CHARTER ONE BANK (56%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: AF (NYSE) (56%); WFC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



215 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: New York's True Heart 

BYLINE:  By BILL McKIBBEN; Bill McKibben is the author of "The End of Nature" and other books about the environment. His latest book is "Long Distance: A Year of Living Strenuously," about cross-country skiing. He is a visiting scholar at Middlebury College in Vermont.

 BODY:
ONE of the myths Manhattan likes to tell about itself is that it runs on ideas alone. 
 It's true that this rather unremarkable island managed to turn itself into the most important place on earth through sheer brainpower. The ability to juggle words and numbers and images and emotions made it the publishing and financial and communications and advertising center of the globe, gradually replacing, in the last century, the manufacturing and the shipping and the actual doing that underpin most economies. 
 But it's true as well that at the bottom of all that virtuality there always remained a physical city. Its typical dramas are usually well hidden -- there's no Dow Jones Index of Water Main Breaks -- but in the days after the World Trade Center attack, that infrastructure literally burst out into the open. 
To stuff it back inside there just as suddenly appeared swarms of men and women, the incredibly competent overseers of this submerged world. You were suddenly reminded that for every Master of the Universe trading bonds in the clouds, there was a Master of the Underworld, who knew how to splice cable back together. 
Everyone has focused, understandably, on the heroics of the fire and rescue crews sifting through the rubble at the site of the attack. 
But consider the subtler feats of magic and grit worked in the course of the first few weeks:
Con Ed, with some 850 workers out in the streets, managed in eight days to cut and isolate the circuits around the twin towers and a pair of destroyed substations, lay 33 miles of new cable, and restore service to virtually all the 12,000 commercial and residential buildings without electricity and the 1,400 without gas. 
Verizon managed to restore two-thirds of the 300,000 voice lines served by its West Street switching center, even though many of its manholes were deep under the debris, and flooding and falling debris destroyed parts of the underground cable vault.
City workers somehow got subways rerouted and stations reopened, even though the tunnel for the No. 1 and No. 9 trains was crushed, the No. 2 and 3 tube was partly flooded, and stairways to the N and the R were filled with rubble. 
There have been, of course, grumbles that it took too long (as good a sign as any of New York returning to "normal"). But when you stop to think about what lies at the real heart of the city, it's almost unbelievable that the recovery has been so swift.
At the very bottom, almost completely obscured, lies the natural Manhattan that the first settlers found: bedrock, fault lines, even stream beds. Sometimes, when the water department finds flooding in a basement but can't easily trace the source of the leak, an inspector will pull out a map drawn by Egbert L. Viele in 1865, a map that shows the island's original shoreline and its active creeks: Saw Kill Stream, Smit's Vly, and so on, a gazetteer of the vanished, all obliterated beneath fill and foundation. But not totally obliterated. Sometimes, water pouring out of a main will find one of the old stream beds and follow it blocks uptown or down, and if you have the map you can puzzle it out.
ABOVE that is a spaghetti bowl of pipes, wires, cables, mains, all of it forgotten, except when those swirls of steam come wafting up from beneath Times Square. But even in the best of times, it's under severe stress. 
Say a gas main crosses a water pipe. Every time something presses down on the gas main, it chisels away at the pipe. What could press down on a gas main? Years ago, in a more innocent time, I asked that question of the chief of repair for the Bureau of Water Supply. "Say you get some clown hightailing down Canal Street to the Holland Tunnel at 3 a.m. in his moving van," he said, "hitting all the valve boxes and the potholes and, oh, boy, those pipes will just crack."
Or say you get a building hurtling down through space, millions of tons of debris crashing in a few square acres. Crashing hard enough, for instance, to crumple the I-beams that vault the subway tunnels, which in some cases run just five feet below the surface of the street. Because of the curious history of the subways -- they were built by competing private firms, each wanting a piece of the lucrative Lower Manhattan traffic -- the lines all converge on the crowded ground near the Battery. Ground that, incidentally, must also be protected from the water of the harbor. A retaining wall performs that job, a retaining wall that almost miraculously appears intact.
In other words, the heavy-yielding trees of commerce that blossom all across the island, and grow thickest at its tip, are rooted in an ungodly tangle below the ground. That tangle twists beneath every inch of the city. There are still wooden pipes down there, bypassed now, that once carried water or factory gas. Nothing is clean, simple, easy to unknot. It's a splay that forever defies rationalization, one jury-rigged from the technologies of three centuries.
Repairing it requires the skills of those different eras, too. I've watched Con Ed splicers repair a cable shorted by hungry rats who relish the insulation, watched as a worker climbed down a manhole, pulled the line through till he found the hole, replaced the wire cover with a lead sleeve, and then heated lead solder till it was 900 degrees. 
Wearing cotton work gloves, he poured the lead from a ladle over the cable, and caught the excess in another ladle beneath, then held the molten lead in place with a square of cotton ticking into which he had spit. Grease would work better than spit, he said, except that when it heated up it drew new rats at a run.
Now, down in the subway tunnels, other workers are simultaneously shoring up damaged arches with the wooden pillars that miners have used for eons, and monitoring the most high-tech inclinometers to see if the ground is still shifting. Some parts of the tunnels are so precarious that they'll need to be literally filled with concrete to keep them from collapsing under the weight of the recovery machinery operating on the streets above. And when the time comes, subway workers will then have to tunnel right through that concrete to build a new line. 
The kind of expertise that allows the city even to begin to cope with such disasters doesn't come quickly. You can't wait until a crisis and then start thinking about what you're going to do. 
Imagine a day in 1940, when New York City's Water Board, looking for engineers, offered a Civil Service exam. It gave the test simultaneously in New York, Boston, Denver, where many of the best employees of the Federal Bureau of Reclamation were located; and in Knoxville, Tenn., trying to lure engineers from the Tennessee Valley Authority. 
Ten thousand took the test, 20 were offered jobs, and many of those began early in their careers to plot the course of the third tunnel, a vast excavating job still under way. 
It was needed to bring water to the fast-growing areas of Brooklyn and Queens. But even more it was needed because there was no way to shut down and fix the city's two existing water tunnels, which dated from the first part of the century. Everyone feared -- still fears -- that if their gate valves were closed so the huge pipes could be inspected, they might stick shut, drying up the city. Through such forethought comes the kind of redundancy that makes it possible to imagine surviving an attack like last month's.
IT'S not just forethought, either, but a kind of persnickety fussiness as well. Perhaps you've noticed, on streets around the city, gray boxes that look as if they house the controls for traffic lights. In fact, some of them house spigots so that water from any neighborhood can be drawn for testing: run through infrared spectrometers, checked for acidity, alkalinity, bacteria, temperature, fluoride, conductivity, odor. Even for taste. 
So while armed guards patrol the upstate reservoirs to make sure terrorists aren't adding chemicals or poisons, there's also a standing army of lab techs making sure the water is still clear. 
The point is that any city, and especially a city with supply lines as long as New York's, has its own ecology. Its enterprises may seem to respond to consumer confidence or to interest rates, but they are exquisitely sensitive to the physical world as well. Droughts, shifts in environmental laws, changes in energy prices and supplies all work their way through the system, requiring constant adjustment. The Clean Air Act means Con Ed must stop burning coal, and then search the world for low-sulfur oil, for high-grade uranium, for electricity from distant dams. Reservoir levels fall on the headwaters of the Delaware and workers need to dust off giant emergency pumps for sucking water from the Hudson. 
All of this just happens, year in and year out, without the cacophony that accompanies any move in the above-ground Manhattan. In that world, squads of analysts make fortunes, and great names, tracking telecom stocks, but their every move relies on similar squads of people who have built up an expertise in actual telecom equipment. People who know the Esperanto not of money but of gear, who are intimate with the enormous, spidery walls of switches and relays and contacts that make broadband, not to mention dial tone, actual possibilities.
A horror like Sept. 11 explodes our ingrained image for a little while, both literally and in the way that engineers speak of an "exploded diagram." For a little while, one can see the sinews of the city, raw and exposed. 
Right now, in the streets around ground zero, the electric lines run through cables lying on the curb. Soon enough they'll be buried again, made invisible as part of the healing process.
The people who make that system work are usually invisible too. They don't live in Manhattan; for the most part these are bridge-and-tunnel, Island-and-Jersey jobs, often pretty well paid, but never compensated with the kind of glamour that attaches to even the most ephemeral of Manhattan's knowledge industry occupations. 
For the moment, there's an unusual solidarity between New Yorkers of every address and pay grade. Just as surely, that fellow feeling will fade over time, as the city of hype and flash rebuilds its self-confidence, convinces itself once more that it needs nothing from the outside save capital, assures itself that its cloud of hot air keeps Manhattan gloriously afloat. Which it does, but not without a lot of people just as savvy down in the basement bailing hard.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Above, Chang W. Lee/The New York Times; inset, Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 1); (Above, Ed Betz/Associated Press; below, Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (74%); BONDS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); POWER FAILURES (64%); BOND MARKETS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



216 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: New York Fiscal Crisis 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "A Looming New York Fiscal Crisis" (editorial, Oct. 3) understates the problems facing New York State. According to the governor's pre-Sept. 11 projections, New York would have faced deficits of $1.2 billion in the 2001-2002 fiscal year, and $2.6 billion in 2002-2003. 
Since Sept. 11, the projected deficit has skyrocketed. 
 It will be difficult for New York City to find relief in Albany. The challenge to our next mayor will be to develop creative and aggressive economic growth programs and shepherd them through Washington's perilous political process. Hard as it may be, our political leaders need to move beyond comforting the immediate victims of the Sept. 11 atrocity and begin to address the needs of the indirect victims of the terrorists, including tens of thousands of laid-off workers and our 1.1 million schoolchildren, whose needs must not be forgotten.

ERIC T. SCHNEIDERMAN
State Senator, 30th District
New York, Oct. 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POLITICS (68%); CHILDREN (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



217 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Private Skies Of the Very Rich 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
AT a small dinner party in New York last weekend, the conversation among the well-to-do guests turned to vacation plans. The diners -- husbands in custom-made shirts, wives with dewy, laser-blasted faces -- spoke of the potential strain of commercial air travel and the special frustrations this holiday season will surely hold. 
 They spoke of their fear in the lingering shadow of terrorism, and, of course, of the wait in long security lines -- only to have your $42 Tweezerman cuticle nippers taken away from you, one diner complained. 
 Another woman turned to the table and asked, "But how are we going to get to Vail?" 
The answer, everyone agreed, was aboard your own plane -- by booking a charter, buying a time-share or hopping a ride with a friendly mogul. 
In the last decade, the lure of private aviation has saturated the ranks of America's wealthy. And since Sept. 11, as Americans have become more cautious about flying and first-class passengers accustomed to whisking past the economy classes blanch at the thought of long lines, requests for chartered flights have surged. In addition, aviation companies that in the last 10 years have introduced shared ownership programs for private planes (think of a shared Hamptons beach house, but with flight attendants) have in recent weeks expanded their programs to be more affordable.
The wealthy and merely well-to-do -- the A-type moguls, society divas and spoiled venture capitalists, the people whose loafers are never penny, but Belgian or Gucci, the movie stars and society interior decorators -- are all jostling for a seat on a Gulfstream, which sometimes means simply asking, May I hitch a ride with you? 
"I have offered rides to people, sure," said Felix Dennis, the publisher of Maxim and other magazines, who flies to his homes in Mustique, New York and London on chartered jets. "I can understand why there is more interest in flying private. I cannot stand to wait for anything, and most of my friends can't either." Mr. Dennis said that the inconvenience of extra security, not safety, is the issue in his circle. He has offered lifts to friends for a December pilgrimage to Mustique. 
Hollywood, the land of pampered egos and paranoia, has also been making an end run around the airline industry. NBC hired a private jet to bring Reese Witherspoon across the country to host "Saturday Night Live" on Sept. 29. Last week, John Cusack flew on a Disney corporate jet from Los Angeles to New York to promote his movie "Serendipity"; in normal times, a producer said, he might have flown first class.
Even for those Americans unlikely ever to be guests of morning television, the private plane is emerging as a way to skip the frustration of long lines at airports. An investment banker in his early 30's at Credit Suisse First Boston, who described himself last week as "the farthest thing from a mogul you can imagine," said that he and his wife are trying to put together a group of fliers to go to Vail at Christmas at a cost of about $2,625 a person one way, roughly the cost of a first-class ticket. 
"The airports are going to be crowded, I don't want to wait with my gear in a line a hundred miles long, and I guess I have this residual bad feeling about flying," he said. 
Mario Buatta, the interior decorator, said that although he has always been afraid of flying, he must travel for work, and clients have offered in the last few weeks to fly him privately. "They want to send a plane for me," he said. "Oklahoma or Texas, for example. It is very thoughtful." 
Decorators flying in private jets? What's next, Madonna's manicurist? If the number of private airplanes is any indication, the answer is yes. Since 1991, the number of private planes used by corporations has increased to 14,000, a 47 percent rise, the National Business Aviation Association said; many of those planes are also used by business owners and executives for personal travel. 
And since the soul-chilling disasters of Sept. 11, charter companies, which make planes available to anyone with a telephone and a platinum card, report huge new interest. According to Air Charter Guide, a directory of the 20,000 commercially licensed charter aircraft in the United States, 80 percent of surveyed charter companies report an increase in bookings since Sept. 11. Meara McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the directory, said that many of the companies had reported interest from people who want to split a plane with friends, colleagues or family. 
"Now they call up and ask, 'Hey, what would it cost for me and three of my friends to fly to Sun Valley?' or, 'Hey, I'm about to drop $2,200 on a first-class ticket, and I wonder if it might be cheaper to charter,' " Ms. McLaughlin said. 
The flowering of options means that a personal jet is no longer an anomaly akin to Hugh Hefner's big purple bunny plane in the sky. You can still buy your own Gulfstream V for about $45 million, plus millions more annually for insurance, housing, maintenance, pilots' fees and fuel. But there are also less expensive alternatives -- chartering a plane for between $2,000 and $5,000 an hour; and various aircraft time-shares, known as fractional ownership plans, which run from around $110,000 into the millions 
Kevin Russell, senior vice president at Executive Jet, a corporate aircraft operator owned by Warren Buffet, the billionaire investor, said that the company's fractional owner service has been generating more attention in recent weeks, for price, convenience and safety. 
He said preflight inspections include the exterior, the baggage compartment and the cabin. The planes are locked down when not in the air. Baggage is not X-rayed, because not all of the 3,300 airports that the jets fly to have X-ray machines, but baggage is hand-checked. 
Passengers do not go through metal detectors, for the same reason, but Mr. Russell said the passengers are generally known to the crew. Passengers must supply a manifest before the trip, and must provide identification before boarding the plane. Weapons are not allowed. 
John Nance, a pilot, author and aviation analyst for ABC News, said that corporate jets are not impervious to attack. 
Companies that operate chartered planes must be extra diligent, he said.
"Anyone could charter the plane and kill the pilot," he said. "You had better identify your charterers and make darn sure you get the F.B.I. in on the equation if you have any doubts about them." 
The other issue, he said, is that not all planes are secured at night. 
"Right now, we have thousands of small and large planes sitting with marginal security every night. That is an uncovered area that is being addressed, and it is a vulnerability." 
Executive Jet's fractional ownership program, Net Jets, is still not for weekend excursions. Ownership contracts for the smallest plane, the Citation V Ultra, begin with an upfront price of $375,000 for a one-sixteenth interest in the plane. Above that, the annual fee is $135,000, which buys 50 hours of flying time per year. 
Last week Net Jet announced a program that makes it even cheaper: in partnership with Marquis Jet Partners, buyers can purchase fractional ownership for one year, instead of the normal commitment of five years. Twenty-five hours of flight time begins at $109,000 for a Citation V.
Alan Clingman, the chief executive of Marquis, said the company has signed up celebrities, including the rap group Run DMC and the professional golfer Jim Furyk. But its clients are also families and groups of friends. Regular folks, but rich regular folks. 
"Three guys might fly together with their wives and split the bill, just as if they were at a restaurant," Mr. Clingman said. 
Todd Rome, the president of Blue Star Jets in New York, a year-old agency that matches charters with customers, said that he has made more arrangements for mid-level executives in the last three weeks. 
"You're getting not just the high-level executives, but you're getting someone who wants to spend Thanksgiving with his grandmother in Boca," he said. 
In an odd situation that must make the merely rich folks giggle, it is the superwealthy Gulfstream V owners who have special problems right now. Teterboro Airport in Teterboro, N.J., long a favorite with the private-jet crowd for its proximity to Manhattan, was as late as Friday shut to private jets -- classified by the F.A.A. as "owner-operated, not for hire" aircraft -- and only charter flights or fractionally owned planes could use the runways. 
Theodore J. Forstmann, the New York financier who resuscitated the Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation a decade ago, said that the Federal Aviation Administration's no-fly policy for some private airports was a royal pain. 
"Teterboro is closed, so you have to go White Plains," he said. "But everyone's going to White Plains. Which means you have these long waits on the ground. So then we try Morristown, but that's a long drive. But you get off the ground a lot easier." 
And there are other kinds of drawbacks. Mr. Buatta, for instance, said that he would probably take up one of his clients' offers to fly out on a private aircraft. 
"But the worst part," he said, "is that I'll probably have to get a flight back on my own."

GRAPHIC: Photo: NO FUSS -- A Gulfstream jet patiently awaits its Paris-bound passengers at Teterboro Airport. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Drawing (William Bramhall)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (88%); AIRLINES (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (63%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (60%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (60%); INTERIOR DECORATING (56%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TWEEZERMAN INTERNATIONAL LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%)

PERSON: REESE WITHERSPOON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



218 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2310 words

HEADLINE: Companies' Big Debts Now Carry Big Risks 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
FOLLOW the money. In the harsh, new world after Sept. 11, that axiom applies more than ever.
 The United States is almost certainly in a recession, and many companies and their investors now face a stark future. Even companies whose operations were humming in early September are vulnerable to what may become a protracted slump. 
 Those with the shakiest prospects became obvious immediately -- travel and entertainment companies, for example. And as trading in the bond market slowed to a crawl in recent days, all kinds of companies in need of cash to keep operating found themselves out of luck. Much of corporate America is overextended. 
During the boom, "things were so good that a lot of folks loaded up on debt and on employees," said David Trone, senior regional bank stock analyst at Prudential Securities. "Now it has quickly unraveled. You have a whole lot of industries with overcapacity." 
Many heavy borrowers, Mr. Trone said, are at great risk.
Last week, Polaroid, in default on nearly $1 billion in debt and with little excess income, seemed to be on its way to filing for bankruptcy protection -- and it is by no means alone. 
Renaissance Cruises, a privately held operator of cruises, shut down and filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 25. A lawyer for the company said it had failed because it could no longer finance its operations, and negotiations with prospective lenders and investors had broken down after the terrorist attacks. 
Even companies that are not as close to the edge as Renaissance are imperiled by a nation of newly parsimonious consumers. At risk are department stores, like Nordstrom; furniture manufacturers, like Ethan Allen Interiors; and consumer electronics and personal computer companies, like Gateway. Until last month, ebullient American shoppers had kept the economy out of recession, but this crucial source of revenue and profits is largely gone. 
Like sand in the gears of a well-oiled machine, these financial stresses impede the economy's ability to rev up and exit the downturn. 
"You had a number of things aligning," said Stuart C. Gilson, professor of corporate restructuring at the Harvard Business School. "Excessive confidence among consumers and companies and easy access to debt capital meant banks made a lot of bad loans, and a lot of high-yield bond issues were made to companies facing extreme risks. This one's going to take a little longer to work through the system."
INVESTORS may be especially unprepared for the wringing out of these risks. In recent years, Wall Street has largely ignored the high levels of debt lurking on the balance sheets of many companies. Instead, analysts obsessed over revenue growth and earnings, if companies had any. 
But bond investors, the professional worriers of the financial markets, closely monitor debt loads and a company's ability to pay interest obligations. The actions of those investors can tip off others to problems that more freewheeling and forgiving stockholders ignore. 
In recent weeks, bond investors have had a lot to worry about. Corporate debt has not reached dangerous levels across every industry, but overall debt has risen substantially in the last five years. As a percent of net worth, corporate debt has risen to 77 percent last year, from 73 percent in 1995, according to the Federal Reserve. 
Not surprisingly, many companies have run short of cash and have simply stopped paying their obligations. Default rates on corporate bonds have already zoomed past the levels seen in the last recession, in 1990. By August, even before Sept. 11, default rates on high-yield bonds had reached 9.6 percent, above the 8.7 percent peak of 1990, according to Fitch Inc., a credit rating agency. Almost $56 billion in debt was in default as August began, roughly double the amount of defaults in all of 2000.
Rising defaults, along with other evidence of credit problems in corporate America, have been percolating through the economy for some time. As early as the third quarter of 1998, the number of debt downgrades began exceeding upgrades, said Diane Vazza, head of global fixed-income research at Standard & Poor's. They have done so ever since -- for 13 consecutive quarters. That is well beyond the 11 consecutive quarters of higher downgrades around the recession of the early 1990's.
"We've been in a manufacturing recession," Ms. Vazza said. "Certainly consumer confidence was shaken enough by the events of Sept. 11 that it shoved us into recession." In the three weeks after Sept. 11, S. & P. downgraded $162 billion in debt issued by 45 companies, but upgraded only $44 billion issued by 9 companies.
Until now, the credit problem has generally been limited to a handful of industries -- manufacturers and, most notably, telecommunications companies. Investors who dreamed of endless demand for broadband, wireless and other communication technologies are now haunted by telecom companies' debt binge from 1997 to 1999. Of the $74 billion in debt that has defaulted this year, $31 billion was by telecom companies. 
Now the weakness is spreading, striking companies that, until recently, had been enjoying hefty profits, courtesy of spendthrift consumers. 
No more. Richard D. Hastings, a research fellow at the Credit Research Foundation and credit economist at Cyber Business Credit in New York, said a new hesitation among consumers about spending money poses the gravest threat to the world economy. 
"Consumers will postpone purchases of anything that is postponable," Mr. Hastings said. "As demand suddenly drops, already overinventoried positions in many suppliers will result in weaker prices as firms attempt to raise cash quickly and maintain competitive positions."
Personal spending, which grew almost 4 percent in the fourth quarter of 1999 over the same period a year earlier, has been steadily dropping since. Mr. Hastings estimated that in the third quarter, these expenditures grew 1 percent to 1.35 percent, dealing a blow to companies dependent on free-spending Americans. 
Feeling flush, consumers have for years spent more than they have made, and they, too, are entering this recession with heavy debt and no cushion. Consumer debt was $1.6 trillion in July, more than double $783the billion 10 years ago, according to the Federal Reserve. This year, households are using 14.35 cents of every dollar of their disposable income to pay interest, compared with 12.35 cents in 1995. 
That burden becomes only heavier when rising layoffs are added to the mix. Companies cut almost 200,000 jobs in September, the biggest decline in a decade. On Wednesday, the Ford Motor Company, one of the nation's largest employers, warned that plants could be closed if its manufacturing costs did not come down quickly.
For many companies, the problem is just that: high fixed costs, some of which are interest payments, set against declining revenue. The nine reductions in interest rates by the Fed this year will not help some companies that need to refinance their debt. For them, the capital markets are either closed or still asking rates that are out of their reach. 
The picture is not bleak for every company. Many took advantage of the incendiary stock market of the late 1990's and raised money there, rather than in debt markets. As a result, said Sam DeRosa-Farag, director of global leverage finance at Credit Suisse First Boston, most companies have more conservative capital structures today than they did 10 years ago. 
"In 1988, the average debt was 90 percent of capitalization and equity was 10 percent," Mr. DeRosa-Farag said. "Today, debt is 60 percent and equity is 40." (Conservatives, though small in number, would say that anything over 40 percent debt is risky.)
THIS time, some sectors that were hammered in the last recession are in stronger condition, at least for now. Retailers, for example, were the casualties in the 1990's, thanks to leveraged buyouts that loaded them with debt. These days, retailers are in much better shape, Ms. Verde of Fitch said. Less than one-third of the retailers that have issued high-yield bonds are in the two lowest credit rankings: B or CCC. 
"That's not to say they won't deteriorate," she said. "But it would be much more troubling if they had a greater percentage of lower-rated bonds." 
On another positive note, the mix in the overall high-yield bond market -- which includes riskier companies -- is skewed more toward higher-quality issues today than it was going into the last recession. Martin S. Fridson, chief high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch, said that at the end of 1989, only 30.5 percent of the junk bond market was made up of the highest-rated securities -- those rated BB -- while 55.7 percent was of lesser-quality, B-rated securities and 13.8 percent were CCC. 
Today, however, securities rated BB dominate the market -- a 47.5 percent share. B-rated debt is 39.3 percent and CCC-rated bonds are 13.2 percent.
But even if the recession is not long, or deep, many companies have amassed large debts and are watching nervously as their revenue shrinks. The Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. DeRosa-Farag said, sharply increased the chances of defaults.
Not surprisingly, from Sept. 6 to Sept. 20, the probability of defaults rose significantly for aerospace companies, whose airline customers are wobbling with cash problems of their own. And default probabilities also jumped in the telecommunications sector during that time, to 44.4 percent from 42.6 percent. 
More surprising, information technology has also been hit, with default probabilities rising to 12.3 percent from 6.9 percent. Among cable and wireless video companies, Mr. DeRosa-Farag said, that number rose to 17 percent from 13 percent. Others with increased default probabilities were wireless communications companies, chemical makers and forest product and container companies.
Of telecom and cable companies, Mr. DeRosa-Farag said: "These credits are highly dependent on the availability of credit. There is a whole crop of companies that are going to miss the availability-of-credit window."
LOOKING at industry trends, Mr. DeRosa-Farag has broken down vulnerability to the current slowdown into three categories. 
Those industries that should not be badly hurt include food companies, health care providers, broadcasters and, at least in the short term, energy companies. Those that will be sensitive to the downturn, he said, include automotive suppliers, gambling operations, homebuilders, media companies, paper manufacturers, metals concerns, technology and wireless telecommunications companies.
Industries most likely to be hurt, he said, are chemical companies, lodging and leisure companies, retailers and clothing makers, the transportation sector and telecommunications.
Bond investors, attuned to changes in companies' financial footing, reacted quickly after Sept. 11, selling securities of companies whose prospects had dimmed. As bond prices fell, yields increased. Yields on bonds issued by textile and apparel companies, for example, jumped to more than 22 percent in mid-September from about 19 percent in mid-August. For makers of cars and car parts, bond yields climbed to 26 percent from 19 percent, and for restaurants, to 14 percent from 13 percent.
Yields on some bonds issued by Tricon Global Restaurants, owner and franchiser of 30,000 Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Kentucky Fried Chicken eateries, had risen to 11.75 percent by mid-September from 7.92 percent, and those of Pep Boys, an auto parts retailer, rose to 10.89 percent from 8.14 percent. 
"There's not a lot of bottom-fishing going on," Mr. Fridson said. "People are getting out of downgrades before they happen or they're trying to upgrade in quality." 
Bond investors may have backed away from these companies, but stockholders have not abandoned many of them. While a bond of the Dana Corporation, a maker of components for cars and trucks, fell to $905 in mid-September, from $960 in mid-August, its shares are not cheap, trading at 24 times current earnings and two times sales.
At Hasbro, the toymaker, the yield of one bond rose to 12.5 percent from 9.7 percent, but its shares are trading at 38 times its estimated earnings versus 21 times for Mattel.
Investors also appear to think that regional banks will emerge unscathed from a recession, because the Fed is lowering interest rates so aggressively and they are not exposed to the telecommunications meltdown. 
But that view is wrongheaded, said Mr. Trone at Prudential Securities. "All industries are under pressure, but we would certainly expect the banks to underperform," he said. "We're not talking about an insolvency issue, like the 1990's. We're talking about earnings risk."
Mr. Trone says the Pacific Century Financial Corporation, a regional financial services holding company with operations in Hawaii, Asia and the South Pacific, is particularly vulnerable. The company is heavily dependent on the isolated and tourism-reliant economy of Hawaii. A slowdown in Japanese tourism has now been exacerbated by a dearth of American visitors. 
"This will have a substantial impact on the middle-market companies they lend to and the real estate companies," Mr. Trone said. 
Nevertheless, the stock, which he rates a sell, closed at $20.65, up 16.8 percent for the year to date. It is trading at more than one and a half times its earnings growth rate and 14 times its expected earnings. 
Even healthy banks that do not rely on tourism will be hurt by a recession; Mr. Trone pointed to Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc. The company has a conservative management team and operates in Texas, where the economy had remained strong. But on Sept. 28, its shares fell 27 percent when it said its 2001 profit would be less than expected, in part because of an increase in loan loss reserves. 
"If this can happen to Cullen/ Frost," Mr. Trone said, "this can happen to anyone."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Money & Business on Oct. 7 headlined "Companies' Big Debts Now Carry Big Risks" discussed the falloff in consumer spending since Sept. 11. The article cited a cruise operator that had filed for bankruptcy protection, and then said that even companies that were not close to the edge were imperiled by consumers' cutback in spending. That passage gave several examples, including Ethan Allen Interiors. 
The mention of Ethan Allen in a discussion of indebted companies was not warranted. Ethan Allen executives say the company is "virtually debt-free."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Until last month, ebullient American shoppers had kept the economy out of recession and manufacturing companies busy, including many furniture makers. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. 1); As consumer spending slows, many retailers, including a Payless Shoe store in Fremont, Calif., above, have started to cut prices. The parking lot at an electronics store in Fremont, left, usually full on Friday afternoon, had room to spare. The slowdown is also expected to affect the paper industry. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); (Above, Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; below, Walter Hodges for The New York Times)(pg. 9) Chart: "Bond Market Losers"A sampling of companies whose bond prices declined after Sept. 11. The selloff reflects fears that the companies might falter in a recession. Falling bond prices push yields up. Adelphia CommunicationsRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +0.24YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 9.47%YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 13.53% AES CorporationRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.24YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 8.12YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 9.92 Allied Waste IndustriesRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.44YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 7.37YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 9.35 Boyd GamingRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.31YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 7.93YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 10.36 Dana CorporationRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.81YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 8.03YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 10.77 HasbroRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +0.03YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 9.7YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 12.5 HollingerRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.55YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 8.55YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 10.86 The Pep BoysRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: -0.48YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 8.14YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 10.89 Sinclair Broadcast GroupRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +1.04YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 8.67YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 10.94 Tricon Global RestaurantsRATIO OF CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS: +4.50YIELD ON BONDS, AUG. 15: 7.92YIELD ON BONDS, SEPT. 17: 11.75 (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Merrill Lynch)(pg. 9) Chart:Many industries are poorly positioned for a slowing economy . . . Trailing 12-month ratio of cash flow to interest expenses for the five largest issuers of high-yield bonds in each industry. A ratio of 3 is considered acceptable. CASH FLOW TO INTEREST COSTS Computers and electronics: 0.9Chemicals: 1.9Leisure and entertainment: 2.0Textiles and furniture: 2.1Broadcasting and other media: 2.5Transportation: 2.5Automotive: 2.7Paper and forest products: 2.7Retail: 2.8Gambling, lodging and restaurants: 3.0 . . . increasing the likelihood of defaults on high-yield debtProbable default rate on high-yield bonds for each industry over the next 12 months. TelecommunicationsRATE ON SEPT. 20: 44.4%2-WEEK CHANGE: 4.2% Cable and wireless TVRATE ON SEPT. 20: 172-WEEK CHANGE: 2.4 Consumer nondurablesRATE ON SEPT. 20: 172-WEEK CHANGE: 30.8 TransportationRATE ON SEPT. 20: 14.82-WEEK CHANGE: 2.8 Wireless communicationsRATE ON SEPT. 20: 12.62-WEEK CHANGE: 7.7 Information technologyRATE ON SEPT. 20: 12.32-WEEK CHANGE: 78.3 Metals and mineralsRATE ON SEPT. 20: 11.42-WEEK CHANGE: 4.6 ManufacturingRATE ON SEPT. 20: 10.42-WEEK CHANGE: 8.3 Forest productsRATE ON SEPT. 20: 7.82-WEEK CHANGE: 36.8 ChemicalsRATE ON SEPT. 20: 72-WEEK CHANGE: 27.3 Diversified mediaRATE ON SEPT. 20: 4.92-WEEK CHANGE: 6.5 BroadcastingRATE ON SEPT. 20: 4.92-WEEK CHANGE: 14.0 AerospaceRATE ON SEPT. 20: 4.82-WEEK CHANGE: 269.2 Food and tobaccoRATE ON SEPT. 20: 4.62-WEEK CHANGE: 7.0 ServicesRATE ON SEPT. 20: 3.82-WEEK CHANGE: 31.0 Gambling and leisureRATE ON SEPT. 20: 1.32-WEEK CHANGE: 44.4 (Sources: Fitch Inc.; Credit Suisse First Boston)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BONDS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); RETAILERS (69%); HIJACKING (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); FURNITURE MFG (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) CREDIT; DEFAULTING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: ETHAN ALLEN INTERIORS INC (53%)

TICKER: ETH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS337122 NONUPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (53%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES, FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (53%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (53%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (53%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



219 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: Making Sure the Rich Stay Rich, Even in Crisis 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
MARIA ELENA LAGOMASINO was giving a speech to private bankers in Geneva last month when she was interrupted with the news that hijacked jetliners had plowed into the World Trade Center. As soon as she learned of the terrorist attack, Ms. Lagomasino, chairwoman of the J. P. Morgan Private Bank, raced to Morgan's office to check on colleagues in New York, then started calling her wealthy clients there and in Hong Kong, Buenos Aires and elsewhere around the world. The clients -- individuals and families worth $100 million, on average -- rely on Morgan to help them manage and protect their fortunes.
 "We felt it was important to force the issue and to think about what would happen," Ms. Lagomasino, a petite and elegantly tailored woman, said in an interview last week. "We wanted them to think about how this would affect the economy and the market. 
 "Since our clients were rich, our No. 1 concern was their staying rich," she said. "We wanted to make sure we put in place whatever defensive actions they need to do that." 
Ms. Lagomasino knows her territory. Her charges are people and families with net worths of at least $25 million, and they include more than one-third of the people on Forbes magazine's list of the 400 wealthiest in the world. The private bank, a part of J. P. Morgan Chase that oversees $300 billion in assets, is the largest such institution in the United States and second in the world only to UBS Warburg Private Banking. 
J. P. Morgan is a mainstay of the rapidly growing industry of advising the superwealthy -- a group whose purchasing power has been known to inflate overall consumer spending, a significant part of the economy -- and Ms. Lagomasino is perhaps the most visible of the world's growing ranks of private bankers.
"What you want from a banker is pure, unadulterated, honest opinions," and she is "an honest broker," said Gary Winnick, the embattled chairman of Global Crossing, who is both a client and a friend of Ms. Lagomasino. Earlier this year, he asked her to join the board of Global Crossing.
Private banking was once denigrated as "walking the dog," or "taking care of people with inherited wealth who don't have the capability to do anything themselves," as one banking executive put it recently.
But during the 1990's, as the world's wealth soared, J. P. Morgan and other top banks pushed to attract the growing number of multimillionaires as clients, especially those who own their own businesses, have sold businesses or run big public companies.
There are 60,000 families worldwide with net worths of $30 million or more, according to a report released in May by Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, a consulting firm. At the time, the number of superrich people was growing 5.8 percent annually, although recent market declines may have slowed or even reversed that rate.
Even if the number of very wealthy families does not grow as rapidly as it did in the 1990's, private banking will remain attractive because banks can earn returns of 20 to 25 percent on their investments in the business, according to a person close to the J. P. Morgan Private Bank.
Both Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan were active in private banking before their merger last year, and the combined operation became even more of a powerhouse. In August, Ms. Lagomasino inherited sole control of the private bank after her co-head, James E. Staley, who had run J. P. Morgan's private banking operation before the merger, was made head of the combined bank's private banking and investment management operations. Ms. Lagomasino reports to him.
She says roughly 70 percent of the Morgan bank's clients made their own fortunes, rather than inheriting them. In some cases, that has presented special problems because the World Trade Center tragedy increased the risk of extending and deepening stock-market declines. A number of Morgan's customers had taken loans against their stock holdings, and a precipitous market decline could set off margin calls.
"You have business people who have borrowed from their personal wealth to fund business investments," she said, her soft voice suffused with a slight accent reflecting her childhood in Cuba. "When the market looks good, they say: 'I will take stock and borrow against it for business.' " For some of these clients, she added, there could be "a problem with liabilities."
AFTER 25 years in the private banking business, Ms. Lagomasino can talk at length about such transactions.
Ms. Lagomasino was born in Havana in 1949 and emigrated to the United States with her family when she was 11, to escape the revolution led by Fidel Castro. Her family left behind her parents' properties and her grandparents' cigar and cigarette business. "We went first to Connecticut, and we were the only Cubans," she said. "It was difficult but wonderful."
Business was not an obvious career choice, but after majoring in French at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., and working in the library at the United Nations, she took an aptitude test that suggested she had business skills. Friends got her an interview at Citibank, where, after being hired, she was intrigued by private banking. "My clients were like my family," she said. "I always felt that if my grandfather, who lost his money, had had a private banker like me, somebody would have protected him."
Ms. Lagomasino, who eventually earned an M.B.A. at Fordham University, was running a Citibank private banking operation in southern Latin America in 1983 when she left to join Chase Manhattan. At Chase, she rose to become managing director and then the executive in charge of global private banking by the time Chase merged with J. P. Morgan.
Though Ms. Lagomasino is extremely secretive about her client list, it is said to range from prominent heads of public companies to families that control privately owned businesses. The private bank says it has clients in 36 countries; about 30 percent of Ms. Lagomasino's clients live outside the United States.
That means she has a heavy travel and social schedule, here and abroad. Mr. Winnick recalled that he met Ms. Lagomasino over dinner with David Rockefeller, the retired chairman of Chase, at Le Bernardin in Midtown Manhattan.
"I was impressed with her from Day 1," Mr. Winnick said. "She is the personification of what makes America great. She was an immigrant and rose through the system to the chairmanship of Chase private bank, working against whatever obstacles to succeed."
She also has the experience to help Mr. Winnick protect his fortune, which is still tens of millions of dollars even after his Global Crossing holdings have fallen to 83 cents a share, from a peak of $64.25 in May 1999.
"I wanted to talk to someone who was smart and understood it from a generational perspective," he said. "For me, I wasn't looking for a money manager. It was a person to tell you what other families were thinking: how they were doing things.
"It's like having a shrink," he said. "You don't have to give them the keys to your house, but you have to know they will give you advice based on your needs, not their needs."
In 1999, when Mr. Winnick was host for a dinner at the Claridges Hotel in London for a who's who of Britain's social and business elite, including Margaret Thatcher, King Constantine of Greece and Lord Saatchi among others, he seated Ms. Lagomasino next to him.
Some private banking clients turn over their investing decisions to J. P. Morgan. Others, including Mr. Winnick, do not. Mary Erdoes, a Morgan managing director at the private bank, said that of the $300 billion under supervision, the bank makes investment decisions on about $160 billion. For the balance, it helps advise the clients Its overall track record is almost impossible to evaluate because the bank releases no performance numbers. Some money is managed in-house, and some is delegated to outside managers.
The performance in various asset categories varies greatly. The bank's equity fund, for example, is off about 18 percent so far this year. "The fund is geared to outperform the public equity markets, and both have continued to do so," Ms. Erdoes said, citing the 19 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
Wealthy families, however, want services beyond straight money management. Sometimes they want help for their businesses, too. For example, J. P. Morgan does not handle Mr. Winnick's investments, but Mr. Winnick's investment company, Pacific Capital, was part of the restructuring group led by the Softbank Corporation that acquired the Japanese bank Nippon Credit.
"Pacific Capital paid in dollars but it was a yen company," a person close to Mr. Winnick said. "That is fine if the yen and dollar remain in place. But his private bank would come back and say, 'You should provide some type of hedge against your yen exposure.' " This person recalled adding that Mr. Winnick "made as much money in the yen hedge as he made in the investment." Chase had arranged the hedge for Mr. Winnick, borrowing yen in an amount equal to what he had invested in the Japanese company, then selling them immediately for dollars. When the yen weakened, the bank bought back the currency at the lower exchange rate, and Mr. Winnick pocketed the difference.
Another client "wanted a Jack Kerouac manuscript more than anything," Ms. Lagomasino recalled. "We helped him figure out what it was worth, and we bid on it for him, although he didn't get it," she said. The bank also makes loans against art collections and private jets.
The bank also provides myriad other services. For instance, Morgan has worked with William Zabel, a trusts and estates lawyer at Shulte Roth & Zabel, to create charitable lead trusts. These allow clients to leave "a huge amount of assets to children without triggering a gift or estate tax," Mr. Zabel said.
AT the same time, Morgan is ready to offer traditional advice about asset allocations. Here, even before the World Trade Center disaster, Ms. Lagomasino had been pushing clients to take a more conservative stance in United States equities by shifting from small caps to blue-chips. Afterward, she pushed even harder. "Our clients are very successful people, and they want to be sure that they feel smart and feel they are in control," Ms. Lagomasino said. "We had conversations with clients who wanted to do things to protect themselves."
Clients with a lot of their wealth in cash were cautioned against rushing back into the equity markets. Other clients who had large positions in a single stock and had borrowed against them were advised to protect themselves.
"Several clients who had loans that were collateralized by stock put collars on the stock they had so they could protect themselves against margin calls," said Cornelia Spring, Morgan's product manager for derivatives. A collar involves a set of transactions that lets a stockholder protect the value of his stock, so that even if it declines, he or she does not face margin calls. After the World Trade Center catastrophe, clients "put on collars in spades," she said.
Thomas H. Lee, who heads the leveraged-buyout fund that bears his name and is a J.P. Morgan Chase national advisory board, said he believed that after the stock market rout of 1987 and the market turmoil caused by the collapse of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund in 1998, rich people became more cautious about equities and diversified into alternative investments like hedge funds.
"Those were really shots across a lot of people's bows," he said. "I think people are more diversified."
Even so, Ms. Lagomasino is still cautioning her clients to diversify and warning them that the rapid growth of the 1990's is over. But the most important message has been about when to act and when to wait. "We wanted them to understand how this would affect every piece of what they did," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lagomasino (Alex Quesada)(pg. 1) Chart: "Maria Elena Lagomasino"Chairwoman and chief executive of J.P. Morgan Private Bank. PREVIOUS POSITIONS'97-'00 Head of Chase Private Bank.'94-'97 Market executive for the Americas region of Chase.'89-'94 Manager of Chase's Western-Hemisphere area.'83-'89 Manager and divisionexecutive for Chase International. ON THE BOARDS OF-- Philips-Van Heusen-- Global Crossing-- Avon Products EDUCATION-- Manhattanville College B.A.-- Columbia University M.S.-- Fordham University M.B.A. (Source: J.P. Morgan Private Bank)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE BANKING (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); HIJACKING (90%); FAMILY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WOMEN (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); DOGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CAPGEMINI SA (60%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); CAP (PAR) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); HONG KONG (90%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



220 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: After the Shock: Is This the Bottom? 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE hijackers brought down the World Trade Center and traumatized a nation. But it is not as clear that the economic damage they wrought will be long lasting.
 The immediate economic impact was devastating. Consumers seemed to go on strike. Retail sales plunged; so did auto sales. The airlines shut down for days, then opened with so little business that Congress quickly approved a bailout. 
 But the picture has brightened a bit. The industries most sensitive to lower interest rates -- cars and housing -- have bounced back more than people expected. 
"There was an initial shock impact," said Henry Kaufman, the economist and money manager. "The shock impact is moderating, but how much is not clear."
Nearly all economists think the economy is contracting now, and most think the contraction will last long enough to go down in the books as the first recession since 1990-1991, thus ending the longest period of expansion in American history.
Retailers' statistics show business is up from the immediate aftermath, when Americans were glued to television sets, but is still below normal. At Home Depot, said Robert L. Nardelli, the president and chief executive, sales began to pick up the weekend after the attack. "Based on a depressed economy, we're back to normal," he said.
In other times, a depressed economy would deeply alarm investors. But the stock market rebounded enough to erase most of the plunge that occurred in the week after trading resumed on Sept. 17. That reaction may, however, only show that everything is relative: Parents might view a report card filled with C's and D's as good news if they had expected the child to flunk out of school.
It is not the same as making the dean's list, of course, and the continuing surge of layoff announcements makes it clear that many companies are deeply worried about their businesses. Indicators like weekly steel production, which reflect the pace of the industrial economy, show no signs of improvement.
The tourism industry suffered immediately. Just before the attack, the number of passengers carried by 11 top airlines was running about 1.2 percent above year-earlier levels, said David Swierenga, chief economist of the Air Transport Association, a trade group.
For a few days after planes resumed flying, the volume of passengers was down by more than 50 percent from the levels of last fall, but that has improved until the comparable figure was off just 29 percent on Thursday, the latest data available.
THAT decline is not being caused just by skittish consumers worried about terrorism. Businesses, responding to the slow economy, were also cutting back even before the attack, and have cut back more since.
In the spring, the Cintas Corporation, a Cincinnati-based maker of corporate uniforms, told its executives to drive rather than fly if the trip was fewer than 200 miles. After the attack, said Robert J. Kohlhepp, the chief executive, that limit was raised to 300 miles.
For the airlines, a 30 percent fall in traffic would be bad enough; the revenue implications are worse. Fares were already lower than in the previous year, and now carriers are cutting them aggressively.
Even before Sept. 11, the American economy was probably in recession. The September employment report, released on Friday, showed a loss of 199,000 jobs during the month, the largest decline in more than a decade. Almost none of that reflects activity after the attack, and there has been a surge of layoff announcements since then.
"We now have a more dramatic pace of firing, and that is what is going to weigh on consumer spending," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company. "It is not a loss of nerve. It is lost paychecks."
EVEN Warren E. Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway and a man not usually given to fear-mongering, sees no easy way out of the current economic problems. "I'm sure we are in a recession, probably a relatively deep and extended one," he said in a memo to employees of his company a week ago.
This recession was shaping up as a very unusual one in any case. In the usual American recession, rising interest rates brought on as the Federal Reserve tightens monetary policy cause consumers to cut back spending, and the housing and auto industries are the most drastically affected. Only after that impact is felt does industrial production begin to slide.
But this downturn was looking like a backward one even before the attack. September will go down as the 12th consecutive month of declining industrial production, tying a record set just after World War II, when the economy was winding down from war production.
The slowdown had been preceded by an incredible boom in corporate investment, largely in the technology and telecommunications industries. That boom had both contributed to and been enhanced by the stock market bubble, which sent stocks of such companies to dizzying heights and gave them all the money they could use for investment. But the bubble burst in the spring of 2000, leading to the slowdown in investment.
Some economists had thought they saw signs that the industrial part of the economy was no longer getting worse. "In the nontech sector, there were signs of a bottom," said Ian Shepardson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics, a research firm.
Postwar recessions have lasted from 6 to 16 months. They usually end after substantial Fed interest rate cuts, which make cars and houses more affordable and unleash pent-up demand, creating a surge of growth.
This recession, however, has yet to see the housing market plunge, and nonresidential construction had held up surprisingly well until it began to soften this summer. The automobile industry has been hurt, but it has done far better than its executives expected. The Fed's aggressive easing has helped those industries, though it has also made it less likely that they will be able to lead the economy out of the recession, simply because there is less scope for rapid growth in demand. And no one thinks that the pace of investment spending in technology will soon recover to its previous pace.
Just what the engine of growth will be is not clear. The longest postwar recession, which lasted 16 months, occurred in from 1973-1975. That was also the last time the major world economies -- those of the United States, Western Europe and Japan -- were in recession at the same time, as they may soon be if the current slowdown in Europe continues to worsen.
Then, the first oil shock had devastated all developed economies. Now the reasons are more varied, but the result could be the same. With no major economy in a position to lead, it could take a while for the economic stimulus efforts to have an impact.
The bear market that accompanied the 1973-1975 turndown was the worst since the Great Depression, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index falling 48.2 percent before it bottomed out in October 1974, five months before the recession ended. At its closing low on Sept. 21, the S.& P. 500 had declined 36.8 percent, making it the second-biggest drop since the Depression.
For investors who grew accustomed to big profits during the 1990's, the current investment scene presents difficult choices. An investor who wants absolute safety must settle for returns of less than 3 percent on short-term government securities. But buying stocks seems like a greater risk than it used to.
Mutual fund investors moved out of stock funds during the first two weeks after the attack, but came back in the week ended Wednesday. Clearly, many hope that the recession will be a short one, and that last month's lows will not be breached.
Those who are betting on a mild recession are hoping that the Fed's continued easing of credit and a stimulative fiscal policy will get the economy moving. Washington politicians -- who were trapped in a debate about Social Security lockboxes before the attack -- now are arguing about the best way to put together a stimulus package. Since tax cuts may be saved by the recipient, public spending probably has more recession-fighting firepower.
Perhaps the largest uncertainty is how Americans will respond to the continuing bad news on the economic front -- not to mention to the possibility of further terrorist attacks or to military actions by the United States. Those who are most pessimistic about the next six months assume that consumers will cut back and increase savings, worried that the next round of layoffs might touch them personally.
Every post-World War II recession, except for the most recent one, in 1990-1991, had at least one quarter in which the economy fell by at least 4 percent. The current quarter is the one most likely to be that bad, particularly if the effects of the attack linger. Such a fall might leave the economy ready to rebound, but it might also alarm consumers and delay a recovery.
But perhaps that will not be the case. For the last decade, it has been the optimists who turned out to be right. Already, applications for mortgages to buy homes have rebounded to nearly their pre-Sept. 11 level, even as unemployment rolls have hit levels not seen since 1991.
That deep optimism among Americans helped keep the economy growing even as industrial production plunged over the last year, and may have contributed to the rebound in sales seen in the last couple of weeks. It won't keep corporate profits in many industries from being devastated, and it won't keep overextended companies from being forced into bankruptcy. But it might make this recession milder and shorter than it otherwise would have been.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new terminal at Bradley International Airport at Windsor Locks, Conn. While airlines are suffering, construction has been holding up. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The wait for unemployment assistance has increased in Honolulu, where the tourism industry has suffered. (Cory Lum for The New York Times); Angela Kaufman, right, whose picture-framing business in Fremont, Calif., has slumped, with an employee. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Shoppers have returned to places like the Riverhead, N.Y., mall as the initial shock of the attacks has waned. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); Executives of Vivendi Universal at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Stocks have risen for the last two weeks after a steep retreat. (Associated Press)(pg. 10) Graphs show AIRLINE PASSENGERS (Change from last year); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE RECIPIENTS (Change since June 30); CHAIN-STORE SALES (Change in retail sales); NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS (Change from June/July average). (Sources: Air Transport Association; Haver Analytics; Instinet Research Redbook Average; Economy.com)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); STATISTICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); STRIKES (72%); APPAREL MFG (61%); INTEREST RATES (56%); HISTORY (53%); TOURISM (50%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CINTAS CORP (80%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: CTAS (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812332 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (80%); SIC7218 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (80%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



221 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Fuzzy Math Returns

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Post-terror nerves aside, what mainly ails the U.S. economy is too much of a good thing. During the bubble years businesses overspent on capital equipment; the resulting overhang of excess capacity is a drag on investment, and hence a drag on the economy as a whole.
 In time this overhang will be worked off. Meanwhile, economic policy should encourage other spending to offset the temporary slump in business investment. Low interest rates, which promote spending on housing and other durable goods, are the main answer. But it seems inevitable that there will also be a fiscal stimulus package. 
 That package should include only measures that really will promote spending now, when the economy needs it. It shouldn't include anything that worsens the long-run budget position more than is necessary, or anything that looks like "hitchhiking," exploiting the short-run difficulties of the economy to pursue unrelated long-run goals.
Unfortunately, the Bush administration has just taken a big step away from those principles.
Until late last week it looked as if much of any stimulus package would consist of increased government spending to rebuild New York, to pay for military operations and to provide unemployment benefits. This would put money into the economy in a clearly temporary way.
Giving money to lower-income families would also be sensible. The problem with temporary tax breaks is that you can't be sure people will spend them; in fact, the much-vaunted rebate seems to have gone mainly into the bank rather than the economy. The chances are better if the money goes to poorer people, whose spending is often constrained by simple lack of cash.
But the big-ticket items in the stimulus proposal sketched out by administration officials on Thursday, and reaffirmed by George W. Bush after a meeting with Congressional hard-liners, are thoroughly wrongheaded -- and they suggest that bipartisanship is over, that we're back to the cynical budget politics of the past.
One key proposal is a permanent new tax break for business investment. This violates the basic principle that stimulus proposals should be only short-term. Furthermore, it would probably have only a modest effect on business investment now, when there is excess capacity; but it would increase long-term interest rates, by increasing both future deficits and future business borrowing. And since long-term interest rates are what matter for housing, on balance this measure might well delay recovery instead of promoting it.
Another key administration proposal is an acceleration of tax cuts for higher income brackets that under current law are not scheduled to happen for several years. On the face of it this idea seems bizarre: it gives money to precisely the people who are least likely to spend it. Is this just a case of knee-jerk conservatism, of the belief that tax cuts for the affluent are the answer to all problems?
Alas, no: it's worse than that. The real reason to accelerate the Bush tax cut is surely to forestall the growing likelihood that part of that tax cut will eventually be rescinded.
Over the last couple of months the long-run budget outlook has darkened dramatically; we've gone from arguments about whether the Social Security surplus would be raided to the prospect of deficits plain and simple as far as the eye can see. A natural response, once the slowdown is over, would be to cancel some or all of the tax cuts, mainly for upper brackets, that are scheduled to happen in 2004 and beyond. As a political matter, that will be much harder to do if the cuts have already gone into effect. 
And that, surely, is why the administration wants to accelerate the tax cut. It's being billed as a short-run stimulus proposal, but it's really a case of covert hitchhiking. 
To add to the insult, a preliminary analysis of the numbers suggests that fuzzy math is back: the administration appears to be greatly understating the true budget cost of its proposals and pretending that a package that consists overwhelmingly of tax cuts is evenly split between tax cuts and spending. 
As far as one can tell, the ultimate shape of the fiscal stimulus package is still fluid. The package that eventually emerges could be genuinely designed to help the economy, or it could be mainly a vehicle for political opportunism. Sadly, the latter possibility has just become much more likely. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); FAMILY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); CONSERVATISM (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



222 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
A Rally Spurred by Technology Buying

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
As the horrific memories of Sept. 11 dimmed slightly, technology stocks dominated the market last week, snapped up by investors who decided to take a chance on the sector, which had long been battered. Their buying on Wednesday strengthened the Nasdaq market by nearly 6 percent, its biggest one-day gain in more than five months. 
 Despite earnings warnings from several companies, including MGM Mirage, Jack in the Box and Sun Microsystems, the market was upbeat for most of the week. 
 Investor sentiment was helped, in part, by earnings affirmations from the technology bellwethers Dell Computer and Cisco Systems and by the Federal Reserve, which on Tuesday cut its benchmark interest rate to 2.5 percent, its lowest level since the Kennedy administration. On Wednesday, President Bush proposed $75 billion in government spending and tax breaks to help revive the sluggish economy.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrials rose 272.21 points, or 3.1 percent, to 9,119.77. The Nasdaq composite index gained 106.50 points, or 7.1 percent, to 1,498.80. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 30.44 points, or 2.9 percent, to 1,071.38. SHERRI DAY

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" UALNYSE: UALThe parent of United Airlines was among the first to announce extensive reductions on both domestic and international fares since the terrorist attacks.Friday's Close: $18.10Week's Change: -0.88%EST. '01 P/E: -- Compaq ComputerNYSE: CPQThe PC maker warned that it had lost money in the third quarter because of a severe slowdown in sales after Sept. 11 and price competition with Dell Computer.Friday's Close: $8.82Week's Change: +6.14%EST. '01 P/E: 88.20 Dell ComputerNNM: DELLDell offered investors some cheer by predicting that it would meet sales and profit forecasts for the third quarter of its fiscal year as demand for its computers rebounded faster than expected.Friday's Close: $22.56Week's Change: +21.75%EST. '01 P/E: 25.64 GlobespanNNM: GSPNThe maker of circuits that enable high-speed data transmission over copper phone wires agreed to buy Virata in a stock transaction valued at about $587 million.Friday's Close: $9.18Week's Change: +1.55%EST. '01 P/E: -- GeronNNM: GERNThe biotechnology company said its scientists successfully used a new technique that could help them grow large amounts of human stem cells in a purer form than is now available.Friday's Close: $12.65Week's Change: +31.77%EST. '01 P/E: -- GlaxoSmithKlineNYSE: GSKThe pharmaceutical company said it was creating a national discount program for low-income elderly people who lack prescription drug coverage, reducing the price of its drugs by 25 percent or more.Friday's Close: $56.70Week's Change: +1.03%EST. '01 P/E: 26.51 Wal-Mart StoresNYSE: WMTThe retailer said it planned to open about 230 stores next year in the United States, its largest annual increase in retail space. It also plans to open as many as 130 stores in other countries.Friday's Close: $52.40Week's Change: +5.86%EST. '01 P/E: 35.07 GenentechNYSE: DNAThe biotechnology company said that it would delay submitting an experimental drug for treating psoriasis, after the Food and Drug Administration asked for a new study.Friday's Close: $41.51Week's Change: -5.66%EST. '01 P/E: 55.72 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (72%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); JACK IN THE BOX INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (72%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); JACK (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



223 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: The Right Stimulus For the Economy 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 We agree with Robert E. Rubin (Op-Ed, Sept. 30) that the Sept. 11 attacks increase the likelihood of a more prolonged economic downturn, but his reluctance to embrace corporate tax cuts as part of an economic stimulus package is unwise. 
 Mr. 
Rubin overstates the cost of reducing the corporate tax rate. A cut of five percentage points would cost about $19 billion a year -- reducing federal receipts by less than 1 percent annually -- a very modest item in a $2 trillion federal budget.
A stimulus package must be highly visible and broad-based if it is to boost both consumer and business confidence. Cutting the corporate tax rate, accelerating individual rate reductions already enacted and repealing the alternative minimum tax will achieve that without undue impact on the budget. But moving quickly is more important than our specific proposals.

JERRY JASINOWSKI
President, National
Association of Manufacturers
Washington, Oct. 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TAX LAW (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



224 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
New York City May Issue More Notes, Mayor Says

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
The $1 billion in one-year notes that New York City sold last week to help finance recovery from the attack on the World Trade Center may be just the beginning.
 Individual investors bought more than one-third -- or $387 million -- of the securities, roughly double the normal proportion, said city officials and bond traders, who attributed the interest to popular desire to help the city rebuild. 
Issued by the New York City Transitional Finance Authority, the notes were oversubscribed within two hours. 
 People were eager to "make a statement that they support New York," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said.
"We were oversubscribed by four times," he said. "That means we had $4 billion offered for $1 billion worth of bonds, so we should go out and get the other $3 billion."
For New York residents, the securities were exempt from city, state and federal tax. Yields were 2.13 percent. By contrast, taxable one-year Treasuries were yielding 2.43 percent on Tuesday, when Bear Stearns the managing underwriter of the municipal notes, priced them.
Proceeds will pay for expenses related to the attack, like unemployment insurance premiums, overtime, contractors' charges for removing debris and costs of housing and feeding rescue workers.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT NOTES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); CITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); OVERTIME (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



225 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Public Investment, Reborn 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Priorities in the Wake of a Shattered Taboo" (Economic View, Sept. 23) Louis Uchitelle observed that the events of Sept. 11 would almost certainly shatter a nearly quarter-century of de-emphasis of government spending. 
 I agree with him that child care would be one good beneficiary of increased public spending, but I would also propose a national rail system. 
If recent events did not do enough to highlight the airlines' vulnerability, the necessity of increased security will certainly put a significant drag on any rebound they have. 
If we created a national system of tracks and licensed private companies to operate on it (with government operating or subsidizing less profitable runs), our transportation situation would be vastly improved. Other countries have high-speed passenger trains; why can't we? 
The railroads were once an engine of American economic growth. In an era when we must deal with declining oil supplies, global warming and issues of national security, there is no reason that railroads can't assume that role again. 

JIM WALTERS
Iowa City, Iowa, Sept. 24


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TRAINS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); AIRLINES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



226 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Public Investment, Reborn 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 The United States now needs public investment more than tax cuts, and not only because of the new spending required for security. Yes, we also need improvements in education (including early childhood education and child care), health care, surface transportation and technology for state and local governments. We also need to extend unemployment pay. Such investment can stimulate the economy at least as well as tax cuts -- and result in greater fairness and a stronger future.

WILLIAM B. SHORE
Tarrytown, N.Y., Sept. 24

The writer is a senior associate at the Institute of Public Administration, which studies government management, and is secretary of the Regional Research Consortium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (87%); CHILDREN (87%); WRITERS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



227 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Ideal Farms vs. Industrial Farms 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
No matter what their stand in the muddled debate last week over billions of dollars in subsidies to America's largest farmers, all sides promoted the family farmer, a position rooted in the Jeffersonian ideal that "those who labor in the earth are the chosen people of God."
 But Jefferson's yeoman farmer was a straw man: the real issues were 21st-century questions of corporate interests, the environment, global trade and budget constraints. 
 The traditionalists in the House who want to save commodity subsidies won the first round on Thursday in what is becoming a rare public battle to reshape farm policy, normally left to the agriculture committees. They beat back an effort to redirect billions of dollars in farm aid into environmental programs and won passage of their version of the farm bill, 291 to 120. 
Instead of trimming subsidies, as the Bush administration had hoped, the House bill increases them.
Now the $171 billion, 10-year farm measure faces review by Senate leaders and the administration officials who have said they are determined to transform 21st-century farming policy. Their goal, they say, is to puncture myths about rural America and bring farm policy in line with international trade agreements and modern agricultural economics, which they say will help all the farmers left behind. 
House members who want to preserve the current system of underwriting production of certain commodities leaned on the romance of the farmer in debate last week. 
Congress was reminded of dairy farmers rising at dawn to make sure city mothers have fresh milk for their children. Grain farmers were praised for providing Americans with the safest and least expensive food in the world. 
Yet the vast majority of farmers, the men and women who fit the Jeffersonian image, are ineligible for the big commodity subsidies. 
Representative Marion Berry, a Democrat from Arkansas who receives hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies, said he would hate to see the United States as dependent on foreign food as it is on foreign oil in time of war.
For most agricultural economists, these arguments are as dated as Walker Evans's photographs of sharecroppers in the Depression.
"Our problem is surplus food, not scarcity," said Prof. Bruce Gardner of the University of Maryland. "Commodity prices are so low that we wouldn't see surplus without subsidies, but there is always a question of how much of a safety net do we need. It's really high now and this House bill makes it even higher." 
Unlike in previous debates, urban lawmakers asked why $171 billion was being set aside for farmers in a program that favors the largest farmers, who never have to prove they need the money.
"Are farmers more noble than plumbers, or the welfare mother who has to go back to work and isn't qualified for a dime?" asked Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts. "This is a debate about corporate welfare for farmers that is finally boiling over."
The Bush administration addressed the issue last month in a 120-page farm policy meant to coax Congress away from these commodity payments and toward programs that favor global trade, the environment and all of rural America, not just the larger farmers. 
Administration officials also claimed the mantle of Jefferson.
Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman went on Agrinet, the farm radio network, last week to promote the Bush plan -- and criticize the House farm bill -- using appeals to the little farmer and rural values.
"We believe a farm bill needs to help all of rural America, not just the few farmers who receive commodity payments," she said. 
Instead of those huge payments, she said, large farmers must find profits in the global marketplace, and learn to respect trade agreements. 
In farm policy, at least, the World Trade Organization is proving to be the strongest bond between free-traders and the environmental movement. The commodity payments in the House bill could break the trade limits, while conservation programs not only keep more farmers on the land, they comply with international trade agreements.
Because farmers and ranchers own half the land in the continental United States, countless environmental groups are sounding Jeffersonian as well, championing these smaller farmers in the belief that they will determine the fate of countless species of wildlife, of open spaces and of clean air and water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FACTORY FARMS (88%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GRAIN FARMING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (55%); MARION BERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



228 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Legal Residency Hopes of Millions Dashed 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
In the summer, a bolt of hope shot through this city as the Bush administration edged toward granting legal residency to millions of illegal immigrants from Mexico and perhaps other countries.
 When the movement seemed to slow, President Vicente Fox of Mexico, in talks at the White House, sought to rebuild momentum for the proposal that would give individuals and families the prospect of moving out of the shadows and into mainstream working-class life. 
 But that momentum has died. Not only has the plan been abandoned since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, but the White House and Congress are moving rapidly toward making the immigration laws even tighter, out of fear of terrorist attacks. 
Maria Blanco, national senior counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said the crisis had sent a chill through both legal and illegal Hispanic immigrants because the message coming from Washington now is that the greatest threats to the country may be coming from foreigners.
"People are very disappointed that, so soon after the debate seemed to be moving forward on immigration, it has taken a few steps backwards," Ms. Blanco said. "Latinos don't want to be tainted by this broad brush."
What is particularly disappointing to some advocates for undocumented immigrants, they say, is that few groups have demonstrated more support for the United States during the crisis, often donating time and money at churches and organizations.
"Yes, people want to stay out of the way more and lie low now," said Mario Matute, the executive director of the Pacoima Workforce Initiative, a job training program in a San Fernando Valley neighborhood known as a gateway for illegal immigrants. "But you know what's interesting is that they talk more about being concerned about the attacks and the pain they feel for the victims. They're responding like other Americans, even if they may have more problems now."
For the immigrants, the sudden shift has pushed them back into lives that are an often clumsy balance of dreams and dreams denied, of an eagerness to join in and the pressures that keep them on the fringes.
In recent interviews in the Los Angeles area, a number of immigrants who have lived illegally in the country for years described how they have to navigate between an open society and the underground economy.
The lives they described are surprisingly close to the mainstream but that leave many basics, like health insurance or a bank account, out of their reach. They improvise, realizing that even the things they do have could be lost in a moment of carelessness, or bad luck. All the immigrants spoke on condition that their full names not be used.
Maria, a 17-year-old high school student who is an illegal immigrant from Mexico, spoke in an emotional interview of all the things she says she is forced to remain silent about when she talks with her friends: why she cannot get her driver's license, or go on a class trip to Acapulco, or attend her dream college, the University of California at Santa Barbara, despite her excellent grades.
Maria's life is one of concealment and anxiety as about whether she will end up working in garment factories like her parents or realize her dream of earning a degree in psychology and achieve her ultimate goal, running for office.
Rocio came to Los Angeles from Mexico 10 years ago, crossing the border in the trunk of a smuggler's car. After working in garment sweat shops, she discovered her talent, sales. She said she now works in telemarketing, selling cosmetics, jewelry and clothing by telephone.
But her dreams are hampered by her illegal status. She could not open a bank account or sign up for utilities at her rented home -- or sign a lease -- without a Social Security card. So, she said, she paid several hundred dollars for a bogus Social Security card, which she bought at MacArthur Park near downtown, where there is an open market in the phony numbers. But every time she uses it, she said, she worries that she will be caught.
She and her husband are still trying to create a normal family. Her daughter is now in the third grade and attends a public elementary school, where she is eligible for free meals. But the family has no health insurance, and even minor illnesses are a constant worry.
Rodolfo, 36, moved here three years ago from Mexico and lives with his mother, who is a legal resident. He said he gets many of his jobs standing on street corners and frequently works at construction sites. One of his greatest concerns is that if his boss decides not to pay him at the end of the day, which he said had happened several times, he has no recourse.
"All I want is to get what I'm owed," Rodolfo said, sitting next to the giant television and the new stereo in his mother's handsome rented apartment here.
Maria has ridden an emotional roller coaster many times. Recently, California instituted a program under which all students who graduate in the top 4 percent of their high school classes are guaranteed entry to state colleges. Maria said her expectations soared, until she realized that she was ineligible for financial aid and inexpensive in-state tuition rates.
"So now, when my friends talk about college, I get kind of silent and just listen to them," she said. "I take A.P. classes like the rest of them," she said, referring to the more difficult advanced placement courses some students take. "I get good grades like them. They'll go to their dream schools. I know I can't."
Carlos came here from Peru. He was a member of the city council of his medium-sized town, he said, and he had a grocery wholesale business. He came here a year ago to live with a sister, who has legal status, after the Peruvian economy sank and his businesses crumbled.
Since arriving and overstaying his tourist visa, he said, he has taken some odd jobs, including work as a security guard. But his real love, he said, is telemarketing, and he is setting up his own business. He found a bank that allowed him to open an account. He talked his way into getting a driver's license, and he bought a car with cash, though he has no insurance.
Another one of his sisters, Haydee, came here illegally three years ago. Though she said she had a university degree from Peru in social work she works in a hospital kitchen but fewer hours than she would like. She said she had lost one car after being pulled over by the police. She had no license and the car was impounded. She did not dare try to get it back.
"I gave up some things leaving Peru, and you have to give up things here, too," Haydee said. "I worry about what I may have to give up next if something happens. That's what you think about. What you want to work for but what you could lose any time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haydee, who came to the United States illegally three years ago, says she earned a university degree in her native Peru but now works in the kitchen of a Los Angeles hospital. A brother is also in this country illegally. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATIONAL FUND (56%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



229 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Struggle to Make Do in Difficult Economic Times; 
Computer Expert Turns to Odd Jobs To Help Pay Bills

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: GREENFIELD, N.H., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
 If the United States was teetering on the edge of recession before Sept. 11, the terrorist attacks were a decisive shove over the edge. The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has soared to a nine-year high. "This is just the initial wave of layoffs due to the attacks," Steven Wood, an economist, said. "There's another wave behind it." 
 Workers have confronted the same difficult task: absorbing the shock of unemployment and figuring out what to do next.
The last year or so has been full of watersheds for Dario Carrara. He married. He bought a rustic house in this out-of-the-way town down a dirt road shaded by poplar and pine. And, six months ago, he lost his job.
A computer engineer who specializes in telephone networking, Mr. Carrara, 35, fell victim to the general softening of the economy and, more specifically, the tanking of the technology industry. His employer, Tellabs, a maker of communications equipment, canceled the product line Mr. Carrara was working on when it cut 6 percent of its work force, or about 550 people, in April.
The job prospects were not great for Mr. Carrara before Sept. 11. He had had no luck with a handful of interviews over the summer. But the terror attacks have made things even harder, he said, so much so that he has pretty much given up hope of finding a job in his field soon.
"Things were getting worse with the economy, and now this," said Mr. Carrara, sitting on the red stone patio he built with his newfound free time. "We're just now starting to see the ripple effect, first with the airlines. It doesn't take much and companies go from wanting to hire to not wanting to hire."
Three headhunters have been working on his behalf, but since Sept. 11, his telephone has been decidedly silent.
"The way you judge a headhunter's attitude about your prospects is how often they call you," Mr. Carrara said. "They've just been calling me less and less, and now I call them."
Over the last few months, Mr. Carrara, who did construction work in college, has done odd jobs for relatives and friends: helping an uncle put in storm windows, splitting wood and rototilling the lawn for a neighbor. He works Sundays at a garden shop in nearby Peterboro.
He has busied himself with home projects, building a stone wall around the front flower beds and rebuilding a good part of the house's back porch. He has taken to making wreaths from soft green princess pine fronds, and is hoping the garden store will sell a few of them at Christmastime.
Mr. Carrara is helped by the fact that his expenses are low. He and his wife, Melissa, 40, rent out part of their home to a tenant, and share the rest only with a pale yellow cockatiel named Harley, who camps out on a perch in the kitchen, near a wood-burning stove the Carraras call on for heat during the frequent winter power disruptions in this remote neck of the woods. Their mortgage, about $650 a month, health insurance and land taxes are their primary expenses.
Ms. Carrara, a former schoolteacher, now makes about $20,000 a year selling women's clothes at a store in Peterboro.
Still for a man used to earning more than $80,000 a year, being jobless has been tough.
"I've been a little depressed," he said. "My wife has noticed, she has told me, I'm more irritable. You start to second-guess yourself." Among other things, Mr. Carrara feels whiplashed by the free fall his industry seems to have taken. Other people he knows in the field have resigned themselves to being out of work for a while.
Mr. Carrara's job search is further hampered by his desire to commute no more than 75 minutes each way from his house, which is about 90 minutes northwest of Boston. Bordering on the lush 600-acre Greenfield State Park, it is so serene that except for the large American flag draped on his house, it seems one of the few places where there is virtually no hint of the devastating terrorist attacks.
Mr. Carrara said he was planning to wait another couple of weeks, but if nothing turned up in his field, he would have no choice but to look for other employment, maybe working for a friend's company, measuring fences.
"The weather's going to get cold and the days are going to get short and I'm going to get some sort of full-time job just to bring in money," he said. "I'm really one of those people that needs to do something productive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: LOW-TECH BACKUP -- Besides doing odd jobs, Dario Carrara, 35, an unemployed computer engineer, makes wreaths from pine fronds and hopes to sell a few at Christmastime. (C. J. Gunther for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (63%); CHRISTMAS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TELLABS OY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



230 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Struggle to Make Do in Difficult Economic Times; 
A Time for Reflection and Perfecting the Chicken Fricassee

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 5 

 BODY:
 If the United States was teetering on the edge of recession before Sept. 11, the terrorist attacks were a decisive shove over the edge. The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has soared to a nine-year high. "This is just the initial wave of layoffs due to the attacks," Steven Wood, an economist, said. "There's another wave behind it." 
 Workers have confronted the same difficult task: absorbing the shock of unemployment and figuring out what to do next.
As a managing director at Charles Schwab, the company synonymous with do-it-yourself online trading, Norman Rosenblatt worked in the trenches of the California boom economy. He joined the company -- was it only last year? -- in a hiring blitz reflective of the crazed optimism that infused San Francisco. It seems almost quaint now, he says.
"The word of the day was don't let the system go down, don't let anything stand in the way of a customer and a trade," said Mr. Rosenblatt, 56, who lost his job in the technology services division Sept. 25, one of 1,600 to 1,900 employees to be laid off in the second round of major cuts that, combined with attrition, will reduce Schwab's work force by 25 percent by the end of the year.
Mr. Rosenblatt, who grew up in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and lives in Oakland, was laid off the day before the Jewish holiday Yom Kippur. "That was the day I was theoretically supposed to be reflecting on my life," he observed, with deadpan humor.
The latest layoffs were announced more than a month ago, the result of the stock market downturn and the steep drop in trading. But it was not until last week that employees found out who would be cut. The mood was edgy. Mr. Rosenblatt, the father of three girls, had a gut feeling that his job, which involved tracking proprietary technology projects within the company, was vulnerable. "It was a background task, never part of the limelight," he said. "I kept thinking like Groucho Marx: If I were them, would I keep me?"
He says he has never defined himself solely by his job. He remains a bit of a "60's person," unenamored of corporate America until he joined Schwab, a company he still considers humane, he says. He worked for 3 years at Bank of America and then for 13 as an independent contractor. He went to college and business school at New York University and has always gravitated toward statistics and computer programming.
His first foray into the work world was in the garment district of Manhattan with his late father, Jacob, an accountant, "sitting on piles of zippers with a ledger book on my knee."
The company has given him a generous severance deal -- he would not give details -- which has staved off "utter panic," he said. After working 35 years and never taking time out, part of him welcomes the opportunity to reassess his priorities. He is permitting himself a couple of weeks of "heavy introspection." But there are realities to consider, most notably his wife, Lorraine, who has multiple sclerosis and whose treatment was largely covered under the corporate health plan.
He has been thinking about past roads not taken. He mulled over a longtime fantasy of becoming a chef -- briefly. "You have to chop carrots for years," he said. "By the time I got to sauces I'd probably be ready to retire."
He has used his enforced vacation to perfect his mother's chicken fricassee recipe. He is considering going back to the technical side of computers, which is "more sanity provoking" than being a manager. "I'd like to have a product I can point to, to recapture the tangible," he said.
He said he had no illusions about what lay ahead. "I'm not optimistic," he said. "It isn't pretty out there."
As a native New Yorker, he said, it has been difficult for him to separate the gloom of the terrorist attacks from the dread and unease of his job loss. "I don't want to call myself a victim, because we're all victims," he said.
He would consider "repatriating" to New York. He has a deep sense of forboding about the economy, predicting that the upheaval at Schwab, combined with the dotcom bust, will prompt a major exodus from the Bay Area. "It's hard to consider myself Tom Joad," he said. "But maybe I am."

GRAPHIC: Photo: AVOIDING PANIC -- A generous severance deal eased the pain of Norman Rosenblatt's layoff as a managing director at Charles Schwab. (Thor Swift for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); ONLINE TRADING (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); YOM KIPPUR (69%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



231 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Struggle to Make Do in Difficult Economic Times; 
Necessities Suddenly Become Luxuries

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Oct. 5 

 BODY:
 If the United States was teetering on the edge of recession before Sept. 11, the terrorist attacks were a decisive shove over the edge. The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has soared to a nine-year high. "This is just the initial wave of layoffs due to the attacks," Steven Wood, an economist, said. "There's another wave behind it." 
 Workers have confronted the same difficult task: absorbing the shock of unemployment and figuring out what to do next.
Exactly two weeks after the terrorist attacks, Renaissance Cruises went out of business and Deirdre Phillips found herself out of work. She immediately went into survival mode.
A single mother who had worked in the accounts receivable department of Renaissance Cruises, which is based in this tourist city, Ms. Phillips had to decide what bills she could delay paying. Things she had considered necessities just weeks ago suddenly became luxuries that had to go.
"I used to go to the supermarket every two weeks," said Ms. Phillips who is 41 and lives with her two sons, ages 11 and 17. "I didn't go to the supermarket this time. We're trying to stretch things."
She immediately began looking for a new job, but with every day that she returned home without one, she wondered when things will start running out.
"I waste gas going around filling out job applications and I just wonder what will happen when this tank runs out," she said. "I used to have my hair done, pedicure and manicure every two weeks. I've had to cancel that. I usually rent movies on Fridays. I haven't been able to do that."
"I usually order pizza on Fridays," Ms. Phillips added. "Not anymore. I've been in the kitchen cooking lately and trying to cook enough that it will last. I cooked yesterday and you bet that's the same thing we'll be eating today." She made beef steak with gravy and onions served over white rice.
Now, though, maybe Ms. Phillips can afford a few more pizzas. Late this evening Renaissance Cruises called her back to work temporarily to help close its books.
A high school graduate, Ms. Phillips has worked for Renaissance Cruises for five and half years. When she lost her job she was making $12.75 an hour.
Until this evening, Ms. Phillips had mentally prepared to get by on about $1,000 a month in unemployment checks, which is about $400 less than her take-home pay. She also receives $500 a month in child support from the father of one of her sons, and expects to receive about $3,000 from a 401(k) account after paying penalties for withdrawing the money early.
Suddenly, though, there were new decision to make. Should she leave the money in the 401(k), and could she afford to turn down temporary work to stay the course on her search for a permanent job?
With expenses that include $675 in rent and a $342 car payment that she is behind on, Ms. Phillips decided to go back to Renaissance until the work runs out. "This way I'll still be making my full pay," she reasoned. "I can hold on a little longer, but who knows what could happen tomorrow."
Renaissance Cruises, after all, shook her sense of security earlier this month, saying it would cease operating because of an unexpected drop in business after the terrorist attacks. 
Now, Ms. Phillips said, the call from her old boss will provide an unexpected break that she realizes other people who are out of work will not likely receive. She is angry about the disruption of so many lives and livelihoods.
A Bronx native, Ms. Phillips realizes that her hardship does not compare with the losses that others have endured. "At least I'm still here," she said. "It may be rough right now but I still have my life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: IN SURVIVAL MODE -- Deirdre Phillips is juggling bills, cutting expenses and worrying about the gasoline she burns looking for a new job outside the hard-hit travel industry. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (54%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



232 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed Struggle to Make Do in Difficult Economic Times; 
Grounded on High-Flying Dream Job

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: EAST BETHEL, Minn., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
 If the United States was teetering on the edge of recession before Sept. 11, the terrorist attacks were a decisive shove over the edge. The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has soared to a nine-year high. "This is just the initial wave of layoffs due to the attacks," Steven Wood, an economist, said. "There's another wave behind it." 
 Workers have confronted the same difficult task: absorbing the shock of unemployment and figuring out what to do next.
The brass and glass lampshade got a round blue sticker: sell. The good Christmas ornaments got orange: keep. Patio furniture, from back when she had a deck: blue. Same for the dried flowers from her long-ago garden, the door wreaths, the end tables, two televisions, a wooden birdhouse. But when Penny Bloomquist picked up the off-white vase with the pink ceramic flowers sticking out, her hazel eyes began to spill tears again.
"This can't go," said Ms. Bloomquist, 41, who was just laid off from her dream job as a flight attendant for Northwest Airlines. "I know it's kind of gaudy, but it's a vase that my grandma had. She was the flower nut, like me."
The garage sale Ms. Bloomquist is planning for next weekend in this small town an hour north of Minneapolis is just another droplet in the ripple effect from the Sept. 11 attacks. In March, she leased out her five-bedroom house and put a life's worth of stuff in storage so she could attend Northwest's six-week training program. Now she can no longer afford the $95-a-month rent on bin 430 at Storage World off Highway 65.
"It's not even the right time of the year to have a garage sale," she said, sighing as she sorted. 
Northwest expects to cut 10,000 jobs, nearly half of them at its Minneapolis hub. About 2,400 flight attendants with at least six years of experience accepted voluntary furloughs; for 312 it was involuntary. Ms. Bloomquist's seniority number, 11,370, was below the cutoff.
Today, she sat at the dining room table in the home of a friend where she is renting a room for $250 a month, sifting through an application for unemployment benefits; financial aid forms for her 19-year-old son, who hopes to attend school in Houston to learn about race cars; and the photographs of her two boys and her boyfriend that she carried on every flight.
She hopes a small airline, like Minneapolis-based Sun Country, might have jobs, or that Northwest will rehire. Maybe, she said, after 10 years of being divorced and 7 dating another man, it is time to marry again. For now, she is focused on the garage sale -- one step at a time.
"I've had a lot of tears because I'm feeling sorry for myself," said Ms. Bloomquist, whose gross August pay was $2,109.58. "Then I feel bad for feeling bad because other people have it so much worse."
After quitting high school and getting her G.E.D., Ms. Bloomquist met and married an older man, and had children. She worked as a medical assistant, tended bar, did nails and sold flowers. But since age 14 she had admired her mother's friend Carla, a flight attendant for the old Braniff Air.
So last spring, she sent her younger son, Jacob, now 15, to live with his aunt, gave away her beloved cat, Sam, and enrolled in Northwest's six-day-a-week training program. Once she got her wings, she flew for five months, to Jackson, Miss., Sioux Falls, S.D., Bismarck, N.D., and Anchorage and Nashville and Memphis.
"The last couple months, I had to almost pinch myself because I was so happy," she said. "I feel like a bird when I'm in the air."
As she left the storage locker this afternoon, Ms. Bloomquist popped Martina McBride into the CD player in her white Grand Am, to play the song that had motivated her through flight attendant school.
With a broken wing, she still sings,
She keeps an eye on the sky.
With a broken wing, she carries her dreams,
You ought to see her fly.
"I still have my dreams," Ms. Bloomquist said. "My dream is just to be back in a safer world, maybe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: AN URGENT SALE -- Deciding what to sell, Penny Bloomquist went through belongings she put in storage while training to be a flight attendant, a job that lasted five months. (Matthew F. Witchell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); AIRLINES (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); CHRISTMAS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



233 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: More Bad Economic News For Faltering Caribbean 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

DATELINE: NASSAU, the Bahamas, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The suicide attacks that reduced the World Trade Center and part of the Pentagon to rubble have also shaken economies throughout the Caribbean, with island after island facing drastic reductions in American tourists and their dollars. 
 Arrivals at most hotels and resorts in the region are about half of what they should be, a slight rebound from the days after the attack when nervous travelers canceled as much as 80 percent of bookings for September and October. 
 Already injured by the sluggish United States economy, owners had to confront cancellations and reduced airline flights, forcing them to lay off staff and close some restaurants and attractions, or halve the workweek and paychecks. 
Government ministers have met almost daily since Sept. 11 to consider requests from business owners for a moratorium on duties, payroll taxes and utility surcharges, or help with covering loan payments. 
Caribbean heads of state will convene on Thursday in the Bahamas to coordinate a regional response to the emergency while tourism officials rethink their marketing campaigns. 
Leaders have already begun to warn residents that a sustained military escalation in Afghanistan could deal a devastating economic blow and lead to cutbacks in public spending and perhaps even rationing of basic goods to conserve dwindling foreign exchange reserves.
While future reservations, especially for the critical winter season, have begun to inch upward, the loss of recent business and uncertainty about the future have already taken their toll.
"It has been a very serious situation," said John Bell, the chief executive officer of the Caribbean Hotel Association, whose members account for 110,000 rooms in 35 nations. "If we don't start to see improvements by mid-October, then I'll get pretty scared."
In the Bahamas, where tourism accounts for $1.8 billion, half the nation's income according to government figures, the slowdown is evident in the long lines of idle taxis, near empty casinos and the forlorn faces of the vendors on Bay Street, where thousands of tourists once shopped for everything from diamonds to wooden pipes. Vendors now consider themselves fortunate if they make one or two sales a day.
"The terrorists said they attacked the buildings in the name of oppressed people," said Telator Strachan, the president of the Straw Market Vendors Association, which already had been struggling with its own disaster the week before the attacks when an arsonist destroyed the famous wooden bazaar. "But what they have done is oppress people. They are oppressing us and depressing us."
The government is considering requests from the tourist industry to suspend a 17 percent utilities tax, as well as other measures to allow larger operators to avoid layoffs, which so far have been minimal. 
At Our Lucaya resort on Grand Bahama Island, guests have been consolidated into one of the new resort's three towers, while employees on a reduced workweek take advantage of the lull to paint and clean rooms. One guest, Sean Sullivan, was alone in the workout room as he lifted weights. He said he had no fear of flying, since he was a pilot from Atlanta and knew that airport security was at a record high.
"I feel comfortable," he said. "If I was worried I wouldn't have come. I got the gym all to myself this time. And I got a discount haircut."
In the Dominican Republic, where tourism replaced sugar as the nation's biggest earner in the 1980's, thousands of workers were temporarily furloughed and several hotels in Punta Cana closed down. The smaller operators who have little savings and high debt and expenses were hit the hardest.
"The season was not good before Sept. 11," said Mauricio Bonetti, manager of the Tropic Banana in Las Terenas, who had to lay off 21 of his 27 staff members. "Now it is paralyzed. I have only two rooms occupied out of 27. And I am worried for the high season, which starts in November. Almost all the calls or e-mails I receive are cancellations." 
The smaller islands, like those in the Eastern Caribbean, which may need to rely on outside help from international institutions like the World Bank, are the most vulnerable.
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, the bank's Caribbean department director, said the bank was already considering emergency steps to spur public works projects. 
"That way they can start with civil works employing people who will be leaving the tourist sector," she said. "The thing you don't want is having people unemployed and out on the streets."
In return, she said, the countries would have to commit themselves to improving airport security to meet United States standards and take steps to reform the banking sector to prevent terrorists from channeling money through ask-no-questions banks.
Most countries stopped all advertising in the United States after the attack. Cut off from a primary source of tourists, they looked for new opportunities, wooing conventions and weekend vacationers from their own countries or refocusing their efforts on drawing tourists from Europe and Canada, where there were few cancellations.
Tourism officials in several islands pumped millions of dollars into new advertising to lure Europeans, who they said would be wary of visiting the Middle East, Turkey or North Africa given the current international tensions. But officials remain cautious. 
"Everything depends on whether people are comfortable getting back on aircraft," said Vernice Walkine, deputy director general of tourism for the Bahamas. "Nobody knows what this war might mean. If there is troop action, there is the potential Europe could shut down, too."
Meanwhile, hotels in the Bahamas have begun to offer discounts, teaming up with American Express for all-inclusive deals that offer savings of more than $500 per person.
Some countries have even begun trying to court American tourists once again, starting with advertisements that express support and solidarity, while trying not to seem opportunistic.
"It is a very difficult decision to make," said Allen Chastanet, Air Jamaica's vice president for marketing and sales. "Some felt we shouldn't have done anything. But the initial message we sent out was not a hard sell; it was a message. 
"At the same time," he added, "President Bush is trying to convince America to get back to some level of normalcy. What the Caribbean has to offer is a remedy for what they've gone through. They need to get away from big crowds and relax a bit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A lonely beach in the Bahamas. Countries across the Caribbean that depend on tourism, already hurt by the sluggish American economy, have experienced a downturn in tourism since the attacks in the United States. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESORTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TOURISM (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AIRLINES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); ARSON (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CARIBBEAN HOTEL ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); BAHAMAS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



234 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: A City Changed Forever? Maybe Not 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
It has become a widely repeated cliche in New York City in the last few weeks that the future can no longer be predicted because everything has changed. Amid all the losses after last month's terrorist attacks, there is a feeling that the city has lost its compass and its map to the future, too.
 But there is also a deep and substantial body of scholarship about how cities work in times of catastrophe, and how humans make decisions through the tumult of crisis and its aftermath. The inescapable conclusion of that research, the experts say, is that there are patterns to the events that unfold -- a sort of rough guide through the wilderness. 
 Cities, by and large -- with plenty of room for caveats and special circumstances, researchers say -- tend to be stubbornly resilient. The long-term historic momentum of a metropolis, as a collective human creation of ambition and energy, is a force that is far more powerful than the short-term chaos of disaster, however horrific or heartbreaking. 
By that body of evidence, which experts say has largely been validated in disaster-damaged cities as diverse as Miami and Kobe, Japan, there is reason for optimism. 
New York, before the attack, had become a global magnet for immigrants and strivers, and a high-energy playground for millions of tourists who began to arrive as the crime rate fell in the 1990's. Its population, after decades of stagnation or decline, had risen. And it had retained much of its role as a linchpin of global capitalism. Broad social trends like that can stall, researchers say, but hardly ever do they screech to a full stop.
"Disasters don't alter the course of social change," said Kathleen Tierney, a professor of sociology and director of the Disaster Research Center at the University of Delaware. "They may accelerate trends, but you don't see a reversal of what was already happening."
Professor Tierney said that based on the patterns of disasters past, New York -- barring future events that no one can predict -- will probably resume its previous trajectory.
Other experts say that while the optimistic generalizations may yet hold true for New York, the wrinkles and idiosyncrasies of a living city -- and the differences between what happened in Lower Manhattan and the pattern of natural disasters that have mostly been studied -- will also color the city's recovery. 
Most disaster research, for example -- from the Chicago fire of 1871 through the 1964 Alaska earthquake -- has focused on local trends that were heightened, and in many cases accelerated, by disaster. People who might have changed jobs, say, or moved, or bought or sold a business -- but had not done so yet -- are often galvanized, or forced, into action by disasters, researchers say.
After Hurricane Andrew in 1992, for example, an already noticed ethnic trend in southern Florida -- white residents moving out of Miami-Dade County into nearby Broward County, more Hispanic residents and immigrants moving in -- sharply intensified as families lost homes, built homes and made new choices. In Japan, the shipping port at Kobe was losing ground to Asian rivals like Pusan, South Korea, when an earthquake hit in 1995. The trend continued and intensified.
In other cities, like Chicago in 1871 and London in 1666, where vast swaths of urban landscape were destroyed by fire, upward economic momentum was so great that many residents and businesses could not be bothered with the grand redesigning plans that were put forward -- they rebuilt largely as before because commerce could not wait.
New York in 2001 does not exactly fit any of those models, partly because the local and global are so mixed together. Guessing where the economy might go even before the disaster meant taking into account the sales revenues at the corner deli as well as the Shanghai Stock Exchange. And the nature of the damage that occurred -- from a deliberate surprise attack -- has also become part of the equation, embedded into the discussion from Washington to Walla Walla about how the nation should deal with terrorism and the new issues of security. 
That newfound symbolic role could be positive for New York to the degree that rebuilding the city becomes an expression of patriotism or national political policy.
"I think there are some lessons we can learn from other disasters, but it is important to recognize the differences in New York as well," said Stephanie E. Chang, an assistant professor of geography at the University of Washington in Seattle. Professor Chang, who studied Kobe after more than 6,000 people died in its 1995 earthquake, said that in most natural disasters, older, weaker buildings and small businesses are hit hardest, and damage is usually widespread geographically.
The New York experience was completely opposite, she said. Damage was concentrated in a high-rise complex, and the businesses immediately affected were not the poorly capitalized, underinsured mom-and-pop companies that tend to be wiped out by natural catastrophe.
The World Trade Center attack also connects to national and global trends in ways that most natural disasters usually do not.
Travel and tourism around the world have been battered. Patterns and levels of immigration into the United States could be next. Some politicians in Washington, even as they appropriate money to rebuild New York, are talking about restricting the flow of immigrants as part of the nation's antiterrorism strategy. Peter Marcuse, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, said he believes that a key difference in New York is that rebuilding will not simply be a matter of engineering or design, as is usually the case in disasters. London city planners did not need to think about the possibility of another German blitz in rebuilding the city after World War II, he said. And when earthquake-damaged San Francisco rebuilt after 1989, the likelihood of more earthquakes was certainly there, but the response lay in better understanding of how buildings function, not in contemplating security or how symbols of global power might be seen half a world away in a terrorist training camp.
Other experts say that focusing only on rebuilding misses much of the social picture of where New York was before the attacks, and thus where it might be going. "People equate recovery with physical reconstruction, but there are all these other dimensions that go on," said Professor Tierney. "There also is social recovery to communities and ways of life, and psychological, emotional and spiritual recovery of a sense of place."
Some economists and planners say, for example, that social inequality in the city could be heightened in the trade center aftermath, if many residents with the means and inclination decide to move out of New York. Already, many economists say the effects of a downturn are likely to be felt disproportionately by the city's less affluent residents, many of whom work in service industries like restaurants and hotels that have seen their business sharply decline.
Others say that the symbolic importance that has been attached to New York, through the images of the disaster burned into the consciousness of millions who watched news coverage on television, has created a vast political momentum of its own that will not be stopped.
In the 1970's, when New York teetered on the verge of bankruptcy, the federal government declined to bail out the city and the nation did not seem to care. In an era when the people of Lubbock, Tex., can send a mural of sympathy to Pennsylvania Station, the winds have changed.
"This country has never been in these waters before, so there could be some danger from generalizing," said Dennis S. Mileti, director of the Natural Hazard Center at the University of Colorado at Boulder, which has one of the nation's largest research libraries of disaster research, with more than 27,000 bibliographic entries. "And there will be shifts and changes at the micro level. But if I were a betting man, I'd bet that if you come back in X years, New York will be right back where it would have been if this hadn't happened."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Oct. 7 showing St. Paul's Cathedral in London during German bombing in 1940, with an article about New York's prospects for rebuilding after Sept. 11, was reproduced in mirror image during transmission by The Associated Press. The clock on the south tower is at the right, not the left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: St. Paul's Cathedral in London stood resolute in 1940 as German planes bombed the city, destroying much of the surrounding area. (Herbert Mason/Daily Mail, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); HURRICANES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CRIME RATES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



235 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Reshapes Mayoral Runoff, But More for Green Than Ferrer 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
The terrorist attack on the World Trade Center has created sharp stylistic and policy differences between the two Democratic candidates for mayor, with Mark Green seizing on it as the central focus of his campaign, and Fernando Ferrer arguing that it should not overshadow existing problems confronting the city.
 The responses by Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green expose the divergent views of the crisis by two public officials with very different political and personal backgrounds. Each is trying to measure the impact of the bombing on the city he is seeking to lead, and on his campaign for mayor, in the heat of a tight contest. 
 The divergent reactions are the latest evidence, aides to both men said, that New Yorkers' response to Sept. 11 may vary based on where they live and their economic situation. Both campaigns are regularly polling voters to prepare for the primary runoff on Thursday. 
The central point of contention between Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green is over where the rebuilding should occur. Mr. Green, the public advocate, who lives in Manhattan, argued that the city should swiftly replace the office space lost in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Ferrer, who has been the Bronx borough president for almost 14 years, said that some of the construction should be spread out across New York, and that the attack was "an opportunity to pursue much-needed redevelopment opportunities" in boroughs that have resented Manhattan's economic dominance.
But the differences go beyond what or where to rebuild. 
Mr. Green raises the terrorist attack at almost every opportunity. He has proposed, in some detail, ways in which New York should direct its rebuilding effort, and how it should guard against future attacks and gird for widespread economic deterioration.
Mr. Green says that some promises he made before Sept. 11, like reducing the size of public school classes, would have to be deferred. He said any hope New York had of increasing spending on, say, housing construction was contingent on re-establishing the financial district as a source of tax revenue.
Mr. Green has used the issue to raise questions about Mr. Ferrer, describing his response as vague and late, and arguing that it showed that he was not prepared to lead New York through difficult times.
"If we have a mayor that doesn't appreciate that a big crisis requires big ideas and a nonpolitical response, the city could be in big trouble," said Mr. Green, adding, "He hasn't shown an appreciation for the magnitude of the problem, and responded more politically than substantively to this crisis."
In his own campaign appearances, Mr. Ferrer also calls the attack the most urgent problem facing the city. And at a debate on Tuesday, he said his promise to raise teacher salaries by 30 percent, in exchange for some productivity gains, may have to be put off.
But Mr. Ferrer, who ran on a promise to be an advocate of New Yorkers who had not prospered under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, argued that the attack should not eclipse the still urgent need to improve schools, health care and the housing stock. "They are the reasons I ran for office in the first place," Mr. Ferrer said in an interview. "It doesn't motivate me to ignore them. Some would say that all that stuff now is unimportant. Well, no."
While his campaign speeches include prominent mention of the attack, they are otherwise mostly indistinguishable from the speeches he made before Sept. 11. 
Mr. Ferrer continues to advocate sweeping governmental programs dealing with housing and health care, even after learning that the next mayor will have to confront a $4 billion budget deficit. After Mr. Green began challenging him for not engaging the issue of the attack, Mr. Ferrer delivered a speech about the attack Tuesday morning in which he proposed creating a blue-ribbon panel after Election Day to advise him on how to respond, and a "New York Rebuilds Corporation" to help oversee reconstruction. 
But that afternoon, he unveiled the surprise endorsement by former Mayor Edward I. Koch, and media coverage of the endorsement, not unexpectedly, eclipsed that of Mr. Ferrer's speech about the attack.
Mr. Ferrer declined to respond to Mr. Green's characterization of his response. "I really do take seriously the pledge we both made primary night not to launch attacks," he said. 
Like many New Yorkers, Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green may be influenced in their reaction to the attack -- and their assessment of how their supporters might react to it -- by the circumstances of their own lives. 
Mr. Ferrer lives in the Riverdale section of the Bronx; his borough president office is near Yankee Stadium, and he spends much of his time campaigning outside Manhattan. Mr. Green lives on the Upper East Side; his downtown office was closed for a week because of the attack. Mr. Green toured the site within two days after the attack; Mr. Ferrer waited about 10 days.
Aides to Mr. Ferrer said that in seizing on the attack, Mr. Green was, not uncharacteristically, attaching himself to a high-profile issue to draw attention to himself. They noted that Mr. Green had begun attacking Mr. Ferrer when polls showed that Mr. Green was facing a tougher runoff against Mr. Ferrer than he had expected.
"It seems that what Mr. Mark Green is doing is attacking Mr. Ferrer at every opportunity that he has," said Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic leader.
Mr. Green's advisers argued that Mr. Ferrer, in urging that the redevelopment be scattered in the other boroughs, was playing to resentment of Manhattan and its financial district in other parts of New York. Mr. Ferrer won the first round of the Democratic primary on Sept. 25 with an appeal to "the other New York," a description that he said was based on economic status but that also resonated outside Manhattan.
According to a survey of voters leaving the polls on Sept. 25, Mr. Ferrer won 23 percent of the Manhattan Democratic vote, compared with 45 percent for Mr. Green. But Mr. Ferrer won 64 percent of the Bronx Democratic vote, compared with 19 percent for Mr. Green, and 35 percent of the Democratic vote in Queens and Staten Island combined, compared with 25 percent for Mr. Green. The two men tied in Brooklyn, each getting 35 percent.
That same survey suggested other reasons why Mr. Ferrer is putting less emphasis on rebuilding. Among Democrats who voted for Mr. Green, 7 percent said they considered rebuilding the financial district the most important issue facing the city; just 1 percent of Mr. Ferrer's voters held that view.
And some analysts suggest that voters who were concerned about education and health care before the attack -- and who don't live near Lower Manhattan, work there or know anyone who does -- had not shifted their views to the extent that Mr. Green thinks. 
"Most voters are where they were before," said William Eimicke, a political science professor at Columbia University. "Education is still the biggest issue facing New York."
And the Rev. Al Sharpton, one of Mr. Ferrer's most prominent supporters, said Democrats who had argued that Mr. Ferrer had made a tactical mistake in not adjusting his message after Sept. 11 had been proven wrong by his first-place showing on Sept. 25.
"What all of the pundits are missing here is that turnout wasn't affected and that Freddy's message wasn't affected," he said. "Everyone can give whatever analysis they want: the voting pattern of the 25th was the opposite of Mark's strategy."
Mr. Green's and Mr. Ferrer's different responses have showcased stylistic differences between them. 
Mr. Ferrer has presented himself as a child of the streets of the Bronx, and greeted anything suggesting elitism with an edge of defiance. Mr. Green's campaign manager, Richard Schrader, described Mr. Ferrer's proposal to move some redevelopment away from Wall Street as "kind of a chump populism."
Mr. Green has been aggressive and resourceful in linking the attack to his campaign. He invoked it in a new television advertisement released this weekend -- "Which Democrat has a specific plan to rebuild our economy and increase safety and security?" the announcer asks.
And he has included on his public schedule funerals of firefighters who perished in the collapse. He made conspicuous mention of his sympathy calls during a televised debate on Tuesday night.
"I go to two funerals a day, it seems, and mostly of firefighters, and the police funerals are now just beginning," Mr. Green declared, adding, "I will never forget the 19 families I embraced at Squad 288."
Mr. Ferrer said he, too, had attended many funerals, but had not listed them on his public schedule out of respect for families' privacy. "I don't think it's seemly to keep track of these things," he said. "I'm not toting this stuff up. All I can tell you is, man, I'm going to too many."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer campaigned yesterday with Former Mayor Edward I. Koch and the Rev. Al Sharpton in Brooklyn, while Mark Green greeted voters in Queens with Betsy Gotbaum, a candidate for public advocate. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (59%); RICK PERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



236 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-32

Sharon Expresses Regret Over Warning To U.S.
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel apologized for what he called a misunderstanding caused by his warning that the United States risked appeasing Arab nations the way Europe appeased Adolf Hitler before World War II. The comment, made last week, caused three days of extremely turbulent diplomacy between the two allies. A3

Russia Shifts Stance on Plane
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia was said to have challenged Ukraine's insistence that it had not accidentally shot down a Siberian Airlines jet on Thursday, calling its version of events "incomplete." Another Russian said that many "foreign" objects had been found in the wreckage. A15

Mystery of France Explosion
Investigators working to figure out what caused the explosion at a petrochemical plant in Toulouse last month that killed 29 people have not yet been able to answer the basic question, whether it was an industrial accident or a deliberate act. A13

Carribean Economy Shaken
Economies throughout the Carribean, facing drastic reductions in American tourists and their dollars, have also been shaken by the Sept. 11 attacks on America. A6

NATIONAL A33-38

Hopes for Legal Residency Are Fading for Millions
The White House and Congress have been moving rapidly toward making immigration laws even tighter out of fear of terrorist attacks. This policy reversal has sent a chill through legal and illegal Hispanic immigrants. A33

Finding Lost Children
About 20,000 stores nationwide have instituted procedures for quickly finding lost children. The programs are named "Code Adam" for a boy abducted from a mall. A33

The New Jobless
The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has soared to a nine-year high since the terror attacks. The newly jobless have been finding ways to cope: taking odd jobs, selling some belongings, cutting back. A36

Worker Was Nazi Guard
A retired Ohio factory worker has been stripped of his United States citizenship for working as a guard at a Nazi labor camp in Poland during World War II. The man, Wasyl Krysa, 76, of Brooklyn, Ohio, has said he served the Nazis against his will. A United States district judge wrote in Friday's ruling that just by serving as an armed guard, Mr. Krysa ensured that prisoners could not escape persecution "because of their race, religion or national origin." (AP)

NEW YORK/REGION A39-42

Democratic Candidates Differ On Dealing With Attack
The attack on the World Trade Center has created sharp differences between the two Democratic candidates for mayor. Mark Green has made the attack the central focus of his campaign, while Fernando Ferrer is arguing that it should not overshadow other problems confronting the city. A1

OBITUARIES A44

John C. Lilly
A neuroscientist and writer who explored human consciousness, he was 86. A44

Chess A46
Weather A47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); DENATURALIZATION (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); WRITERS (60%); MAYORS (60%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (54%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); POLAND (78%); UKRAINE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



237 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INSURANCE; 
In U.S. Plan, Taxpayers Would Cover Terror Claims

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON with JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The Bush administration and Congress are preparing legislation to have taxpayers pay major insurance claims arising out of terrorist attacks.
 The plan would make the insurers the second major industry, after the airlines, to receive emergency government aid after the Sept. 11 attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center. 
 Government officials and corporate executives say such a measure, to be announced as early as this week, is essential to avert an economic meltdown at the end of the year, when many insurance contracts covering businesses, office buildings and factories expire. Without such coverage, lenders will not finance real estate purchases, construction or investments by business in plants and equipment. 
Some lawmakers question whether the plan would be an unjustified bailout, and whether the situation is as dire as corporations say. But already, major reinsurers, which protect other insurers against huge risks, have notified their clients and the government that they intend to sharply limit or curtail their coverage for terrorist attacks.
A government program may help limit future rate increases. As the most likely terrorism targets, Washington, New York and other major cities would benefit the most from such a plan. Without it, experts say, businesses are likely to seek safer locations. 
While the airlines' $15 billion aid package helps cover the costs associated with the attacks last month, the proposals for the insurers would cover the unknowable expenses from future terrorism. The government has also agreed to temporarily limit the airline insurers' future losses from terrorism. 
Administration officials and lawmakers, prodded by heavy lobbying from the insurance, real estate, manufacturing and investment industries, say they already agree on the need for quick action. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Senate Banking subcommittee that oversees insurance, said he exchanged drafts of legislation on Friday with senior Treasury Department officials who share his urgency. 
Mr. Dodd said that law enforcement officials' predictions of more attacks made it imperative to act.
"There is a real risk that reinsurance will not be issued, creating broader economic problems," he said. "It's like someone going to get a mortgage on a house, and the bank says, 'Do you have fire insurance?' and you say 'no' and they say 'forget it.' This is not a bailout. It's an economic issue."
Senator Charles A. Schumer, another member of the banking committee, agreed. "There has been a consensus achieved among the White House and everyone here that for an attack of terrorism, the government will have to be the insurer of last resort," Mr. Schumer, a New York Democrat, said. "If there was no insurance, it would really crimp economic activity. "
Insurers generally say they can survive the estimated $40 billion or more in losses from last month's attacks, but cannot bear the full risks of future attacks.
"Everybody is asking for this coverage, but nobody is getting it," said Salvatore Zaffino, chief executive of Guy Carpenter & Company in New York, one of the world's largest reinsurance brokers. "We know of no reinsurer that is offering to provide terrorist coverage." 
Officials say it is impossible to calculate whether the plan will wind up costing taxpayers nothing, like a similar plan in Britain, or hundreds of billions of dollars, which taxpayers paid to cover insured deposits at hundreds of failed savings and loan institutions a decade ago. 
"Nobody knows the upper parameters of the risk," an administration official said last Friday, which is the main reason the reinsurers now refuse to issue such insurance on their own.
Lenders usually require businesses to insure any property they pledge to secure loans. Insurance coverage also supports a $300 billion market for commercial mortgages packaged as securities, the second-largest source of cash for real estate projects after traditional bank loans. 
President Bush has already signed measures providing $20 billion in relief for New York, $15 billion for the airlines and an open-ended fund to compensate victims of the September attacks. 
The insurance measure is expected to move swiftly because virtually nobody has been lobbying against it. But any such measure could encounter resistance from both conservative Republicans who are skeptical of government involvement in the marketplace and liberal Democrats who see it as an unjustified bailout.
Aides to two important lawmakers -- Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democratic chairman of the Commerce Committee, and Representative Michael G. Oxley, Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee -- said last week that the lawmakers were urging colleagues to move slowly and assure themselves that a crisis truly existed. 
But industry groups have already lined up powerful support from influential lawmakers. Their high ranking on Congress's agenda was evident last week when they met with House leaders including the Speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, immediately after he conferred with Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to discuss budget issues. 
Lawmakers and administration officials are working on proposals under which insurers would cover initial terrorism claims, but their losses would be limited. The insurers would finance an industry pool that would then provide terrorism coverage of perhaps $10 billion, with the government paying for any greater losses, industry representatives say.
Last week, officials worked to resolve major issues including how insurance premiums would be set and by whom; whether the coverage would be mandatory; how large a calamity would trigger the use of government money; and whether the program would be permanent.
The most commonly discussed option is one adopted eight years ago by the British government in a similar crisis. But officials are exploring other plans including the creation of a new government-backed enterprise like the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. Another option would be modeled on the 1957 law that limits the liability of utilities for damages resulting from accidents at nuclear reactors. One other possibility, though unlikely, would be a tax break to enable insurers to provide coverage themselves. 
The British program began after Irish Republican Army terrorists attacked the London financial district in the spring of 1992, causing more than $500 million in damage and prompting European reinsurers to announce they would no longer cover terrorism. A feared crisis in the real estate and financial markets was averted by the creation of a company financed by the industry and backed by the government that covers losses from attacks in Wales, Scotland and England (but not Northern Ireland). But claims have never been large enough to require government help.
In the United States, experts say that government protection is now essential. "Who's going to run a business in New York or any other place if they don't think they can get protection?" Jerry Rosenbloom, a professor of insurance at the University of Pennsylvania, said. "I think businesses would try to move out of what they consider to be high-risk areas, and that will weaken the tax bases of a lot of major cities. It would include a loss of jobs right down to people being afraid to go into new businesses." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REINSURANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AVIATION INSURANCE (78%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



238 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money & Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Before Donating, Don't Be Afraid to Ask Questions

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
AMERICANS have opened their hearts and their wallets in the weeks after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, eager to help the victims and their families, as well as the thousands of volunteers at the disaster sites. Now specialists in charitable giving are advising people to take a few minutes to learn how to do the most good with their gifts.
 "It is so important to give money away intelligently," said Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a consumer watchdog group in Bethesda, Md. "People can exponentially increase the good of their donations." 
 Similarly, the Better Business Bureau advises people to "investigate before you donate." And both groups make it easy to do some basic research -- not only to avoid the scams of which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani warned within days of the attack in New York, but also to ensure that a charity has a sound record of financial accountability and that the money will be used as intended.
Donations have reached an estimated $675 million since the attacks, and more money is coming in.
Charity professionals say they are pleased with Americans' generous spirit, yet some of them have also expressed concern about the outlook for giving in general late in the year, traditionally a crucial time for charities. Already, several organizations unrelated to the disaster relief efforts have experienced a slowdown in donations, forcing some to scale back programs or postpone fund drives. The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, for instance, said it planned to close two pet-adoption centers and lay off eight people.
"There may be a 'compassion fatigue,' " said Bennett Weiner, chief operating officer of the BBB Wise Giving Alliance. "Some donors may be drained by this particular event and may not have much left."
Mr. Borochoff said he hoped Americans, who traditionally give 2 percent of income a year to charity, would view the donations related to Sept. 11 as an addition to their normal donations. "We still have homelessness," he said. "We still have people who cannot afford medical care, and these problems will only get worse with the economy turning down."
Ronna D. Brown, president of the Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York, agreed. "The entire nonprofit sector needs support," she said, adding, "People's outpouring for Sept. 11 has been wonderful."
Ms. Brown's group, which like other local chapters provides information on many charities, has also posted on its Web site, www.newyork.bbb.org, a table of charities working to help victims of the attacks. The table offers information about each charity, a description of its work, a link to its Web site and to an evaluation by the Better Business Bureau, if one has been made.
The American Institute of Philanthropy lists top-rated charities on its site, www.charitywatch.org/topgrps.html. The group grades charities for financial practices. The charities on the list put at least 75 percent of their budgeted expenses toward the charitable programs while generally spending 25 percent or less on fund-raising. Potential donors can order a copy of the institute's "Charity Rating Guide and Watchdog Report," by sending $3 to the institute, at 4905 Del Ray Avenue, Suite 300W, Bethesda, Md. 20814.
Another site, www.libertyunites.org, has links to charities participating in the disaster relief efforts. And the site of the BBB Wise Giving Alliance, www.give.org, contains a wealth of information, including financial evaluations of hundreds of charities; information may also be requested by PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS; 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WEB SITES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



239 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FINANCING; 
G-7 Leaders Pledge To Work In Concert to Thwart Terrorists

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The world's leading industrial nations agreed to share intelligence information related to the financing of terrorism and to collectively pressure all other countries to prevent terrorist from using the global banking system, finance ministers announced this evening.
 Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who described the agreement as a "huge breakthrough," said members of the Group of 7 have committed themselves to exchange intelligence on money flows and bank accounts related to suspected terrorists immediately after obtaining it. In the past, governments and banks in industrial nations have had widely divergent policies on blocking criminal assets. 
 "For 25 years the U.S. and other countries have been negotiating treaties" to deal with illicit financial flows, Mr. O'Neill said, adding, "Now we have the whole G-7 saying we will do this together-- identify specific individuals and accounts and take action to block them."
Since the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, Mr. O'Neill has led the American effort to seize the financial assets of people suspected of supporting Osama bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network.
President Bush has said that initial efforts to seize assets of 27 individuals and groups thought to be connected to Al Qaeda have netted $6 million in 50 bank accounts worldwide. But economic ministers are hoping that by tightening laws and recruiting a broader array of nations to cooperate in asset tracking, allies could not only seize more terrorist-related funds, but also make it difficult for people connected with terrorism to use banks for even routine transactions, like wire transfers or credit card use.
Though the G-7 countries pledged to cooperate on seizing terrorist funds before, there were shades of differences in their approaches. A bill that passed the Italian parliament last week would restrict the reach of financial crime investigations by limiting the kinds of information that Italian officials could share with foreign authorities.
Mr. O'Neill said tonight that all G-7 members -- Italy, the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany and Japan -- were now of one mind on the subject.
In their joint communique, the ministers vowed to implement two United Nations Security Council resolutions that call for the freezing of suspected terrorist funds.
They also agreed to convene a meeting of the Financial Action Task Force, a multilateral agency that coordinates financial police actions worldwide. The task force would draw up guidelines to help banks identify possible terrorists. The group would also seek to isolate places that facilitate terrorist financing and find ways of stopping them from doing so.
The measures could ease the burden on the United States, which has sought to single-handedly manage a worldwide suppression of the funds in the past two weeks. Mr. O'Neill said the Treasury Department had been corresponding with 107 countries during that time. He said he now expected his Canadian, European and Japanese counterparts to help persuade other nations to join the alliance.
Officials announced no similar concerted action to fight the worldwide economic downturn. Though all major industrial nations are suffering a synchronized slowdown -- the United States and Japan are both likely to undergo recessions this year -- the ministers said individual circumstances varied too widely to prescribe any unified steps to stimulate economic growth.
Still, each nation promised "decisive action" if economic weakness continued.
"We are strongly committed to bringing forward needed measures to increase economic growth and preserve the health of our financial markets," they said in their joint statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ASSET FORFEITURE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (92%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



240 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Make Sense of the Senseless 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 One way to respond to the recent terrorist attacks is for the United States to begin another Manhattan Project, with the objective of finding alternative fuels. 
 If American scientists were to develop other ways to fuel our automobiles and heat our homes -- whether hydrogen, solar, electric or fusion -- we would no longer be dependent on foreign sources of energy. 
Our dependence on oil from the Middle East now ties our hands both diplomatically and economically. 
Islamic militants, who assert that the United States exploits the Middle East oil resources, would no longer have another reason to despise the West, our trade deficit would vanish and pollution would decrease. For a few billion invested in the right area, we would all win.

REON E. SWAIM
Belford, N.J., Oct. 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); TERRORISM (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); RELIGION (53%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



241 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Traci Jones, Ara Lovitt

 BODY:
Traci Leigh Jones and Ara Lovitt are to be married today at the Williamsburg Inn in Williamsburg, Va. Judge J. Michael Luttig of the United States Court of Appeals in Alexandria, Va., will officiate. 
 The couple met at the United States Supreme Court in 1998, when the bride was a law clerk for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and the bridegroom was a law clerk for Justice Antonin Scalia. 
 The bride, who is 31 and will take her husband's name, is a litigation associate in the New York office of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, the Cleveland law firm. She graduated with high honors from the University of Texas at Austin, received a master's degree in economics from the University of Washington at Seattle and a law degree summa cum laude from Duke. 
She is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Jones of Ocala, Fla. Her father, who is retired, was a superintendent of claims at the Allied Insurance Company in Des Moines. Her mother, Sylvia Jones, also retired, was a claims adjuster in the Des Moines office of the Allstate Insurance Company.
The bridegroom, 29, is an associate working with media and communications clients in the mergers and acquisitions group of Morgan Stanley in New York. He graduated summa cum laude from Dartmouth and received a law degree from Stanford. He is the son of Tara Petrosian Lovitt of Los Angeles and Bert Lovitt of Pacific Palisades, Calif. His mother is a co-owner of Chez Nous, a restaurant in Toluca Lake, Calif. His father is a retired film editor and producer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (58%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (51%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: JONES DAY (84%); ALLSTATE INSURANCE CO (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (58%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%) JONES, TRACI LEIGH (TRACI LEIGH LOVITT); LOVITT, ARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



242 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Cherry-Picking REIT's in Flux

BYLINE:  By DAN COLARUSSO

 BODY:
ON Sept. 10, a Jersey City office tower being built across the Hudson River from the World Trade Center had lease commitments for roughly one-third of its one million square feet of space. Three weeks later, the building was "close to being full," said Mitchell Hersh, chief executive of the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, which owns it.
 While the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have harmed many parts of the economy, real estate investment trusts like Mack-Cali and Vornado Realty Trust, both office building giants, may now have more opportunity. But REIT's focused on hotels, like Host Marriott, are facing new instability. 
 REIT's, which own and operate income-producing real estate and are required to pay most of their earnings to shareholders, have outperformed the overall market for most of the last two years, in part because they have distributed steady dividends.
But because real estate performance typically softens after other sectors in a weak economy, investors have begun to re-evaluate the prospects of REIT's. They are debating whether companies that own large office buildings in metropolitan areas like New York City and Chicago will suffer from corporate flight and steadily declining occupancy rates, and if a paralyzed tourism industry will prevent hotel and resort REIT's from continuing to pay dividends. 
"All we have is uncertainty," said Martin Cohen, the president of Cohen & Steers Capital Management, which specializes in real estate investing. 
The Morgan Stanley REIT Index is up 6 percent this year. As of Thursday, it was down only 2 percent since Sept. 11. But with REIT's yielding 7 percent, investors may be wondering if there is enough income to offset the economic risk now facing all equity investing.
"Right now, I'd rate the sector a 4 or 5 on a scale of 10," said Hamid Moghadam, the chairman of AMB Property, an industrial property REIT. "On the valuation side, if there is a problem with sustainability of dividends, it could have an effect."
Shares of Mack-Cali, one of the largest landlords in New Jersey and the owner of the Jersey City complex, Harborside Financial Center, rallied to a 52-week high of $32 on Sept. 17 because it is expected to reap short-term benefits if financial companies move there from Lower Manhattan. Vornado shares also have rallied, because its New York properties have accommodated businesses moving from the disaster area. 
"Relative to the rest of the country, Manhattan was tight" before the attacks, said Charles Fitzgerald, a portfolio co-manager in the REIT group of J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management. "Now, it's much tighter."
Vornado could be coping with a very different set of problems today if it had not ended talks in March with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for a 99-year lease on the World Trade Center. The lease eventually went to another landlord.
Since the attack, five displaced companies have moved into some of the 14.5 million square feet of space that Vornado owns in Manhattan, said Steven Roth, its chairman and chief executive. Before the disaster, the New York real estate market "was O.K.," he said. "Now the displaced tenants have taken up most of the space available. There's no supply now."
BECAUSE New York City landlords and tenants typically sign longer leases than their counterparts elsewhere in the country -- 10 years or more, compared with 5 to 7 years -- many REIT's are insulated from short-term market uncertainties. Mr. Cohen said REIT's like S. L. Green Realty, Vornado and Boston Properties were likely to prosper because of extensive holdings in Manhattan. 
Mr. Hersh of Mack-Cali, however, said many companies were rethinking their real estate strategies. "Do companies want to locate in high-visibility areas? Should its work force be less concentrated?" he asked. "Given the work force availability and the housing availability, I think you'll see companies moving toward suburban markets."
There is little debate about prospects of REIT's concentrated in hotel and resort properties, which accounted for nearly 5 percent of the Morgan Stanley REIT Index at the end of the second quarter. Shares of Host Marriott have fallen 37 percent since Sept. 11 as tourism has dried up. 
After the attacks, FelCor Lodging Trust of Irving, Tex., said it was scrapping its planned merger with the MeriStar Hospitality Corporation of Washington because of "adverse changes in the financial markets." Shares of both companies have fallen substantially.
"Hospitality is not going to be O.K.," Mr. Cohen said, adding that REIT's with the shortest lease commitments should be avoided. That keeps rental properties and hotels out of the mix for him and some other REIT investors. 
Mr. Fitzgerald of J.P. Morgan said he was watching national office space vacancy rates -- which climbed to 10.8 percent in the second quarter from 9.5 percent in the first quarter -- because "occupancy problems can eat into dividends." He said he expected a similar increase in the third quarter. 
For REIT's, the other side of a soft economy is that declining interest rates allow them to borrow at lower rates. Vornado is in an especially good position. "We saw this cycle coming, and intentionally had a lot of floating-rate debt," Mr. Roth said.
Growth in funds from operations at REIT's -- their equivalent of earnings per share -- is expected be 8.5 percent from this year to next, up from 7.5 percent from 2000 to 2001. A slowing economy may cut one or two percentage points off those estimates, Mr. Fitzgerald said. 
Still, combining even reduced growth of 6 percent with the average REIT dividend of 7 percent makes the sector look good in comparison with the overall market, he said. "You're getting a low double-digit return over 12 months," he added.
Last Wednesday, Standard & Poor's said REIT's would be eligible for inclusion in its S.& P. 500, S.& P. MidCap 400 and S.& P. SmallCap 600 indexes.
WALL STREET is somewhat divided about the sector. Two Lehman Brothers analysts, David Harris and David Shulman, took what they called a "more defensive posture" on REIT's, downgrading S. L. Green, AMB Property and Boston Properties but upgrading Mack-Cali.
J.P. Morgan Fleming, which invests in publicly traded REIT's and in private real estate transactions, said it was hopeful but guarded. In a letter to clients last week, J.P. Morgan said "major property sectors, with the exception of hotels, are unlikely to suffer a one-for-one drop with the broader economy" and that "long-term leases will continue to provide an anchor to income streams."
Most REIT investors are similarly wary. "We've battened down the hatches; we have a slightly higher cash level, but we're looking to redeploy it," Mr. Cohen said, pointing to his funds' cash position, now at 7 percent, up from a typical 5 percent. "If we go into a prolonged tailspin. REIT's will probably defend better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mack-Cali Realty has leased nearly two-thirds of the space in Harborside Plaza 5, a tower under construction in Jersey City opposite Lower Manhattan, since Sept. 11. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times) Chart: "Re-evaluating REIT's"Shares of real estate investment trusts that own office properties have been stronger than those that operate hotels. Graph shows Mack-Cali Realty, office building owner, Host Marriott, hotel owner and operator figures from Sept. to Oct. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LODGING (75%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (74%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CITIES (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); RESORTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); TOURISM (52%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MACK-CALI REALTY CORP (84%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (71%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); COHEN & STEERS INC (54%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (50%)

TICKER: CLI (NYSE) (84%); VNO (NYSE) (71%); MS (NYSE) (54%); CNS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



243 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1079 words

PERSON: Bill Cella 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Ready to Ruffle Media Feathers

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
BILL CELLA has impressed many advertising colleagues with his self-effacing humor and wit. But they caution not to underestimate Mr. Cella, who just became one of the most powerful buyers of television ad time.
 Mr. Cella, 51, is chief executive of Magna Global, the newly formed media-buying division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, the world's largest collection of advertising agencies. 
 He is a "wonderful person," said Marv Goldsmith, a former boss of Mr. Cella's and now executive vice president of the broadcast group at ABC (which, of course, would benefit from good relations with Mr. Cella).
Keith Turner, a frequent business adversary of Mr. Cella's and the president of sales and marketing at NBC, called him "a talented, bright and extremely funny guy" who does not take himself too seriously.
Mr. Cella does not show obvious signs of strain from his new job, which will test an unproven strategy that uses Interpublic's multibillion-dollar purchasing power from all its clients to buy large blocks of national TV advertising at the lowest rates.
In an interview, Mr. Cella even joked that he got the job only because he and his present boss, John J. Dooner Jr., the chairman of Interpublic, have been friends since Little League.
But there is a tough, serious side to Mr. Cella. He is not afraid to ruffle feathers.
Mr. Cella has taken the job as the advertising world is reeling from the most severe slowdown in a decade -- first from the weakened economy and now also from the uncertainty since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. TV advertising is much more of a buyer's market, which could mean that Mr. Cella is starting his job at a time when his leverage will never be greater.
Interpublic has been an acquisitive giant for some time in advertising, the parent of agencies that include McCann-Erickson and FCB, among many others. The creation of Magna, announced in July, was meant to counter the increased power of the broadcast and cable networks, which have been no strangers themselves to mergers and takeovers in recent years.
The plan, Mr. Cella said, was to "balance the landscape" by consolidating media negotiations for all of Interpublic's agencies.
Taken together, Interpublic's agencies can throw around a lot of financial weight. Last year, they had billings of $40 billion worldwide, $8.6 billion of it spent on United States national TV advertising alone. That is about 25 percent of all national TV ad spending. Mr. Cella said it should be enough to give Magna the ability to "negotiate prices that our clients wouldn't be able to get on their own -- even big clients."
To do that, Magna must avoid conflicts among the many different clients of the Interpublic agencies. Magna is structured so that its negotiators will be informed of the total media needs of Interpublic's agencies, but will not know the specific names of clients for whom they are negotiating. That is the feature that distinguishes Magna from centralized media buyers of other big advertising companies, Mr. Cella said.
For Mr. Cella, the art of negotiating is a basic part of his professional life. He has worked for many years on both sides of the media street.
Mr. Cella, who lives in Manhattan with his wife, Elaine, and 4-year-old daughter, Danielle, began his career in broadcasting, selling radio time at a station in New Rochelle, N.Y., where he grew up. He later went to ABC, starting as an account executive for WXYZ-TV in Detroit. He then moved on to Chicago and later New York, where he rose to vice president for sports sales. In 1994, he left to join McCann-Erickson.
At McCann, Mr. Cella supervised the national broadcast assignment for the Coca-Cola account. He was promoted in 1997, taking on the responsibility for national television media covering all of McCann's clients. Before taking his post at Magna, he was executive vice president and director of broadcast and programming for the North American unit of Universal McCann, which, along with Initiative Media Worldwide is one of Interpublic's two media service agencies. There, he supervised the purchase of about $2 billion in national broadcast time annually.
"Bill is a terrific negotiator," said Mr. Goldsmith of ABC, who was president of sales and marketing for the network when Mr. Cella worked there and who often faced him in media negotiations after he went to the agency side.
"Even sitting on the opposite side of the table, I was still impressed," Mr. Goldsmith said. "He doesn't lose sight of what he is trying to accomplish."
That kind of tenacity will serve Mr. Cella well as he tries to accomplish something that "has never been tried before," in the words of Mr. Goldsmith: treating the purchase of network television time as "a commodity buy."
Will it work? In the aftermath of Sept. 11 and with talk of recession rampant, TV ad sales are weak. And while Mr. Cella can now exert an enormous amount of financial pressure in negotiating, such power may not seem as necessary for media buyers as it did when times were better.
It is also unclear whether Magna's anti-conflict measures will really work. As a result, many people in the industry appear to be taking a wait-and-see attitude about the company. 
Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox Broadcasting, is among them. He said he was not sure that Mr. Cella could negotiate prices without giving the seller "a lot of specifics," the kind of specifics Mr. Cella is not supposed to know about when he is buying network time in accordance with the Magna model.
Similarly, Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said he wondered whether there might still be client conflicts despite Mr. Cella's best efforts. And he questioned how Mr. Cella could be effective if the networks started talking privately to some of the bigger advertisers represented by Magna's parent, offering them better deals than Mr. Cella could provide, on condition that they break ranks with him.
For now, Mr. Cella is hiring employees and organizing Magna's move to office space in Midtown Manhattan. The company did "a little live testing" with some cable advertising time purchases over the summer, he said. Although he said he was "very satisfied with the discount levels of the deals we structured," he acknowledged that the big test for Magna would come in the spring, when pilot shows are screened and the first round of significant time-buying occurs. Until then, he said, Magna will "be working on process and procedure -- and we'll be ready."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As chief executive of Magna Global, Bill Cella, 51, will negotiate rates for perhaps 25 percent of national TV advertising in the United States. Magna is a new division of the Interpublic Group. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



244 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for RAINER HERTRICH and PHILIPPE CAMUS; 
Airbus, Unshaken, Is Not Cutting Back

BYLINE:  By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
THE airline industry crisis created by the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 quickly infected the American commercial aerospace industry. A week after the attacks, the Boeing Company said it would lay off up to 15 percent of its work force and trim 2002 production by 20 percent as financially struggling airlines scrapped plans to buy new planes.
 But the news from Airbus Industrie, the European manufacturer that competes with Boeing, was not nearly as bad. Airbus froze its delivery schedule for next year at 330 to 350 planes, announced no layoffs and said it was pressing ahead with its plan to produce a 550-seat superjumbo jet, known as the A380. It also stuck with projections of 15 percent earnings growth for this year. Nonetheless, some of the biggest Airbus customers are in the deepest trouble. 
 Rainer Hertrich and Philippe Camus, the co-chief executives of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the parent of Airbus, visited customers and government officials in the United States last week. In an interview last Wednesday, they discussed the airline industry's problems, as well as the military business opportunities that may be created by a United States response to the attacks. 
 RICK GLADSTONE

Q. -- Why does Boeing have to cut back so drastically on commercial airplane production while you do not?

HERTRICH -- We do not need to fire people because we were in the process of ramping up while Boeing was on a much higher level than we were, and therefore, of course, they have to reduce their work force as an adaptation, which was not necessary for Airbus, and this has nothing to do with subsidies or things like that, which was written in some press articles. E.A.D.S. is a listed company; we are as transparent as Boeing. So we feel ourselves quite well positioned in commercial aircraft, knowing that there will be an impact on us, but we are preparing for different scenarios and we believe ourselves excellently positioned to go through this crisis.

Q. -- The United States has rescued the domestic airline industry with emergency loans. Shouldn't we just let the market decide who survives?

CAMUS -- For me there was, and maybe there is still, what we call a systemic risk. A systemic risk was often used in describing the situation for the banks, in case of deep financial crisis. This was the same kind of risk involved, and I feel that the action taken by the U.S. government was really appropriate. Maybe it's not the usual situation, but public money is more involved here than in Europe. I think that was necessary.

HERTRICH -- The impact of the terroristic attacks on the 11th was an attack on the infrastructure, and if the government now would not support overcoming this attack on the infrastructure, we wouldn't have any infrastructure. So I think, following the line of Philippe, that's really government's task -- to safeguard the infrastructure -- but not without putting pressure on the airlines to be sound and to restructure themselves.

Q. -- Why are you sticking with the A380 superjumbo jet in such uncertain times?

CAMUS -- Because, first, it is a long-term program. The commercial life of the A380 will be 25 to 30 years, and we are thinking long term in the airline industry. We do see that after the consequences of the attacks of Sept. 11, which are creating turmoil in the market, passengers will return.
Second, it will be the first aircraft developed since Sept. 11, which means we are able to put on the aircraft all the safety features necessary. They will be, of course, the most elaborate safety features available. The third reason is that it will be the aircraft with the lowest operating cost per seat. And the fourth reason is that we are strongly supported by the airlines, our customers. So we have no reason to stop it, or slow down the program.

Q. -- What are the prospects for trans-Atlantic military cooperation now?

CAMUS -- We've seen that the events of the 11th, even if they are sad circumstances, are creating some opportunities to build. We can provide, together with the American industry, the appropriate capacity to deal with the new fight. Clearly the events of September have triggered a modification, a very deep change, maybe a sea change in the trans-Atlantic alliance. The reaction of the population in Europe can tell you that. I think it's a historical opportunity we should not miss. From an industry point of view, this is what we are favoring, this is what we are trying to implement.

Q. -- Many of your customers are suffering severe financial problems. Will you be more lenient with customers who need more time to pay?

HERTRICH -- Our strong balance sheet definitely will give us the possibility to extend financing where it's needed and where it's appropriate. We are ready to support our customers. It will be a case-by-case decision. I'm expecting there will be additional requests.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rainer Hertrich, left, and Philippe Camus, co-chiefs of Airbus's parent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (94%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); EAD (PAR) (84%); EAD (MCE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



245 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OPPOSITION; 
In New Glare, Questions Dog Afghan Rebels

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE with JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: JABUL-SERAJ, Afghanistan, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Sipping tea in an elegant garden here just 50 miles from Kabul, the foreign minister of the rebel Northern Alliance makes a soothing claim for the future government it hopes to be part of. In it, he said, "the people of Afghanistan will have the right of self-determination."
 But in past years the alliance itself has been accused of shelling civilians, carrying out summary executions, and engaging in opium and weapons trafficking, according to human rights groups. The groups say the alliance has also burned and looted the houses of suspected Taliban sympathizers. 
 The last time the alliance's leaders tried to run Afghanistan, Kabul dissolved into factional civil war. More than 25,000 people died in the fighting, which reduced a third of the city to rubble and carved the country into fiefdoms essentially run by warlords. 
The record raises serious questions for Afghanistan, and for the alliance's backers in Washington, as to how the Northern Alliance might rule. It also suggests that if rebel groups regain power, in the event of American attacks on the Taliban, they may barely be able to work together. 
The last time the allied groups held power, in the early 1990's, the situation became so chaotic that the Taliban found an opening to come to power, promising to restore order to the nation with their strict interpretation of Islam. Now the Taliban are accused of harboring Osama bin Laden.
Adding to the complexity, the Northern Alliance appears to be leaderless at this critical moment. Just two days before the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, two men believed to have ties to Mr. bin Laden attacked the alliance's charismatic leader, Ahmed Shah Massoud, in a suicide bombing. He died days later, depriving the alliance of a veteran of Afghanistan's long struggle against the Russians and someone whose reputation carried beyond his own faction of mujahedeen, or holy warriors. 
In the weeks since, it is still not clear who is the power broker in the Northern Alliance, though new leaders said that a new generation is emerging.
"So much depended on Ahmad Shah Massoud," one retired Central Intelligence Agency officer said.
"He was far from blameless, but he had an unquestionable commitment to rebuilding Afghanistan," the former officer said. "Al Qaeda, if it was Al Qaeda, knew what they were doing when they killed him before setting off the apocalypse that's going to finish the Taliban." 
The alliance's designated successor is General Muhammad Fahim, who is not the charming character that Mr. Massoud was. The group's titular leader, Burhannudin Rabbani, is seen largely as a figurehead.
In any case the alliance stands to play a powerful role in any future government, a position strengthened by its warming relationship with Washington. Another reason for its influence is sheer power: it can threaten to keep doing what it has been doing for two decades -- using its soldiers, now 15,000, to keep up the fight.
The foreign minister of the rebels, Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, who evidently is determined to cleanse the alliance's image, says that the group has matured greatly over the last five years, and that accusations against it are false or outdated. 
Disputes about the alliance go back almost a decade. In 1992 Mr. Rabbani saw his hour come and go after the mujahedeen triumphantly took Kabul when Soviet forces fled. Mr. Rabbani twice brokered deals that elected him president of Afghanistan. But his period in office split the mujahedeen, and the result was a full-scale civil war.
From 1992 to 1996 fighting raged among the factions, largely divided along political or ethnic lines. The real power behind Mr. Rabbani emerged: Mr. Massoud, the military commander. Both are ethnic Tajiks. 
By 1996, the Taliban, supported by Pakistan, had control of large parts of Afghanistan, forcing Mr. Rabbani and Mr. Massoud to form the Northern Alliance with other factions in the opposition. The alliance consisted of Mr. Massoud's faction, dominated by ethnic Tajiks, and other factions dominated by ethnic Uzbeks, ethnic Hazaras and Shiite Muslims. 
The Taliban are dominated by southern-based ethnic Pashtuns, the country's largest ethnic group. 
The newly allied groups, which had intermittently fought each other over the previous four years, had only one thing in common -- their opposition to the Taliban. Their efforts failed and the Taliban took Kabul and other big cities. 
It was during this period that Mr. Massoud's forces were accused of indiscriminately firing rockets into the capital, killing civilians.
Since then the fractious alliance has suffered military setback after military setback. The Taliban, backed by Pakistani weapons and volunteers, won control of 90 percent of the country.
The death of Mr. Massoud left the alliance at risk. General Fahim and General Abdul Rashid Dostum, two of the current leaders, both have mixed records as men whose loyalties were often in question and who, in General Dostum's case, switched sides at least twice in the early 1990's.
American officials worked closely with the mujahedeen factions now attached to the alliance in the late 1980's and early 1990's. Many of those officials now sigh when asked whether they believe that the fractiousness of those earlier years will be put aside in the quest for a new government.
Aside from the infighting and rights areas, there have also been questions about how the alliance has financed its operations. Alliance officials confirmed this week what has long been known -- that Iran and Russia have supplied it with weapons and financing.
Mr. Massoud was also known to generate funds by selling emeralds mined from the alliance-controlled Panjshir Valley. Alliance officials defend that as legitimate economic activity.
There have also been allegations that the alliance condones opium production and takes a cut of profits to finance operations. Weapons smuggling has also been rumored.
Dr. Abdullah vehemently denied these charges. He said alliance officials had worked to contain opium production by local farmers, who he said profit alone from the trade. 
The most serious allegations of human rights abuses stem from the mid 1990's, when the rule of law was virtually nonexistent in areas under each faction's control, according to rights groups. A report released by Human Rights Watch this spring found that all of the factions "engaged in rape, summary executions, arbitrary arrests, torture and 'disappearances.' "
In the worst single atrocity of the civil war, Uzbek soldiers under alliance command and Hazara civilians executed 3,000 Taliban soldiers in the city of Mazar-i-Sharif in 1997. The soldiers had been captured after an alliance commander reneged on a promise to side with the Taliban.
In 1998, several volleys of rockets believed to be fired by Mr. Massoud's forces landed in a crowded night market in Kabul. At least 76 civilians were killed.
As recently as spring 2000, refugees reported that alliance forces carried out summary executions and burned and looted houses. Ethnic Pashtuns were targeted in the attacks.
In the weeks since Mr. Massoud's assassination, General Fahim has largely kept out of the public eye. In an interview, the 44-year-old general said little and stuck to the alliance's standard line that Pakistan is to blame for all of Afghanistan's problems. The general, Mr. Massoud's longtime top aide, is colorless compared with his predecessor. But other alliance commanders insist his many years at Mr. Massoud's side give him credibility.
Dr. Abdullah speaks energetically of the future, and indeed this week a large contingent of alliance soldiers paraded in brand-new uniforms, said to have come fresh from Iran, along with functioning, if weathered, tanks and equipment. On every tank was a portrait of Mr. Massoud. 
Dr. Abdullah tries to convey the sense that after two decades, Afghanistan's moment has at last arrived. "Now, there is this promise," he said, "there is this hope." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); RELIGION (65%); OPIUM (58%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



246 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
A Glittering Addition at the Mohegan Sun Casino

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT'S long-suffering economy is experiencing a bracing reversal of fortune generated by three entities: the six-year-old Mohegan Sun Casino in Montville, where the first phase of a $1 billion addition opened last month and where a 1,200-room hotel is to open in the spring; the hugely successful Foxwoods Casino and Resort in Ledyard; and Pfizer Inc.'s 750,000-square-foot global research and development headquarters in New London, which opened in June.
 "We're in an interesting position," said Vivian Stanley, executive director of Connecticut's Mystic & More!, a publicly financed tourism district. "A lot of layoffs are going on elsewhere, but we're in a hiring mode, so we're seeing local people staying instead of moving out, and we're seeing a rise in real estate values." 
 Fueled by a pool of 11,600 Foxwoods employees, 9,000 Mohegan Sun employees and 1,500 people already hired by Pfizer for an eventual work force of 2,000, waterfront homes are being built for executives priced at $750,000 to $1 million, according to area builders. Existing homes that sold for $10,000 in 1990 are on the market for $250,000, said Tony Alves, New London's building inspector. Closer to the gambling sites, casino employees -- many of whom have been renters -- are said to be buying homes at the low end of the market. 
In addition, Greg Young, owner of Prudential Signature Properties in Old Saybrook, said: "We're selling condos to people from New York who want a place to stay when they come to the casinos. They rent them out when they can."
On Sept. 25, Mohegan Sun opened a massive addition to its original 630,000-square-foot complex completed in 1996, bringing the entire installation to a total of 5.5 million square feet, larger than Foxwoods' current 4.7 million square feet. 
The $270 million cost of the original portion pales beside the $986.1 million spent on the addition, plus $30 million that the Mohegans paid to widen Route 2A and create a mile-long Mohegan Sun Boulevard, providing patrons a direct route from Interstate 395 to the 12,500-car free parking garage.
Both Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with similar gambling, dining and entertainment options. Because the two tribes have been designated by the federal government as independent Indian nations, they pay no municipal, state or federal taxes on activities that take place on reservation property. Instead, after paying gamblers' winnings, they contribute 25 percent of their monthly revenues from slot machines to Connecticut and give voluntarily to their hometowns as well. Foxwoods' contribution to the state for the year that ended in June was $190.7 million; Mohegan Sun paid $141.7 million.
In April of next year the 1,200-room Mohegan Sun Hotel will open on the tribe's 240-acre tract with rates starting at $175. Foxwoods has 1,416 rooms in three hotels with rates varying from $110 to $475. The Mohegans' hotel will have a 100,000-square-foot convention center, double the space at Foxwoods, with 30 conference and smaller meeting rooms accommodating up to 5,300 people, a 40,000-square-foot divisible ballroom and a business center. At 480 feet it will be the second tallest building in Connecticut, after the 535-foot City Place office building in Hartford. 
The hotel's glittering 34-story glass towers are nearing completion, offering a stunning first glimpse of the casino to approaching visitors. "Rock and crystal forms that are recurring themes in the Mohegan culture," said Lloyd Sigal, project manager for the architects, Kohn Pedersen Fox, "are expressed in the high-tech reflective glass curtain wall of the hotel that angles at the edges and top."
David Rockwell, head of the Rockwell Group, architectural designers for the interiors of the original casino and the addition, said, "The Mohegans really pushed us to dream of an environment that would amaze people." The result is not for admirers of minimalism. Mohegan tribal art and legend have been filtered through the lens of a Las Vegas gambling palace in a wild array of color and materials.
One outstanding feature is an enormous jagged alabaster and onyx construction inside the casino containing an elevated three-level bar, lounge and dance floor, backlit to look like glowing stone. Patrons can look out at the sea of people, slots and gaming tables or up at a planetarium dome suspended 90 feet above the floor, depicting in fiber-optic images the ever-changing night skies. 
"We used more than 30 million glass beads and a lot of crystalline glass throughout the casino to celebrate that aspect of Mohegan culture," Mr. Rockwell said.
The original portion, called Casino of the Earth, hews to the rustic wood, tent canvas, four-seasons coloring and natural design themes of Indian lore. The new section, called Casino of the Sky, contains a similar layout but interpreted in abstract patterns, terrazzo floors with mother-of-pearl inlays, rich multicolored glass domes defining various spaces and contemporary custom carpeting, furniture and lighting. 
Mark Brown, chairman of the Mohegan Tribal Council, which owns and operates the complex, said, "The new addition represents the future of the tribe; the existing casino tells the history of the tribe." 
OTHER features include an 80-foot-high, 120-foot-wide indoor waterfall; a retail corridor of 27 boutiques, including Lux, Bond & Green jewelers, Swarovski crystal, Brookstone, and Godiva Chocolatier; and some 30 dining establishments ranging from the upscale Rain to Michael Jordan's Steak Housea seafood shack, Bubba's BBQ , Ben & Jerry's, and a fast-food court. 
Blackjack, roulette, craps, baccarat, a total of 6,150 slot machines, several kinds of poker and a 3,000-square-foot high-limit lounge are among a couple of dozen ways to gamble. A full-service area for betting on live events taking place elsewhere has 220 self-wagering carrels and 300 television screens for viewing live horse racing at Belmont, Aqueduct and Saratoga as well as greyhound racing and jai alai.
On the roster of entertainers, Tony Bennett is to be featured in the 300-seat cabaret Nov. 9 through 11. In the 10,000-seat arena, which is also a venue for basketball, boxing, other sports and exhibitions, Gloria Estefan and Tim McGraw are to perform on Nov. 9.
Children of patrons have their own entertainment complex called Kids' Quest, for ages 6 weeks through 12 years. A nonviolent video arcade and an activities center cost $6 an hour per child.
Mohegan Sun was developed by Trading Cove Associates, a partnership of Sol Kerzner, chairman of Sun International of South Africa, developer of casinos and resorts worldwide, and Len Wolman, president of the Waterford Hotel Group in Waterford, Conn., builder and manager of 16 hotels in Connecticut and 10 more in nine states from Vermont to Oklahoma. In 1998 Trading Cove relinquished its management contract with the tribal council in return for 5 percent of gross revenues for 15 years beginning last Jan. 1.
"The hotel business in Connecticut," said Simon Flynn, director of the Connecticut Lodging Association, "is off by 30 percent, but southeastern Connecticut is a go-go destination." Studies by Mystic & More! report that hotels in the district have proliferated to 64 today from 22 in 1983.
In addition, a no-frills Microtel Inn, developed by the Konover Hotel Corporation of West Hartford, will open this month at Routes 32 and 2A, with 120 rooms around $100 a night. David Johnson, head of Konover, said, "It is designed to provide accommodation for people who have business or participate in gaming at the casinos."
A Best Western Cristata with 105 rooms ranging from $109 to $200 opened 33 months ago on Route 32. It offers a continental breakfast, indoor pool and round-the-clock limousine service to Mohegan Sun.
In lieu of taxes the casino pays Montville $500,000 a year. "They have been wonderful," the town's mayor, Howard Beetham, said. "They contribute to many nonprofits, and they put up $3 million, or 95 percent of the cost of an area water transmission system. When we were short of money for our youth programs, they sent a check for $2,600, and they bought a new $1,000 oil burner for a woman who lost her husband."
Montville's population of 17,000, which is spread over 45 square miles, formerly depended on two paper mills, two power plants and 700 municipal jobs, according to the mayor. "Now we have more jobs than people to fill them," he said. He estimates that "there are 25 million people within a four-hour radius, and a lot of them who thought about flying vacations will come here instead by car." In the wake of the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks, business in the casino declined for about a week, but it has since picked up again, Mohegan Sun officials said.
"I grew up here," Mayor Beetham said, "with a Mohegan family living next door to our farm -- side by side for over 80 years. My uncle left some money in trust for their church. He was a farmer -- not rich. He died in 1993. If he were to wake up today, he might ask for a refund."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1,200-room Mohegan Sun Hotel towers over the original casino. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) Map of Ledyard, Connecticut

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CASINOS (90%); GAMING (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (90%); PFIZER INC (83%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



247 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Home Design Magazine; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Wallace In Wonderland 

BYLINE:  By Amy M. Spindler; Amy M. Spindler is the style editor of The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Tom Ford counts Brad and Jennifer as friends, but he can't help making a dry reproach on hearing that Wallace Neff is the subject of this piece. "Friends' is a great television show, so Neff must be a great architect," he drawls. Let's just say Neff never got the kind of press, even when he was remodeling Hollywood's most famous mansion, Pickfair, that he's getting these days. 
 Brad Pitt, a bit of an architectural expert, and Jennifer Aniston, of the aforementioned "Friends," have followed in the footsteps of a few tony couples before them, like Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, Cary Grant and Barbara Hutton, Charlie Chaplin and Paulette Goddard and John Gilbert and Greta Garbo. The Pitts are shacking up in a house designed by Neff, whose work in the early days of Hollywood earned him the moniker "the architect of California's golden age." 
 When world economic conferences are being disrupted by protests against globalization, Neff is certainly an architect for these times. Richard Neutra, whose style of Modernism has become a brand around the world, was his contemporary and in many ways his bete noire. At the end of his life, Neff succumbed to Modernism over regionalism. In fact, homes like the one he designed for Groucho Marx are great examples of Modernism; Bryan Lourd, one of the partners at the Creative Artists Agency, lives in an astonishing Modernist Neff that was restored, with interior designs by Brad Dunning, who also works with Ford (who owns a Neutra, not a Neff). 
But it was Neff's earliest work that was redolent of California's history: Spanish colonial, mission bungalow, film-studio Mediterranean. And it's his earlier work that is what everyone imagines when they think of Hollywood estates.
"In many ways he could be considered the Stanford White of Beverly Hills, catering to deep-pocketed film stars and executives who could well afford and appreciate his romantic architectural stage sets, in which their well-dressed and well-heeled lives are played out," Dunning says of Neff.
Everyone in Los Angeles who cares about such things (which is to say, everyone) thought Pitt, who had already gone through the prerequisite mission phase with a Craftsman compound in Los Feliz, Calif., was going to go Neutra modern. 
Instead, he and Aniston spent $13.5 million on the Norman-style house that was designed by Neff for Fredric March and Florence Eldridge in 1933. It was March's lead role in "Death Takes a Holiday" that Pitt recreated in "Meet Joe Black." Eldridge was an actress who starred with March and Katharine Hepburn in the 1936 John Ford film "Mary of Scotland."
Madonna almost qualifies as a Neff collector. She and Guy Ritchie recently bought one from Diane Keaton for $6.5 million; the Neff she owned in Los Feliz was sold to Jenna Elfman, of "Dharma & Greg." Rupert Murdoch lives in a croissant-shaped Neff -- once ruled by MCA's founder, Jules Stein -- that takes up half a mountaintop. Star brokers like Barry Sloane, who heads Sotheby's division of historic and architecturally significant properties in Beverly Hills, says clients ask for Neff houses by name.
"Of all the historical revival architects who worked in that medium, he had this wonderful theatrical flair, and that's what people love," Sloane says. "The frivolity, the touches he did. He was a master of scale and proportion. Madonna's old house has two of the most well-proportioned public rooms as I've seen anywhere. If you were made to wait and the pope walked in, you would not be surprised. There's a classical proportion; you could be in Rome. He nailed it. It's a transcendent performance."
Taking a Hollywood tour of Neff homes, as I recently did with Dunning, is the closest thing America has to visiting temples in Greece. When Dunning said at the end of the day that he felt he'd been making a Mount Olympus pilgrimage to the temples of our gods, he wasn't exaggerating.
There are the stone posts -- all that is left of the ranch Neff built for King Vidor, who, in 1929, was one of the first directors to be nominated for an Academy Award. (Vidor's manor, also by Neff, is now owned by the film producer Jon Peters.) There's the sweet house Neff designed for Claudette Colbert, perfectly preserved at 615 Faring Road. Dunning points out the detailing above the door. "Look how overexaggerated the pediment is," he says. "It looks like it's from a Warner Brothers cartoon." He gestures to the turned bricks, which make a jagged ruffle around the house's edges. "He was really so sophisticated." The auto court, another repeated Neff touch, arches to the door. "It's so theatrical to have that," he sighs.
Then there is the gatehouse, and the white post fences, the remains of the entire crest above Angelo Drive that was once the grounds of the estate of Frances Marion and Fred Thomson. Marion, one of the first female screenwriters, had been a journalist and employee of William Randolph Hearst, and won two Oscars, writing screenplays for stars like Pickford and Marion Davies. Her husband was a popular cowboy star of the day.
"You really get a sense of how they lived then, even looking at the ruins," Dunning says, as I stand on the roof of his S.U.V., putting dents in, trying to see over the chain-link construction fence surrounding the grounds.
Later, after pondering the day, Dunning adds: "In almost Olympian imagery, Neff's sites of choice were out-of-reach hilltop retreats where anointed bronzed gods and goddesses of the silver screen ruled by fan decree from these dizzying aeries. The legacy has never waned."
Neff, he continues, deftly worked in "Spanish, Italianate, Normandy and, later in his career, Modern, styles -- as easily as the actors he beroofed changed costumes and period pieces."
In her memoir, "Off With Their Heads! A Serio-Comic Tale of Hollywood," Marion describes what it was like to build a showplace in Hollywood with a master like Neff at your side. "High on hilltops, overlooking the Pacific that is rarely pacific, rose the Temples of Mammon, those houses of bastardized architecture built by the motion picture rich." She goes on to describe the lush lives and extravagant spending of the early 1920's, ending with, "And now I must confess, with embarrassment, that Fred Thomson and I built the largest house on the highest hill in Beverly Hills."
They bought 20 acres for $4,500 an acre (after paying $1,500 an acre for the first four). She wanted a little adobe hut. Thomson wanted stables for his horses. Their original architect recommended Neff, she writes, "whose Spanish houses were attracting a great deal of attention in Pasadena." Neff's resulting plans had a stable, which "rose on paper like the Royal Riding Academy in Madrid," a "men's house" for the farmhands ("When it finally loomed up on the treeless scarred hillside it looked like a Vanderbilt summer place to me") and then a "week later Sherwood Forest began moving up the hill."
After her husband had added a waterfall to the grounds to keep the horses cool, Marion put her foot down: "You can run the stable, but I'm going to have that little adobe farmhouse even if it looks like a wart on top of the hill!" She then reconsidered: "The more I thought about my adobe resembling a wart, the more the idea needled me, like a mosquito in your room at night. So I sent for Mr. Wallace Neff. In a short while our hill resembled a gigantic wedding cake. Pine trees studded every tier, while on top rose a huge house with a drawing room two stories and a half high, rare tapestries on the walls, an Aeolian pipe organ, and windows overlooking five acres of lawn. Beautifully laid out on the terrace were a tiled barbecue, an aviary, and a hundred-foot swimming pool. Fred and his horses and I had gone Hollywood!"
Rudolph Valentino was inspired by their efforts to build his own house, Falcon's Lair, just below them; he thought the Sheik should have horses, and added stables, too.
"On our morning rides, reining in our horses to watch the sun climb over the mountains and send long shafts of light into the misty valley below," Marion recalls, "we saw Rudy as a simple peasant boy who, through a trick of Fate, had become the idol of millions."
As the stars of today, who through a trick of fate have become the idols of millions, buy the Neff houses once lived in by icons whose glamorous lives remain a template, new Hollywood is recapturing a bit of the sheen of Hollywood past. From this historical distance, it may be the sophisticated images of the first movie players that seem more glamorous, but it is probably the innocence of the time that appeals the most. A time when a star like Valentino -- the Sexiest Man Alive of his day -- could ride horses through the Hollywood Hills and dream of breeding them as if on an Italian farm back home. "The colony" then needed sets for the lives of the stars, and Neff provided them. But they also needed a community. Everyone was from somewhere else. Everyone was inventing an exciting future from a dull past. Neff's work said California; it said Hollywood; but it also said home.
As Crosby Doe, the architectual expert at Mossler Deasy & Doe real estate, says of the Pitt purchase: "Even that house is not pretentious. It might be grand, but it's not pretentious. Neff houses have a humanity about them."
Hennessey & Ingalls, based in Santa Monica, has published the two definitive guides to Neff's work, "Wallace Neff: Architect of California's Golden Age" and the paperback "Wallace Neff 1895-1982: The Romance of Regional Architecture." The latter has addresses for his remaining homes, some of which are hard to find as shrubs grow and street names change -- but some of which preen like ingenues wanting so badly to be adored beside the mega-mansions encroaching on the once parklike surroundings. They are like Mary Pickford sharing the Beverly Hills stage with Fatty Arbuckle.
Perhaps the grandness of Neff's buildings, tempered by his Looney Tunes touches, comes from the fact that Neff himself always straddled two worlds. He was from old money -- relative to many of his Hollywood clients, that is. His grandfather was Andrew McNally, who founded the publishing house Rand McNally. Neff toured Europe before ending up as Hollywood's favorite architect; Marion and Thomson's house was his first big Hollywood commission. He included on it two heraldic coats of arms: a roll of film over a horse's head, and a horseshoe for good luck. Clearly, he was having some fun, as were his clients.
William Alexander McClung writes in "Landscapes of Desire: Anglo Mythologies of Los Angeles" that the embrace of such flourishes reflects "the lightening of the high Modernist burden and the lifting of the obligation to disapprove of rich people's tastes in building." He adds, "* but something pertinent to L.A. is at work also: the process by which something threatening to the integrity of the culture has been accepted and revalued as essential to that culture."
That process continues. As the 50's and 60's houses immortalized in Modernist coffee-table books are being fervently embraced, and as the Neutra homes vie for attention with the more typical Neffs, Sloane issues a reminder that not everyone gets the Modernist houses yet, 40 years after they were built.
"They expect them to be empty and in black and white, just like in the 1950's case-study photos they've seen," he says. "If I had glasses to put over people's eyes to make things monochromatic, I'd sell a lot more houses. All these people want to live in a Julius Shulman photograph."
Or in the case of Neff, a silent movie. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: At home with the stars, the remake: Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston, below, bought the Norman-style house, bottom, that Wallace Neff designed for Fredric March and Florence Eldridge in 1933. Neff's rambling 1920's Spanish colonial house, left, for the screenwriter Frances Marion and the actor Fred Thomson, gobbled up most of a hillside. (CLOCKWISE FROM TOP left: ROLLAND LEE, from "Wallace Neff: architect of california's Golden Age" (HennessEy & Ingalls), $; Wallace Neff Jr.; LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JONATHAN ALCORN/ZUMA PRESS.); For the screen legends Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, above, Neff transformed a nondescript house into Pickfair, top, an elegant Regency mansion with glamorous interiors and lush gardens. (PHOTOGRAPHS $; BETTMANN/CORBIS); Wallace Neff, shown here as a young man, became the architect of California's golden age, designing dream houses for Hollywood's reigning royalty. (FROM "WALLACE NEFF: ARCHITECT OF CALIFORNIA'S GOLDEN AGE" (HENNESSEY & INGALLS), $; WALLACE NEFF JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (54%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: JENNIFER ANISTON (90%); BRAD PITT (90%); MADONNA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%); SCOTLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



248 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: ESSAY; 
The Bubble's Bill Has Come Due

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
HOLD tight. Don't panic.
 That has been the advice from the investment world after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. While this is probably sound counsel for most conservative, long-term investors, it may not be what refugees from the bull market need to hear. 
 Actually, the message to stay the course started in March of last year, when the market topped out and then began its fall. Gone were the pep-rally ads, like the memorable Ameritrade commercials featuring the manic, redheaded office boy Stuart, a champion of day trading, who exhorted his fusty boss: "Let's light this candle." Instead, companies like U.S. Trust and Merrill Lynch offered cuddling reassurance to nervous clients that they could leave their candles in the hands of professionals. 
Now we have the crisis ads. Peter Lynch, a vice chairman at Fidelity Investments and the former manager of its giant Magellan fund, said in a recent newspaper advertisement that he did not know what would happen to the markets in the short term, and never really had. But he had faith in the next 5 and 10 years.
Charles Schwab, the founder of the brokerage firm that bears his name, counseled investors, while they waited on hold during calls to the firm, to "invest for the long term" and to "keep your cool during the rough times."
And according to a message on the Web site of Putnam Investments, "The important thing is to remain calm and not to allow the impact of this near-term occurrence to cloud a long-term perspective."
For most people, this is sound advice. But for some, there is little to be gained by maintaining a strategy that never was. In the flush years of the market, Americans acquired all manner of bad habits. Many had a strategy that amounted to "make a killing."
Now, they are paying the price. Some people plowed all their savings -- through 401(k) accounts, employee savings plans and stock options -- into one stock, that of their company. Then the stock plummeted in value and they were laid off. They were left with no jobs and greatly diminished savings.
Investors also used margin -- borrowed money -- to gamble with more dollars than they actually had, only to be pummeled when the market fell. Some investors would buy only Internet stocks and would never consider a stock like Home Depot, an old-economy company, or even a bond. And average people started acting like hedge fund managers, using strategies like short-selling, futures and options.
"I have a lot of what were instant millionaires who are back to being normal people," said Lewis J. Altfest, a financial planner in Manhattan, referring to some of his newer clients.
Now investors are rediscovering conservative investments like bonds. But if there is a mass movement to bonds, it may not shed any light on whether investors are practicing diversification. Rather, the bird's-eye view suggests that many investors are continuing to run from whatever fell yesterday and to whatever went up yesterday, the opposite of "buy low, sell high."
Figuring the right balance of risk and reward will become even more important. Increasingly, the retirement savings system is moving from one that is overseen by professional investors to one managed by average Americans. 
The State of Florida, for example, will soon offer its employees the closest thing to a 401(k) plan that any state government has come up with, and it could be a prelude to similar plans from other states. And for years, corporations have been trimming traditional pension plans, leaving workers to juggle 401(k) assets. That is not necessarily bad, but it will require people to make complicated choices.
IN short, prudent planning is becoming everybody's business. 
"This is a terrible time to change, but if you've done it all wrong, there's no point in doing it all wrong forever," said John C. Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group and creator of the first index mutual fund.
Finding a strategy is not easy. There are financial planners, investing books, magazines, newsletters and software programs that handicap your chances of having enough money to retire when you want. There are rules of thumb, like subtracting your age from 100 and using the answer as the percentage you should invest in stocks. (That would be 70 percent for a 30-year-old, for example.)
No such rules really work, says Roy Diliberto, a Philadelphia financial planner, except for the idea of diversification. Mr. Bogle, 72, says software programs, like those offered by Financial Engines of Palo Alto, Calif., or Morningstar of Chicago, imply that finances can be reduced to an easy science. An investor's best bet, he said, is to use a 50-50 split between stocks and bonds as an axis over a lifetime, and, if they need help, to choose a fee-based financial planner who does not have incentives to sell certain products.
Mr. Bogle invested about 70 percent to 75 percent of his assets in stocks and the remainder in bonds from 1951 through the mid-1990's. Then he had a heart attack and thought it was time to shift into a retirement portfolio, with about 35 percent in stocks and the rest in bonds. For investors ready to dig out of a miscast strategy, he advises starting with half of their invested assets, and moving incrementally.
"I would start today," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); REFUGEES (57%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FMR CORP (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



249 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
After the Attacks, Which Side Is the Left On?

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KAZIN; Michael Kazin, who teaches history at Georgetown University, is co-author of "America Divided: The Civil War of the 1960's."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
BEFORE Sept. 11, American progressives had reason to hope they might be emerging from the political wilderness. After years of bitter squabbles over identity politics and the merits of the Clinton administration, the left appeared to have reclaimed its anti-corporate heritage and was growing.
 For the first time since the 1930's, student activists and labor officials championed the same causes. At dozens of colleges, groups sought to curb sweatshop manufacturing in the developing world and to demand a living wage for employees at home. Organizers were predicting 100,000 protesters, including many union members, would be in Washington in late September during the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. 
 Progressives inside and outside the Democratic Party exulted that President Bush's poll ratings were not much higher than the percentage of the vote he had won a year before and that his administration seemed without a purpose beyond cutting taxes. Chances looked good that a liberal coalition could help take back the House of Representatives in 2002 and maybe the White House in 2004.
Those hopes, and the prospect of a unified left, disappeared along with so much else in the wake of the Sept. 11 attack. While labor leaders and liberal lawmakers endorse the administration's anti-terrorist campaign, radical foes of global capital on college campuses and the streets talk of peace and try to grasp why many in the Islamic world seem to hate the United States.
In pleading their case, each segment of the left evokes the metaphors of an earlier war -- using two very different examples. For the embattled new peace movement, the war is Vietnam; for anti-terrorist liberals, it is World War II.
Indeed, the arguments of many peace activists echo those New Leftists made 30 years ago. "The fear and desperation that grows sic from poverty and oppression is crucial to any understanding of violence throughout the world," says a group called the Anti-Capitalist Convergence. Even symbols of the earlier movement are making a comeback -- an ad in The Nation features the peace symbol, now colored red, white and blue. 
Accused of being anti-American, peace demonstrators respond that they are upholding the most humane of secular and spiritual ideals -- protection of the innocent in a world where the gulf between the rich and poor is ever widening. As with Vietnam, radicals accuse American policymakers of caring about acts of mass slaughter only when their own citizens are its victims.
Meanwhile, most liberals and a few chastened radicals view the Sept. 11 attacks through the prism of World War II. For them, Osama bin Laden and the Taliban represent what the author Christopher Hitchens labels, "fascism with an Islamic face." Echoing the words of Mr. Bush, the anti-terrorist left maintains there is a moral imperative to defend a society that remains, whatever its flaws, a pillar of ethnic and religious pluralism and representative democracy. 
Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, entered politics as an opponent of the Vietnam War and the nuclear arms race. But the religious zealots who destroyed the World Trade Center and blasted the Pentagon remind the Jewish liberal of the Nazis; she vows "to stop that from happening again." Labor officials now struggling to help the families of the hundreds of union workers killed on Sept. 11 -- cooks and waiters, janitors and security guards, as well as firemen and police -- are hardly inclined to disagree.
This is no time to talk of peace, such progressives insist, before action is taken to punish those who planned the attacks and prevent them from committing further carnage. Repeating a charge hurled against isolationists 60 years earlier, liberals accuse opponents to their left of being naive about the threat posed to a system in which a culture of opposition can flourish.
This debate within the left also parallels divisions evident in earlier wars. In the 20th century, visionary altruists were both the leaders of America during each major conflict and spearheaded the opposition.
In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson insisted American troops were needed to make the world "safe for democracy," while pacifists and Socialists charged the doughboys were only protecting the profits of munitions makers and British imperialists. In 1940, leftists and isolationists made a similar indictment against Franklin D. Roosevelt when he urged passage of Lend-Lease and the revival of the draft. (It took the attack on Pearl Harbor to squelch or convert his opponents.) In 1965, most progressive Democrats backed Lyndon B. Johnson's decision to defend the "freedom" of South Vietnam, while young radicals argued that the liberal president was using American power to crush a war of independence against foreign rule.
EACH of these ruptures affected the future of American politics in significant ways. The divisions over World War I and Vietnam -- unpopular wars -- helped conservative Republicans dominate Congress and the White House in the 1920's and most of the 1970's and 80's. But most progressives backed World War II as a battle against the enemies of freedom, and their cherished causes of industrial unionism and racial tolerance gained as the fighting raged
Now, though President Bush is a Republican, he is using words saturated with historic left ideals to win the confidence of many Americans. In his address to Congress, the president condemned the Taliban for barring women from school and prohibiting any religious doctrine but their own. He has also condemned acts of prejudice against Arab-Americans and wants to help unemployed workers pay for health insurance. Mr. Bush's oratory of war sounds a good deal like the reformist internationalism that guided the foreign policy of Democratic presidents from Wilson to Bill Clinton.
Anti-terrorist liberals hope the war will be limited and that, as after Pearl Harbor, the communal spirit that has animated New Yorkers and other Americans since Sept. 11 will stir a desire to ease domestic injustices. Antiwar radicals want Americans to put down their flags and address the global ills that the demonstrations in Washington were intended to dramatize.
But activists on both sides fear their chance to build a new left may already have passed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In New York's Union Square, a poet responds to the World Trade Center attack. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TERRORISM (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); SWEATSHOPS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LIVING WAGE (71%); TALIBAN (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RELIGION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



250 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Trying to Fight Two Wars at Once

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH has discovered how hard it is to fight two wars at once.
 Since the attacks he has been trying to steel Americans for a protracted struggle against an elusive foe, warning that "a lengthy campaign, unlike any other we have ever seen" lies ahead. The stock market reeled. 
 Last week, Mr. Bush also stood at Reagan National Airport, a runway's length from the Pentagon, and took on another threat. He said the airport should reopen immediately as a "symbol that America is back in business." The Secret Service, worried about the security risk, cringed. But the stock market surged. 
The administration is battling both global terrorism and economic malaise and is taking some friendly fire. Defeating terrorism requires unprecedented vigilance by airport security and border control agents, passengers on planes and buses, and bank managers who must assume any person could be suspect. Reviving the economy requires more risk-taking by investors, tourists and consumers who believe that the world is small and tomorrow will bring greater prosperity.
America will never be the same. The American way of life will never die. It is tricky to have it both ways.
"When you are telling people that we have a new, unsettled world it makes it that much harder to sustain a sense of well-being," said James R. Schlesinger, the former defense secretary who is now a senior advisor at Lehman Brothers, an investment bank. "The idea of a higher level of tension is not conducive to the sort of consumer confidence we have grown accustomed to."
The insidious challenge of terrorism is that America's leaders have to project caution and optimism. They try to persuade people that the world has changed, requiring heightened levels of security in everything from cyberspace to buses. Yet consumers should also act as if everything is fine -- pile up credit card debt, buy a dream house or take the kids to Disneyland. 
The matter is so touchy because in times of crisis the president and his cabinet have unusual sway over mass psychology, and psychology drives the American economy. Consumer spending and business investment account for the vast majority of economic activity, and they fluctuate depending on how much confidence people have in the future. The United States has had the world's strongest economy, at least in part because it is home to the world's most optimistic people.
Franklin D. Roosevelt appealed to that optimism with his exhortation during the Depression, "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself." So did Ronald Reagan with his "Morning in America" campaign.
Mr. Bush and his team have a tougher task. They cannot blithely claim tomorrow will be a better day when the nation faces the possibility of a cycle of terrorism and retaliation. Complacency could be an enemy in that struggle. Yet the administration is also starting to worry that all its war planning damages consumer confidence, which many economists believe has dropped sharply from already depressed levels.
Not coincidentally, Mr. Bush is now seen more in settings designed to rebuild confidence. His public agenda last week included meetings with Congressional leaders to discuss the budget. He flew to New York to announce his support for a big dose of stimulus spending. He dined out at a steak house in Washington.
But with every word being parsed, he and other top officials have to strike a delicate balance. Attorney General John Ashcroft wanted to pressure Congress to grant him new security powers when he warned that Americans had by no means seen the end of terrorist attacks at home. "There is a very serious threat of additional problems and, frankly, as the United States responds, that threat may escalate," he said.
After gas-mask sales soared and Wall Street traders blamed the comments for Monday's sell-off, administration officials scrambled. Mr. Ashcroft's warning was not based on fresh intelligence, they said. Mr. Ashcroft tried to soothe nerves. "There shouldn't be a cultural paralysis that curtails our activities," he said.
It is too early to assume the economy is paralyzed, of course. The terrorist attacks, themselves, probably did no more damage to overall output than a serious earthquake or hurricane. Reconstruction spending could actually boost the economy in some areas. The Federal Reserve's rapid-fire interest rate cuts should, ultimately, encourage people to borrow money at historically low rates and spend or invest it. Meanwhile, Congress is set to approve tens of billions of dollars in new spending.
BUT if Mr. Bush is right about a long struggle against a resilient enemy, the downturn could persist longer than it otherwise would.
Exuberance fired the 1990's boom, with consumers and businesses spending freely on the promise of ever-greater returns. That bubble was deflating even before the twin towers fell, adding fear to the mix. Economic models suggest low interest rates will eventually stoke consumer and business spending. But models do not measure emotion well, and few economists dare predict when people will stop feeling vulnerable.
Other countries have grappled with terrorism. The Irish Republican Army bombed shopping malls in London. Basque terrorists have tried to destabilize Spain. Suicide attacks are a daily reality in Israel.
But there is a chance that Americans will start acting like the Japanese, whose confidence levels have fallen for a decade. Despite interest rates at zero and a government that has generated gigantic deficits to fuel economic activity, the Japanese lost faith in their economic prospects. Few trust the promises of their leaders to deliver a better future.
The risk is not negligible. The Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, was criticized early on for predicting that stocks would rally (they slumped) and that the economy would avoid recession (most economists agree one is inevitable). No one faults him for sounding optimistic, but there is a fine line between upbeat and glib, and some critics felt he crossed it. Searching for a beacon on stability, Congress invited a former Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, to consult on remedies.
Now, Mr. O'Neill has sought to send a sober message about the interplay between the terrorist threat and the economic slump. He said Americans, like their leaders, will have to be cautious and confident.
"In a society like ours, that's marked by freedom and individual liberty," he said, "we've got to be able to assure people that they're not at huge risk to malevolent, terrible people. Then I would say that our economy is so strong and our potential is so great, that whatever the cost is, we'll suck it up and be able to absorb it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sale signs are up, but no one is buying, even during prime shopping hours, at a mall in White Plains, N.Y. (Richard Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



251 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: NOTEBOOK; 
Sprewell Is Repeating His Familiar Lament

BYLINE:  By MIKE WISE

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Latrell Sprewell is not buying the theory that the Knicks have enough to win the Eastern Conference. His belief has nothing to do with his confidence in his teammates. It is more about their collective size, he said.
 "We are thin up front," Sprewell, a four-time All-Star, said Friday as the Knicks wrapped up their fifth day of training camp here. "So I'm not going to sit up here and say we're a finals team right now. I don't necessarily feel that. I feel we have the potential to probably work towards that. But realistically, probably not. I'm just being straightforward." 
 Sprewell's we're-not-big-enough mantra has been running on for a while, ever since he publicly urged the Knicks to acquire his friend and former teammate Chris Webber, the league's premier power forward. 
But as another season of small ball nears for the Knicks, the lament is starting to fester. "I look at some of the other teams, and on paper they're a lot better than us," he said. "We're going to have to do a lot of work. We can't kid ourselves. I'm not trying to kid myself. We're going to have to work really hard to bring ourselves up to the level of some of these other teams. Some of them are really loaded."
Asked if he felt the need had to be addressed soon, he added: "I would've thought that last year. We've been small for a while now. It's no secret that this team needs size. I said it last year. I'm saying it this year. So I still feel that way until we actually get bigger. 
"We're just going to have to make up for that lack of size with a bunch of hustle, a lot of togetherness and a lot of playing well. If we go out there and don't play well, it's not going to be a pretty sight for us. We're going to have to shoot well and defend well and find a way to rebound well."
For what it is worth, General Manager Scott Layden has for months been scouring the league for a bona fide big man. Before the season begins, the Knicks would like to part with three complementary role players -- as they did to acquire Sprewell in 1999 -- to trade for a quality post player or an elite point guard. But then, so does everybody else.

Jordan vs. Carter
During the 2000 playoffs, Michael Jordan casually said he believed Kobe Bryant was a more complete player than Vince Carter. What seemed like a fair opinion at the time -- Bryant's Lakers were rolling and Carter had had a miserable series against the Knicks -- has ballooned into the absurd.
At his news conference last Monday, Jordan mentioned Bryant and Tracy McGrady as players he is looking forward to challenging in his return. The omission of Carter was brought up by a Toronto reporter, who wondered if Jordan had not issued "a bit of a snub."
"That's you guys," Jordan said. "I'm pretty sure I could have mentioned a lot of names. Everybody thinks I'm trying to omit Vince. I'm not. I didn't mention Iverson, but I don't hear anybody mention anything about Iverson. I think people are just trying to make this little competition between me and Vince." 
Jordan added: "He's a University of North Carolina guy. So am I. I respect him. He's made great strides in improvement and he will continue to improve. But there's no competition in that aspect. And if I forgot to mention him in the press conference, it was just to make it a point that I mentioned the other names. So don't try to make something out of nothing."
There is some history, but it is old and tired. After Jordan's comments in spring 2000, Carter's mother, Michelle, responded that August.
"Michael Jordan is entitled to his opinion just like I am entitled to mine," she said. "Now I have my opinion why Michael Jordan made so public his negative evaluation of Vince's game.
"One day when I meet Michael face to face, believe me, I would like to discuss that with him. If you think Kobe Bryant is a better player, wonderful. There are others who think Vince Carter is a better player. And who is better doesn't really make any difference. Kobe is a fantastic player. Vince is a fantastic player."
At any rate, by the time Jordan faces off against Carter -- the Raptors play the Wizards in a preseason game on Oct. 25 -- the Michael-disrespects-Vince hype will be beyond control.
You wonder if people do not have better things to worry about.

Mason Still Waiting
Day 5, Anthony Mason unemployed. This is not exactly stunning news, either. But when an All-Star forward fresh off a huge season cannot find decent compensation for his talent, it brings up a couple of issues.
Either Mason's stock is terribly low or this luxury-tax matter is really hurting his chances of landing with a team.
Mason's agent, Don Cronson, emphatically said his client would not play for anything less than the midlevel exception in Milwaukee -- roughly $20.8 million over four years.
The Bucks are hedging because they do not want to pay a league-imposed tax for going over the salary cap, which is a bit of a misnomer.
For one, the players this season are kicking back $180 million of their salaries into an escrow fund, to be distributed to all 29 teams. That's about $6.2 million a team. 
Two Eastern Conference executives, on condition of anonymity, said the league was proposing to penalize teams over the luxury tax by refunding only 90 percent of that escrow-fund money this season. Next season, the total would be about 70 percent and the following, 40 percent.
Neither the league nor the union will confirm these figures -- or that it is referred to as the Paul Allen Rule -- but the idea is to strongly encourage owners like Portland's Allen, a billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, not to overspend ridiculously.
Still, if escrow money refunded begins to balance out money lost on luxury tax, how is using an exception such a huge deal? 
"You know what? The N.B.A. is the National Beancounters Association," Cronson said. "Or the National Bottom-Line Association."
Cronson is not the only player agent who wonders aloud why the league refers to its over-the-cap signings as "exceptions," when, in fact, they are counted against the luxury tax.
"What's wrong with the midlevel exception -- any exception for that matter -- without the encumbrance of a luxury tax?" he said. "The exception should be the exception. This would not be a huge number and it would help mostly the older veterans, which is what the collective bargaining agreement was supposed to accomplish."
From Cronson's point of view, Mason, a former Knick, was his client from the beginning, from Springfield Gardens, Queens, to outback leagues in Turkey, Argentina and beyond. Now that Mason is 34, Cronson wants at least one more long-term contract for his friend and client, to reward his perseverance on the court.
Yet what is the great crime in playing one season of pro basketball for $1 million, the veteran exception for which Michael Jordan will play this season?

Abdur-Rahim's Donations
Troubled by the terrorist attacks, Atlanta's All-Star forward Shareef Abdur-Rahim last week told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he had persuaded several of his peers to donate several hundred thousand dollars to survivors before the season is over.
With the help of his management team, Abdur-Rahim recruited Stephon Marbury, Gary Payton, Damon Stoudamire, Brian Grant and Alonzo Mourning to support his cause.
Abdur-Rahim and Grant will donate $100 for each rebound this season, Payton, Stoudamire and Marbury $100 for each assist. Mourning will donate $100 for every blocked shot. If they duplicate last season's statistics, the six would pool $336,300 toward relief efforts.
"I'm trying to get some corporations to join us and underwrite our efforts and contribute with us," Abdur-Rahim said. "We would like to make this thing as significant as we can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Latrell Sprewell says the Knicks are not big enough to compete for the conference title. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



252 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE VICE PRESIDENT; 
Out Front or Low Profile, Cheney Keeps Powerful Role

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Five days after the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, Vice President Dick Cheney gave a riveting account on television of his role in the first hours of the crisis, including how President Bush followed his advice to order fighter jets to shoot down any rogue airliner that threatened the Capitol or White House. 
 Since then, Mr. Cheney has all but vanished from public view, leaving Mr. Bush and his cabinet secretaries to spell out the administration's goals in the war on terrorism.
 In a rare public appearance on Friday, Mr. Cheney stood dutifully next to Mr. Bush at a Rose Garden ceremony as the president announced the administration's new tax cut proposal. Mr. Cheney looked more rested than Mr. Bush, but he left all the talking to his boss. 
The television appearance the Sunday after the attacks may have left the impression that the vice president was the man in command at the White House, an image he has apparently sought to dispel by keeping a low profile since then. But behind the scenes, Mr. Cheney continues to play a major role as war minister, uber diplomat, political adviser and consigliere to President Bush, lawmakers, military officials and top White House aides say. 
Mr. Cheney was one of the leading administration voices urging Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who loathes traveling abroad, to visit Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, Oman, Turkey and Egypt this week to work out military logistics and meet defense leaders in the region. He telephones Mr. Rumsfeld, his mentor from the Ford administration, two to three times a day. 
Mr. Bush followed Mr. Cheney's recommendation to announce the creation of the Office of Homeland Security in a speech to a joint meeting of Congress on Sept. 20. Mr. Cheney also advised that Tom Ridge, the Republican governor of Pennsylvania and longtime Bush ally, fill the new cabinet-level post as head of the office. 
When a bipartisan deal aimed at avoiding a fight over government spending for 2002 began to unravel on Capitol Hill last week, Mr. Cheney was dispatched to negotiate with House Democrats and quell a revolt among House conservatives, who were angry that the accord increased spending next year by several billion more than Mr. Bush requested. Working the phones and twisting arms, he succeeded. 
"Whenever Cheney's in there, you know they're serious," said David Sirota, a spokesman for Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the last holdout on the spending deal. "He's the heavy in the administration." 
It is the multidimensional role that Mr. Bush had in mind for Mr. Cheney, a 60-year-old former secretary of defense, White House chief of staff and House Republican leader, when he picked him as his political partner last year. 
With few political appointees in place in the administration's early days, Mr. Cheney seemed to run the government almost single-handedly. But the vice president's influence appeared to wane over the summer after he underwent his third cardiac procedure since November, and the national energy plan he supervised was criticized for giving short shrift to conservation measures. 
Any doubts about Mr. Cheney's star power ended abruptly after his command performance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" on Sept. 16. Not only did he relate vivid details of ordering the evacuation of Congressional leaders and cabinet members, but he also delivered a blunt, clinical assessment of the war ahead. 
In fact, some prominent Republicans said, the interview with the program's host, Tim Russert, was just a bit too commanding for senior White House aides like Karl Rove and Karen P. Hughes. In allowing Mr. Cheney to describe his role, the aides walked a fine line between reaffirming the vice president's stature and having him overshadow the president. 
"He went on Russert with the best of intentions -- to be part of an orchestrated campaign to calm the nation's nerves," said an administration adviser who is close to Mr. Cheney. "He succeeded. But he may have rattled the nerves of some of the people right around the president, like Rove and Hughes." 
Mr. Rove and Ms. Hughes have denied being upset or concerned with Mr. Cheney's interview. But Mr. Cheney has not given any interviews since then. 
Mary Matalin, Mr. Cheney's chief political adviser, said the vice president would make some public comments in the coming week. The White House's communications strategy until now has been to put Mr. Bush out front, supported by cabinet members like Secretary of State Colin L. Powell or Attorney General John Ashcroft, she said. 
"He's a 'special use' communicator," Ms. Matalin said. "It would be a waste of resources to have him out there every day." 
All of which befits Mr. Cheney's view of the vice presidency, say friends and associates. 
"Cheney's been extremely careful, because he and Rumsfeld are the inventors of the 'there can only be one president' doctrine," said the administration adviser close to Mr. Cheney. "They insisted to Ford that the word leader is singular and not plural. This reflects Cheney's belief. The vice president is different from a cabinet secretary. As such, he has to play a different kind of role, and there can't be confusion about who the leader is. And there isn't." 
As the loyal and trusted adviser, Mr. Cheney has never been far from Mr. Bush's beck and call since Sept. 11. His only significant trip was last weekend, when he and his wife, Lynne, slipped away to Wyoming for a reunion of old friends. 
Otherwise, it is a job that begins at 8 a.m. in the Oval Office, where Mr. Cheney sits down for coffee with the president and his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, and, increasingly, the director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, to review world affairs and the latest intelligence reports on terrorism. 
Since the attacks, Mr. Bush has convened his National Security Council at about 10 a.m. in the White House situation room every weekday, with Mr. Cheney seated just to his right. Those who attend say Mr. Cheney saves his most candid advice for Mr. Bush alone, making it difficult to pin down Mr. Cheney's precise thinking. The two men have continued their weekly private lunch during the crisis. 
Ms. Matalin said that the punishing schedule had not affected Mr. Cheney's health, and that doctors assigned to him around the clock monitor him closely. He exercises several times a week on a treadmill.
As the military preparations fall into place for a strike against targets in Afghanistan, Mr. Cheney has reached out to other members of a national security team that presided over the 1991 Persian Gulf war under Mr. Bush's father, President George Bush. The vice president talks almost daily with Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, his top foreign policy adviser when he was defense secretary, and occasionally with Mr. Powell, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Ten days ago, Mr. Cheney, a former member of the House Intelligence Committee, spent three hours at C.I.A. headquarters receiving classified briefings on counterterrorism and other subjects. 
"He fuses all the major elements together," said one top Pentagon official. "He knows how the press plays. He knows Capitol Hill like the back of his hand. And he has all that experience from the gulf war." 
Mr. Cheney has emphasized to Mr. Bush the importance of building coalitions, and since the attacks has met with the foreign ministers of Italy and China, as well as the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad Bin Khalifa Thani and President Eduard A. Shevardnadze of Georgia. 
"He's reinforcing the president's instincts to reach out," said Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser to Mr. Bush's father. 
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Cheney has been a prime, if low-key, force behind the administration's proposals on counterterrorism, economic stimulus and aviation safety. 
Last Tuesday, Mr. Cheney met privately with Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and half a dozen other House Republican leaders to review domestic policy and the campaign against terrorism. 
But it was his appearance at the Senate Democrats' weekly lunch that caused an even bigger stir. Democrats who before the attacks had griped about Mr. Cheney's partisanship, gave him a standing ovation, to which Mr. Cheney responded deadpan, "I wish I was treated this well by some of the Republican caucuses I've been to."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the National Security Council met on Tuesday, Vice President Dick Cheney was, as usual, to the right of President Bush. Others, from the left of Mr. Bush, are Colin L. Powell, Donald H. Rumsfeld, Condoleezza Rice and Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's chief of staff, next to Mr. Cheney. (Associated Press/The White House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIRLINES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX RELIEF (54%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (93%); DAVE OBEY (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



253 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Some See Giuliani as Right for an Emergency, but Wrong for Rebuilding 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has long been admired for his crime-fighting skills at a time when the city seemed ungovernable, and more recently for his dynamic leadership in the wake of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
 But now, looking to the future, a number of urban planners and real estate executives say that Mr. Giuliani -- like Winston Churchill at the end of World War II -- is not the man to lead the city's rebuilding effort as the head of an expected city-state commission on reconstruction. 
 The mayor has been brilliant and resolute in leading the city through the recent crisis, they say, but he did not bring his laserlike focus to economic development during his two terms in office. And they wish he had been faster in moving from dealing with the emergency to developing a broad-based strategy for reconstructing Lower Manhattan. 
"In 1945, British voters said, 'Winnie, we love you; thanks for winning the war, but now we need someone else to secure the peace,' " said Robert D. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a group that deals with development issues. "Rudy, who never had a commitment to big transportation or development projects in the city, has been our Winston Churchill. He goes into history as the mayor who brought us through this tragic period. But as with Churchill, people are ready for someone else to rebuild the city."
Deputy Mayor Robert Harding dismissed the criticisms, saying the administration had used targeted tax breaks to encourage investment and presided over record job growth. "For the first time in memory, the city has outpaced the nation in job growth for the past two years," Mr. Harding said. "That's not to diminish the fact that crime reduction was an economic catalyst."
Mr. Yaro's comments were echoed by several developers and executives in the real estate industry, which has contributed generously to Mr. Giuliani's campaigns and provided considerable political support.
Often Republican but fundamentally pragmatic, many developers and brokers decided as an industry to raise $250,000 for each of the four major Democratic mayoral candidates before last month's primary. Now that the Democratic field has narrowed, many real estate executives say they will support Mark Green because they object to the oft-stated suggestion by his opponent, Fernando Ferrer, that the city should encourage decentralization of the financial industry to places other than Lower Manhattan. 
While not discounting Mr. Giuliani's successes in fighting crime, many said they have been frustrated by his seeming lack of interest in a coherent, thoughtful economic development policy. But few are willing to speak for attribution about the future because, they said, the mayor is a lame duck with a sharp bite.
Even one of Manhattan's more prolific developers, who favored extending Mr. Giuliani's term for the sake of continuity, said the mayor would be the wrong person to head the rebuilding effort. "He's not really the right guy," the developer said. "He's great for crime and safety."
The city has acted quickly to resolve some emergency problems. Bruce Warwick, president of Columbus Center LLC, the developer building the AOL Time Warner project at Columbus Circle, credited the Giuliani administration with moving swiftly last week to identify a site for a temporary concrete plant on the waterfront near West 57th Street after traffic tie-ups prevented hundreds of concrete trucks from reaching Manhattan construction sites. "I have found that this administration really wants to be helpful when there are problems," Mr. Warwick said.
At the mayor's morning staff meetings, Mr. Giuliani moves quickly around the room quizzing each of his commissioners on the status of the cleanup downtown, the reopening of streets and the distribution of death certificates. But, said one participant, there is little or no discussion about a strategy for retaining corporations displaced by the attack or about economic development plans.
The president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, Michael Carey, said the city was working with displaced companies, trying to come up with an incentive package as well as plans for rebuilding the neighborhood. "We understand the urgency," Mr. Carey said. "We are talking to the state and federal government, trying to come up with something that makes the most sense. Hopefully, in the not-too-distant future we'll come up with an across-the-board program."
Real estate brokers and business executives acknowledged that the immediate tasks are daunting and time-consuming, so it may be hard for the administration to quickly develop an incentive plan to keep companies in New York City, especially when it is unclear how much federal aid there will be and how it can be used. But they said they wished that Mr. Giuliani or his deputy mayors would make reassuring telephone calls to chief executives at companies like American Express and Morgan Stanley, which is looking for up to 500,000 square feet of office space in New Jersey. Morgan Stanley is also negotiating to sell its 38-story tower nearing completion at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street to Lehman Brothers for $700 million, according to a real estate broker who was briefed on the talks.
Hugh O'Neil, an economic development consultant and a former executive with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said the Giuliani administration has not "in any active sense" ever focused on economic development. The mayor supported the resurgence of Times Square in recent years, Mr. O'Neil said, but that was a state project that dated to 1982. A buoyant economy fueled job growth and residential construction, which the mayor encouraged, but few initiatives consumed Mr. Giuliani's attention.
Fred Siegel, a history professor at Cooper Union who regards Mr. Giuliani as one of the city's great mayors, conceded that economic development "was not his strong point," though Mr. Siegel said the administration was able to steer technology firms to Brooklyn and Queens, at least before the industry collapsed.
"There was a tendency to focus a lot of energy on issues and projects that are not central to the future needs of the economy, like baseball stadiums and the cross-harbor rail tunnel," Mr. O'Neil said. "The mayor deserves credit for creating an environment that helped make the expansion of the last six or seven years possible. But as that winds down, there's a need for a vision of where the city's economy might be headed and how we can build on its strengths to capture the next round of growth."
In 1994, when Mr. Giuliani entered office, the crime rate, while starting to fall, was still high enough to scare tourists and business executives. He focused on regaining control of the streets, reducing crime and solving quality-of-life issues. Although police tactics sometimes alienated residents of black and Hispanic neighborhoods, his strategy ultimately helped encourage investment in New York and the tourism boom.
But, urban planners and developers said, Mr. Giuliani often delegated economic development issues to his deputies, who had little power. And the mayor was at odds with Gov. George E. Pataki on virtually every economic development issue in the city, an impasse that delayed or killed projects like the expansion of the convention center, the Second Avenue subway, the redevelopment of Times Square and Columbus Circle and the Queens West project.
They said that the mayor was also slow to react in 1998 when big companies began moving some operations to New Jersey because of Manhattan's shortage of office space. Last summer, the administration and the City Council put into place a package of tax breaks designed to encourage companies to move to Downtown Brooklyn and Long Island City, rather than New Jersey.
"They passed a program after the recession set in and 10 million square feet of office space had migrated to Jersey City," said one developer with close ties to the administration. "After a decade of prosperity we should have more to show for it than a 7,000-seat stadium in Coney Island."
That is why many developers say that while they maintain ties to the administration, which controls discretionary permits and tax incentives, they also want to see someone else in charge of a plan for future economic development.
"The mayor's style is command and control," said Elliott D. Sclar, director of the urban planning program at Columbia University. "He handles emergencies brilliantly. But the mayor we need is someone who can do things collaboratively, not just in the city but in the region. The financial services industry has been oozing out of Manhattan for years. The real challenge is going to be to redefine Lower Manhattan as the center of a regional financial services industry."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some urban planners and developers fault Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, at ground zero with a Congressional delegation, saying he has no strategy for economic development. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



254 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Diversity, and Complexity, Of the Muslim World

 BODY:
 From its origin in what is now Saudi Arabia, Islam has spread throughout the world, and is now as ethnically diverse as it is geographically broad. Many governments are faced with increasingly radical, and violent, Islamic elements. Here is a broad look at the geography of the Muslim world and its often charged internal politics.

GRAPHIC: Chart/MapThe Two Main Branches SUNNI -- Roughly 85 percent of the world's Muslims, Sunnis believe that the four caliphs, or religious leaders, are the rightful successors to Muhammad. SHIITE -- They regard Ali, the son-in-law of Muhammad, as the legitimate successor. People and Politics Comparative measures for some Islamic countries. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: ALGERIA -- RepublicPOPULATION: 31.7 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $5,500Has had a bloody conflict between the army and Islamic fundamentalists, who command considerable popularity. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: EGYPT -- RepublicPOPULATION: 69.5 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $3,600A partial democracy, but one that severely represses Islamic fundamentalists, some of whom assassinated President Anwar el-Sadat in 1981. Two Egyptians, Ayman al-Zawahiri and Muhammad Atef, are said to be the probable successors to Osama bin Laden. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: INDONESIA -- RepublicPOPULATION: 228.4 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $2,900The world's most populous Muslim country. President Megawati Sukarnoputri has supported President Bush, and the country as a whole is relatively liberal in its philosophy, but some radical Muslims have called for Islamic law and for expelling Americans. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: IRAN -- Theocratic republicPOPULATION: 66.1 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $6,300A non-Arab and overwhelmingly Shiite country. Though a conservative Islamic state, it is fiercely against the Taliban in mostly Sunni Afghanistan. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: MALAYSIA -- Constitutional monarchyPOPULATION: 22.2 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $10,300A relatively tolerant pro-Western country with a large non-Muslim minority. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: MOROCCO -- Constitutional monarchyPOPULATION: 30.6 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $3,500A liberal-minded country with strong European influences. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: PAKISTAN -- Federal republicPOPULATION: 144.6 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $2,000Increasingly under the sway of fundamentalist Muslims. Although the army is now in command, advocates of an Islamic state have grown more prominent. COUNTRY / TYPE OF GOVERNMENT: SAUDI ARABIA -- MonarchyPOPULATION: 22.8 millionG.D.P. PER CAPITA: $10,500Deeply conservative Muslim country whose leaders adhere to the Wahhabi sect. Strictly follows Islamic law, and many citizens fought in Afghanistan in the 1980's. NOTE: Population figures are estimates as of July 2001; G.D.P. figures are estimates for 2000 on a purchasing-power parity basis.(Sources: C.I.A. World Factbook; Census Bureau International Data Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (91%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



255 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: AN OVERVIEW: OCT. 6, 2001; 
Warnings to the Taliban, Diplomatic Difficulties and Israeli Concerns

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
"Time is running out," President Bush warned the Taliban government in Afghanistan, and as if to underline those words, the military action that is coming took more defined shape.

THE DEPLOYMENT -- American forces continued to mobilize in and around Central Asia, with troops moving into Uzbekistan, on Afghanistan's northern border. Other forces advanced by air and sea.
 But even though the United States wants and needs partners in its campaign against Osama bin Laden and the Taliban, it became increasingly clear that it is also prepared to strike against terrorists and their patrons largely on its own. An emerging reality is that Washington may have little alternative. 

THE DIPLOMACY -- Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld returned home after visiting five friendly nations in the region without any getting any assurances -- in public, at least -- that the American military will be able to launch strikes into Afghanistan from their territory.

On the contrary. Countries like Uzbekistan and Saudi Arabia signaled that their airfields would be available to support American operations but not to serve as bases for the warplanes that will actually fly into Afghanistan. In Uzbekistan, for example, airfields may be used for search-and-rescue operations or to bring in supplies for American forces.
 Is that level of support satisfactory to the Bush administration? Apparently yes, if only because this may be as good as it gets, given the political constraints that each of those countries feels. But administration officials sounded confident that they had gotten enough of what is needed, for what will probably be a long and unpredictable war against Mr. bin Laden's Al Qaeda terrorist network and his Taliban patrons.
 Besides, some officials said, there could be a certain advantage to Washington's status as something of a lone wolf in this campaign. Maintaining coalitions is not easy, as was shown by the 1999 war in Kosovo and by the war in the Persian Gulf a decade ago. As one senior administration official put it, "The fewer people you have to rely on, the fewer permissions you have to get."

THE ALLIANCE -- Still, in this operation, the Americans are forced to build alliances with tricky components. One complication is the need to get help from Arab states while nursing Washington's relations with Israel.
 On that front, strains continued after a series of unpleasant exchanges over open Bush administration support for a Palestinian state. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel warned Mr. Bush that he risked appeasing the Arabs the way European nations appeased Hitler in the 1930's, a comparison dismissed by the White House as unacceptable.
 By the weekend, the Israelis sought to calm the situation, with Foreign Minister Shimon Peres calling the harsh words "an exception to the rule" of a strong American-Israeli relationship. But that did not end obvious differences between the two countries on how the anti-terrorism coalition should go about its business.

THE INTELLIGENCE -- It certainly will not be business as usual, said George J. Tenet, the American director of central intelligence. He was not referring to Middle East politics, though. Rather, Mr. Tenet said that in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies had to end their squabbling and turf wars. There was not nearly enough coordination and sharing of information, the director said.
 "If there is some bureaucratic hurdle, leap it," he said in a memo dated Sept. 16. Its title made his main point succinctly: "We're at War."

THE ECONOMY -- Also looking for fundamental change was the American insurance industry, which followed the lead of the airlines in seeking emergency government aid. The administration and Congress are working on legislation to have taxpayers pay major insurance claims that result from terrorist attacks. Without such help, corporate executives caution, many companies will find themselves in serious trouble, though some skeptical lawmakers are asking if the requested aid amounts to an unjustified bailout. CLYDE HABERMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); SHIMON PERES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



256 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Despite its epochal name, the clicks-and-mortar age may be quietly assimilated.

BYLINE:  By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
REMEMBER the new economy? What does it mean -- if anything -- anymore?
 The catchy term, in its headiest formulation, was a symbolic shorthand for the power of technology to transform the economy, investment strategy, business thinking, even modern culture. Advances in computing and the rollout of the Internet, according to the new economy theory, would change just about everything, and very quickly. 
 After the collapse of the dot-com bubble, a steady retreat in technology stocks this year and an old-fashioned recession surely under way, the new economy theory requires some revision, to put it kindly. 
Its biggest problem came first -- the word new. Almost nothing about the rise of the Internet in the 1990's was really new. 
Yes, new technologies fuel economic growth and productivity. And that has been the story since the dawn of the industrial age. In the 13 centuries until 1800, economic historians estimate, real output per person in Western Europe grew at an annual rate of two-tenths of a percent or less. Since then, the real output per head in the industrialized nations has grown an average of 1.6 percent a year, thanks to the relentless march of innovation.
Impressive as the wonders of the Internet may be, historians point out that all of the technological advances of the post-World War II era probably cannot match the burst of invention that came from the 1850's to 1903: the Bessemer steel-making process, the telegraph, the light bulb, the phonograph, the telephone, the radio, the automobile, rapid transit (subways and elevated trains), the diesel engine, mechanical refrigeration and the airplane.
Frequently, the new technologies of the past touched off relatively brief periods of business euphoria, disenchantment and consolidation, typically lasting 5 to 10 years. It was part of the investment cycle evident in the creation of the railroad, electric power and automobile industries, among others. From 1900 to 1925, there were more than 3,000 automobile start-ups in America turning out cars of every imaginable design. Some had six wheels, others had shiplike tillers for steering.
"You can take the Internet bubble and just drop it into the same mold," observed Thomas Eisenmann, an assistant professor at the Harvard Business School.
Internet technology, to be sure, is not historically or economically unique. Still, it is significant. The Internet, put simply, is a low-cost communications technology. That alone is a big deal, helping reduce the cost of transactions, price discovery and information retrieval in the economy. In addition, the Internet is a communications network with some distinctive features. 
The Internet and the Web together are a medium made of software, which is to say programmable. That makes the Internet a far more flexible medium than other communications technologies like the telephone. So Web pages, for example, can substitute for paper forms, mail and facsimiles -- automating company purchase orders to suppliers and other kinds of so-called back-office transactions.
Such unglamorous dealings in the engine rooms of corporate America represent a big part of the modern economy. For years, companies have been trying to automate these transactions, with systems like electronic data interchange, or E.D.I. The drawback to E.D.I., though, is that it typically requires expensive software and private network connections. The public Internet offers a far less costly alternative, opening the door to efficiency gains for small companies as well as large corporations. 
That kind of economically significant assimilation of Internet technology has begun, but experts believe its impact will continue to spread the next decade or more. An 18-month study, led by the Brookings Institution, concluded in September that the likely impact of Internet technology will be to add one-quarter to one-half percentage point annually to the productivity growth of the United States economy the next five years.
"Economically, the Internet is just like electricity," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at Brookings. "First, it's new and exciting. Then it steadily transforms your economy. And decades later nobody would think to call it the electricity economy. It's just there."
The fractional improvements to productivity add up. Over a decade, the one-quarter to one-half percent a year becomes additional economic growth of 2.5 percent to 5 percent. On a per capita basis, Mr. Litan noted, that works out to about $1,250 to $2,500 of added wealth. "That's as big as any tax cut we'll ever see," he said.
None of that, Mr. Litan added, depends on the fate of the remaining Internet companies. "All the dot-coms could disappear," he said, "and it wouldn't make any difference."
Dan Bricklin is a veteran of an earlier version of the new economy, when the personal computer industry began to take off. In 1979, Mr. Bricklin, then a student at the Harvard Business School, helped the personal computer business catch fire when he and Bob Frankston created VisiCalc, an electronic spreadsheet -- the first "killer app," or killer application, for the fledgling personal computer industry. 
Today, Mr. Bricklin is founder and chief technology officer of Trellix, which makes Web site technology for small businesses. It should be, he believes, a solid, steadily growing market as smaller companies increasingly adopt Internet technology.
Yet, Mr. Bricklin said, what fueled much of the dot-com boom and the frantic investment by large companies, worried that they would soon be "Amazoned," was an intellectual lapse. "The mistake was the impulse to grossly over-generalize, to think that everything was going to go online and that all companies would use the Internet the same way, the way Amazon did," he said.
The trouble with the new economy theory, it seems, is that it was simple-minded. Some see a reactionary simple-mindedness today.
"When the dot-com bubble burst, the pendulum swung and probably too far," observed Garth Saloner, an economist and professor at Stanford's business school. "Even the image of a burst bubble is a misnomer. It suggests that all that's left is suds on the floor. And that's not true."
"The Internet is an important technology, but technological change takes time to work through the economy and society," Mr. Saloner added. "It's not a deep insight, but a lot of people lost sight of that simple fact for a long time."
So the new economy was not so new after all. But the technology still matters -- as it always has.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRODUCTIVITY 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



257 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Owner of Railroad Tracks To Reorganize in Britain
In an attempt to save Britain's railway system from collapse, Railtrack, the company that owns the tracks, will undergo an emergency restructuring that stops short of reverting to government control, a British court ruled.
 Under what is the American equivalent of bankruptcy protection, Railtrack will reorganize into a new private company. It will cease having public stockholders and will be required to reinvest all proceeds into the business to help maintain the system. Page C6. 

Intel to Unveil Chip Breakthrough
Intel plans to announce today that its researchers have come up with a novel method for housing microprocessors that it hopes will speed development of high-performance microchips with more than a billion transistors. The company says such chips could be available in five or six years. C5.

Comics Debate Portrayal of Attacks
Like others in the entertainment industry, comic book writers and artists, and their publishers, are debating how to portray the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, but there is little agreement about future, commercial steps. DC Comics has indefinitely postponed publication of one violent comic and rewritten forthcoming stories to eliminate references to terrorism. On the other hand, Marvel Comics has decided to confront the attacks head on in Amazing Spider-Man No. 36, to be published by the beginning of November. C9.

Biotechnology Start-Ups Struggle
The $25 billion biotechnology sector is riding a wave of innovation focused mainly on health products, traditionally one of the economy's most recession-resistant sectors. But smaller biotechnology start-ups are struggling right now, judging from the fervent pitches that scores of them presented to venture capitalists at a meeting last week. Market Place. C10.

The New Meaning of New Economy
The catchy term "new economy" was a symbolic shorthand for the power of technology to transform the economy, investment strategy, business thinking, even modern culture. But after the collapse of the dot-com bubble and an old-fashioned recession surely under way, the new economy theory requires some revision, to put it kindly. New Economy. C3.

More Web Spending, With a Focus
Going into September, senior managers were already less than enthusiastic about big corporate Internet initiatives. Now, they are even more fixated on prompt payoffs from any investments and seem poised to spend more on a handful of areas -- including Internet security, technology recovery systems and telecommuting gear -- and that should mean more business for companies with those specialties. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

Ads Adopt a Patriotic Flavor
A month after the terrorist attacks on the United States, Madison Avenue is wrapping itself in red, white and blue in an outpouring of patriotism not seen in mainstream advertising since World War II. Already, though, there are complaints about the inappropriateness of using profound symbols for commercial purposes from critics who are concerned that the trend is more jingoistic than patriotic and more exploitive than altruistic. C10.

The Silicon Alley Reporter Closes
The Silicon Alley Reporter, known for its boosterism of New York's new media entrepreneurs, has published its last issue. C9.

Quicker Patents to Fight Terrorism
Under a Patent and Trademark Office provision, inventors seeking patents for devices, methods or technologies aimed at counterterrorism can petition to jump to the front of the line. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,119.77 up 272.21Nasdaq composite -- 1,605.30 up 106.5010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.50% down 0.09The euro -- $0.9180 up 0.0081The dollar -- 120.34 yen up 1.22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (71%); WRITERS (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); TELECOMMUTING (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



258 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Financing has dried upfor biotechnology start-ups with big dreams for fighting disease.

BYLINE:  By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
THE $25 billion biotechnology sector is riding a wave of innovation focused primarily on health products, traditionally one of the most recession-resistant sectors of the economy.
 But smaller biotechnology start-ups are struggling right now, judging from the fervent pitches that scores of them presented to venture capitalists last week at a two-day meeting in Washington, held by the Biotechnology Industry Organization and the Tech Council of Maryland. 
 The start-ups were the segment of the industry hit hardest when biotechnology's financial pulse slowed along with the rest of the economy this year and then skipped a beat or two after Sept. 11. There is no appetite for new stock offerings, and the limited crowd of biotechnology venture capitalists, who invested a total of $2.78 billion last year, gave three of every four dollars to the more mature start-ups with products nearer to market, according to a report released last week by the accounting firm of Ernst & Young. 
Entrepreneurs and bankers at the conference said that valuations for the newest companies, which peaked last year, had dropped as much as 50 percent before last month's terrorist attacks. Companies that failed to raise enough money the past two years to get them through the next two are finding that some venture capitalists are reducing the amounts they are willing to invest. Others are demanding a larger share of the company, higher priority in future payouts or other favorable terms. A few are both offering less, but demanding more.
"From talking to investors, I figure our valuation has dropped by about a third since Sept. 11," said Daniel H. Fylstra, president of Sierra Sciences, a two-year-old company based in Reno, Nev., that aims to alter the chemistry that causes cells to age and die. Mr. Fylstra was looking for $5 million to support continuing research at Sierra, which does not expect to have F.D.A.-approved products or a public stock offering before 2004.
Right now, investor skittishness has much more to do with concerns about how quickly they will be paid back and the difficulty of singling out potential winners than doubts about the long-range potential of the biotechnology industry.
The bulk of today's biotechnology sales come from just 120 products that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. But the pipeline has been swelling rapidly. Nearly 300 more new drugs are in Phase 3 clinical trials, the last stage of testing before companies can seek approval from the F.D.A. to go to market. As many as 60 could reach the market in the near future, according to R. Nelson Campbell, an investment banker specializing in biotechnology for Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company in Arlington, Va. "The industry could double in the next two years," he said.
And after that? Well, no one with small dreams was invited to the Washington conference. 
Those who attended arrived flushed with the possibilities of such breakthroughs as the preliminary mapping last year of the human genome, which for the first time offered researchers a peek at the entire chemical code that goes into creating a human being. They came armed with rapidly expanding data on the nature of the bacteria, viruses and other antagonists that make people sick; novel theories on how to fight the ways human bodies wear out with age; and innovative tools for research, diagnosis and drug development.
It was a meeting for executives and scientists not yet far enough into their work to have serious doubts about whether their visions will pan out. In 10-minute presentation after 10-minute presentation, they pleaded with the fund managers and bankers to give them enough money to make their dreams reality, or at least to sustain them for another year of development work.
The goals are compelling. AngioGenex, based in New York, hopes to figure out how to shut down the "inhibition of differentiation," or I.D., gene, which scientists at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Research Center identified in 1999 as the generator of a protein essential to the growth of tumors. FASgen, based in Baltimore, aims to control cellular production of a chemical involved in converting carbohydrates to fat in all living things. Drugs to attack obesity and tuberculosis are FASgen's first two targets.
RHeoGene, based in Charlottesville, Va., is trying to make the genetic equivalent of a dimmer switch. By carefully raising and lowering the amount of a protein a gene is producing, RHeoGene could initially help researchers figure out the functions of the more than 500,000 proteins the body produces, and, eventually, how to more finely tune the performance of drugs. 
And numerous companies pitched concepts aimed at improving products already in the market, like Juvenir Biosciences, a Johnson & Johnson spinoff based in Skillman, N.J. Juvenir is developing a compound it says will fight acne better than Accutane, the current leader in that $600 million market, without Accutane's potential for causing birth defects when used by pregnant women.
"The better, faster, cheaper crowd is proliferating," said Bryan Roberts, a general partner specializing in health care at Venrock Associates, a venture capital firm in New York.
As investors like Mr. Roberts are well aware, even products much farther along in their development than any featured last week in Washington can falter before reaching the market. A string of such late-stage disappointments dealt the biotechnology sector a crushing blow in the mid-1990's -- a period of crashing stock prices and fleeing venture capitalists that industry insiders now refer to as "the biotech winter."
But the new Ernst & Young report shows how far the industry has come since then. In 1995, there were 10 biotechnology companies with a market capitalization over $1 billion. By the middle of this year, there were 63. Perhaps more importantly, after raising more than $33 billion in public and private offerings last year and another $5.7 billion in the first six months of this year, 54 percent of the companies Ernst & Young surveyed had enough money to last them three years or more, up from 35 percent just two years ago.
"Balance sheets have never been stronger," said Rene Salas, a biotechnology specialist in Ernst & Young's Washington office.
With many bigger biotechnology companies on firmer footing, some financially pressed start-ups now have the option of forming alliances within their industry as an alternative to winning support from investors or from the traditional drug companies, known in the industry as Big Pharma.
"There were more deals between biotech companies to form alliances than between biotech and Big Pharma starting in 1999," said Linda F. Powers, managing partner of the Toucan Capital Corporation, a Bethesda, Md., investment fund. Last year, she added, biotechnology firms supplanted traditional drug makers as the most likely acquirers of smaller biotechnology companies.
Still, there are not enough potential alliance partners or acquirers to go around for entrepreneurs like those in Washington, which leaves those venture capitalists willing to place long-range bets in a strong bargaining position for now.
"You almost expect them to rip off their suits and show you T-shirts saying 'Osama made me do it' when you look at some of the term sheets," said one chief executive, after discretely checking to see who was within earshot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); US FDA APPROVALS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (66%); CLINICAL TRIALS (66%); APPROVALS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) GENETICS AND HEREDITY; VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (60%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: AI (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (73%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



259 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: What Now for Wireless? Facing Harsh Realities; 
An Industry Adopts a New Pragmatism

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
In Manhattan last June, Discover magazine convened a panel of technology experts from companies that included I.B.M., Walt Disney and Nokia to hold forth on the future of wireless technology. 
 Among the blue-sky predictions were cellphones that would let prospective home buyers find a house's price simply by pointing the device at the building. Another brainstorm involved a wireless toaster that would burn an image of the day's weather forecast right onto a piece of bread. 
 These days, such a giddy gathering is hard to imagine. Last month's terrorist attacks and the mounting evidence of a recession have had a sobering effect on many businesses. The wireless communications industry, in particular, has been forced to curb its futurism. 
Instead of house-hunting gimmicks, executives in the wireless industry are now talking about more mundane services like simple text messaging. Rather than weather reports on toast, wireless officials are concentrating on making their networks robust enough to handle more callers in peak periods. 
Much of the new pragmatism comes from wireless technology's prominent role on Sept. 11, when people spoke to one another or sent short e-mail messages by cellphone or pager. The utility of wireless communications was made even more dramatically clear by victims who called their families from hijacked airplanes and from inside the burning World Trade Center towers.
But some of the wireless industry's shortcomings were also highlighted.
So far, for example, few wireless subscribers even know they have text-messaging, let alone how to use it. And in many cases, so many people tried simultaneously to make cellphone calls that no one could get through. 
"I plead guilty to being one of the spokespersons for the fanciful things wireless technology promised," said Dennis Roberson, chief technology officer of Motorola. "The events of Sept. 11 convinced me of the overwhelming importance of communications on a basic level."
The new pragmatism is most apparent among industry executives and analysts. But venture capitalists, formerly willing to finance even fanciful projects, are taking note. Earlier this year, for example, ComVentures, an investment firm in Palo Alto, Calif., decided to avoid financing start-ups that focus on unproven wireless services.
Instead, ComVentures is backing companies that are seeking to improve existing wireless technology. One of its main investments is in Littlefeet, a San Diego company whose products are designed to extend the reach and improve the sound quality of cellular systems.
"Voice is and will continue to be the killer application of the wireless industry," said Michael Rolnick, general partner of ComVentures. "We're realizing that the national networks don't provide national coverage, leaving a lot of rural areas and small cities off the grid. There's a lot that needs to be done to improve what's out there."
One example of carriers' eagerness to build on what already works was a $100 million joint venture announced last Friday by Sprint PCS and the Virgin Group of Britain. Virgin will use its brand name to sell wireless service in the United States operating on Sprint's network. Virgin will be providing services like entertainment-related text messages, but the emphasis of the venture is on basic voice service.
From the industry's standpoint, a major obstacle to improving wireless services is a shortage of available radio spectrum -- the airwaves that carry the calls and messages. 
"The congestion on Sept. 11 showed how every wireless carrier could have used twice the spectrum they had in lower Manhattan after the attacks," said Ivan Seidenberg, chief executive of Verizon Communications, the parent of Verizon Wireless.
Currently, though, Verizon and many other wireless companies are in a spectrum standoff with the federal government. Last January, the Federal Communications Commission made additional airwave capacity available by auctioning spectrum licenses belonging to the bankrupt NextWave Telecom. But after the industry bid a total of $16 billion for airwaves covered by NextWave's licenses, a federal appeals court ruled that the F.C.C. had no right to seize the licenses. 
A settlement is expected soon, but even the NextWave spectrum would not meet the industry's future needs. Most of the additional airwaves that carriers covet are either in the hands of the military or being held as extra television channels by broadcasters, which can be expected to make wireless carriers pay dearly to use them. 
The capacity constraints pose a problem for cellular companies because the industry has had trouble attracting new subscribers to the wireless world. Unlike Japan and some European countries, in which more than 60 percent of the population uses cellphones, the 109.5 million cellular subscribers in the United States represent only about 39 percent of the population. And while the rate of new sign-ups picked up early this year, lately the rocky economy has discouraged many potential customers, despite reports of a flurry of cellphone buying in the week after Sept. 11.
If the carriers are hoping that consumers' new interest in emergency communications will stimulate demand, the industry is falling short in at least one regard, according to the F.C.C. 
For years, the agency has been pushing for Enhanced 911, or E-911, service as a way to improve the precision of locating people who make emergency calls from cellphones. Current technology enables emergency officials to determine the location of a wireless caller to within approximately 500 feet. With its E-911 initiative, the F.C.C. wants to improve the accuracy to about 150 feet for at least two-thirds of calls and 450 feet for 95 percent of calls.
Under the original timetable, carriers were supposed to have plans in place this month gradually to phase in E-911 the next few years. But many carriers say the more precise systems are too expensive and the F.C.C.'s timetable is unrealistic. 
Last Friday, the F.C.C. said only four carriers, Verizon Wireless, Sprint PCS, Nextel Communications and VoiceStream Communications, had met its preliminary requirements for phasing in E-911 services. The F.C.C. put two other large carriers, Cingular Wireless and AT&T Wireless, under review for disciplinary action for failing to meet the guidelines.
It was not so long ago that industry entrepreneurs were promoting wireless location capabilities as a marvelous marketing tool -- a way for retailers to pinpoint the location of mobile customers, messaging them with special offers on, say, lattes when they strolled by a Starbucks.
Even before Sept. 11, economic concerns were forcing industry executives to think more practically. They were all too aware of the financial woes of large wireless carriers in Europe, which had gone deeply in debt by agreeing last year to spend a combined $150 billion on licenses to provide so-called third-generation, or 3G, services. (The first generation was the original analog-transmission networks of the 1980's and early 90's. The second generation refers to current digital wireless networks.)
Third-generation networks, their supporters say, will usher in high-speed, Internet-inspired services on mobile phones. With 3G services, for example, users could swap digital photographs or download movie trailers on cellphones -- assuming someone would want to do that. Just as important, from a capacity standpoint, 3G networks are supposed to use spectrum more efficiently and increase the speeds with which people can transmit basic data on wireless devices.
But in light of the hammering the global telecommunications industry has taken the last year, the European wireless companies have been trying to find ways to free themselves from some of the license obligations. 
Wireless carriers in the United States were spared some of the Europeans' pain because network ambitions and construction have tended to trail those in Europe. 
Even where American carriers have cautiously proceeded with plans to offer more advanced wireless services, the projects are rather modest. In July, for example, AT&T Wireless, became the nation's first company to offer 2.5G services -- so called because they are a half-step toward true 3G. But so far, it has offered the service only to business customers in Seattle, and the company has declined to say how many have actually signed up. 
In Seattle, AT&T Wireless charges a minimum of $50 a month for 400 voice minutes and one megabyte of data. One megabyte may sound like a lot, but in practice it is a pittance. Without exceeding the one-megabyte allotment, a user of a wireless device could do little more than book some airline reservations, check stock prices or read a few short news articles.
Some customers use the service as a kind of wireless modem, linking their cellphones with a cable to a laptop computer. That provides access to the more sophisticated services that full-blown fast Internet access can provide. But it can also become expensive when incremental data charges are taken into account. 
In Tokyo last week, NTT DoCoMo rolled out what it called the world's first true 3G wireless network. But even in Japan, where wireless phones are much more popular than in the United States, consumers seem to be approaching the pricey service with caution.
Closer to home, the wireless companies' new sobriety is manifesting itself in many ways. Consider the example of Nortel Networks, the big Canadian maker of equipment for wireless networks. 
Before Sept. 11, Nortel, promoting the wireless Internet's potential, was running a TV commercial in the United States, in which an executive delivered a speech dictated to him from an assistant over a video connection on a hand-held computer. (No such technology is commercially available.)
After the terrorist attacks, Nortel dropped the commercial. The company has donated the rest of it TV ad budget for the year, worth about $3.5 million, to the Red Cross.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new AT&T Wireless service, not yet widely available, lets a cellphone operate as a wireless modem, giving Internet access to a laptop computer. (Wes Pope for The New York Times) Chart: "Wireless Landscape"The top wireless phone service providers . . . Verizon: 27.9Cingular: 21.2AT&T Wireless: 16.4Sprint PCS: 11.2Nextel: 7.7Alltel: 6.5VoiceStream: 4.8U.S. Cellular: 3.3Powertel: 1.2Western Wireless: 1.1Qwest: 1.0TeleCorp: 0.8 Chart lists how they rank* in the top three spots in local markets.(Sources: UBS Warburg; Telephia)(pg. C3) Graphs: "Wireless Nation"The number of people who use wireless phones has risen sharply since about 1993... Graph tracks total U.S. wireless subscribers since 1986. ...but still represents a smaller portion of the population than in Japan and many European countries. Graph tracks total U.S. wireless subscribers since 1986.(Source: UBS Warburg)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); WEATHER (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (61%); STARTUPS (61%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RADIO 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



260 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Madison Avenue Rides Wave of PatrioticFervor 

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
A month after the terrorist attacks on the United States, Madison Avenue is wrapping itself in red, white and blue in an outpouring of patriotism not seen in mainstream advertising since World War II.
 Already, though, there are complaints about the inappropriateness of using profound symbols for commercial purposes from critics who are concerned that the trend is more jingoistic than patriotic and more exploitive than altruistic. 
 The flood of patriotic imagery ranges from American flags and tricolored bunting to fireworks and renderings of the Statue of Liberty and Uncle Sam with their sleeves rolled up, ready to fight. The phrase "United we stand" is being seen almost as often as "Clearance sale," and "God bless America" is being heard almost as often as "And now, a word from our sponsor." 
The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon stimulated a revival of patriotic fervor among consumers that was echoed within hours by marketers, advertising agencies and media companies. Flags were unfurled in television commercials and print ads as well as on Web site banners, signs and billboards. Broadcast and cable networks like NBC and MTV began draping their logos and studio windows in stars and stripes as publications from Parade to Premiere added flags to their covers.
The patriotic pitches are coming from companies large (Anheuser-Busch, General Motors, Kmart), small (Manhattan Mini Storage, National Wholesale Liquidators, Top Tomato and Key Food supermarkets) and in-between (Kenneth Cole, Florsheim, Lands' End). Some are not companies at all but organizations and associations like Major League Baseball and Cotton Inc.
One critic, Allen Adamson, managing director for the New York office of Landor Associates, a company that specializes in advising marketers on corporate identity strategies, said, "If this was never part of your message to begin with, now is not the time to latch on."
He added, "In the very short term it is effective, but if everyone is using it, you're not different. You can blend in with a sea of sameness." Landor is part of the Young & Rubicam division of the WPP Group. 
"Optimism for the country is more appropriate than ever, but companies that arbitrarily wrap themselves in the flag run the risk of having it backfire," said Donny Deutsch, chief executive at the Deutsch agency in New York, which works for advertisers like Tommy Hilfiger, Mitsubishi and Snapple.
"If you glom onto patriotism to pull you through, consumers will see through that," he added. "Patriotic bravado 'brought to you by Joe's Leather Outlet' is not going to work." Deutsch is in the Partnership unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"Patriotic appeals are potentially offensive because they can look like overt nationalism," said Simon Williams, chief executive at the Sterling Group, a brand consulting company in New York.
"It's important to keep the nation together," he added, "but 'in-your-face' Americanism is not what we're looking for."
Those presenting patriotic ads acknowledge the criticism and say they are striving to be sensitive.
"It's a very hard line to walk," said Rick Boyko, chief creative officer for the North American operations of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide agency in New York. "Nobody knows if you do it right or not."
The goal, he added, is to "get a message out, a sign of solidarity, and not sell."
Ogilvy has already produced patriotic ads for clients like AT&T Wireless; American Express; Cotton Inc., the association of American cotton growers; and the Miller Brewing division of the Philip Morris Companies. But rather than capitalizing on the nation's new-found patriotism, Mr. Boyko said, "We're holding up a mirror to what we are seeing."
"We were stuck in Las Vegas on Sept. 11," Mr. Boyko said, referring to a group of Ogilvy and Miller executives, "and as we drove across country in two and a half days, we started to see this spontaneous outpouring of signs, held up by people, hanging from roofs, posted in windows." That inspired the agency to create a commercial for Miller with myriad signs expressing sentiments like "America the Beautiful," "Go U.S.A." and "We Are All New Yorkers." Ogilvy is owned by WPP.
The nation's No. 1 auto maker, General Motors, is running a campaign infused with patriotic elements to promote a zero percent financing program. A TV commercial began with an announcer reciting: "The American dream. We refuse to let anyone take it away." A print ad ended with these words: "This may very well be the most serious crisis our nation has ever faced. In this time of terrible adversity, let's stand together. And keep America rolling." Indeed, "Keep America rolling" is the theme of the campaign.
"It's a fine line between calling the program what it is and going too far," said C. J. Fraleigh, executive director for advertising and corporate marketing at General Motors in Detroit. "I think we struck the right balance."
"The auto industry is a major component of the U.S. economy and we're the largest company in the industry," he added. "The size and history of G.M. gives us a legitimate license to talk about our role in the economy. It is appropriate, again, if you don't cross the line."
Mr. Adamson of Landor agreed that the patriotic appeals may work best when, he said, "it is relevant to the core brand idea."
"Major League Baseball has done a terrific job of wrapping itself in the flag," he added, referring to television commercials, "and it works, because baseball's core is American."
Even so, "over a period of time, its relevance diminishes," Mr. Adamson said, "as consumers begin to ask what does it have to do with the brand.
"And that could do damage," he added.
Mr. Boyko at Ogilvy said he did not dispute that "the shelf life for this type of message will probably be short.
"The public wants to get back to normal, but everybody's still looking for answers," he added. "We're in the process of determining what to do in Month 2, 3, 4."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Americans began displaying the flag after Sept. 11 and were quickly followed by advertisers. In Times Square, a flag was draped on the side of a Tkts booth, above, while AT&T Wireless incorporated symbols of both New York City and the nation in a billboard. Companies say they have tried to be tasteful in tapping heady emotions and are merely reflecting the nation's current mood. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); BRANDING (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); BASEBALL (70%); SELF STORAGE (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); COTTON INC (66%); WPP PLC (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (66%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ALLEN ADAMSON (50%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



261 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Corporations seem poised to spend more in a handful of areas but have also become fixated on prompt payoffs.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
GOING into September, senior managers were already less than enthusiastic about big corporate Internet initiatives. Given the tightening economy and the slowness with which many business-to-business e-commerce projects pay for themselves, such efforts were quickly losing ground on corporations' priority lists. 
 Now, in the wake of Sept. 11, senior managers are even more fixated on prompt payoffs from any investments they make. Corporate managers seem poised to spend more on a small handful of areas -- including Internet security, technology recovery systems and telecommuting gear -- and that should mean more business for companies with those specialties. Companies that focus on more basic products -- like e-commerce software -- could face much more difficult times in the coming months, though. 
 "Over all, the pie of B-to-B transactions will shrink, because the attacks have really pushed us over the edge into a recession, which will cause a global recession," said Lauren Shu, a research director with GartnerG2, the business strategy division of the Gartner consulting and research firm. As a result, she said, her firm will probably reduce its 2002 estimates for global e-commerce spending among corporations. (The current estimate is $1.93 trillion.) 
In the short term, Ms. Shu said, companies in the industries most directly affected by the terrorist attacks will scale back their e-commerce spending. "We'll see a trickle-down effect from tourism and financial services," she said, adding that industries like oil, gas, industrial equipment, and textiles will also be affected. 
In addition, she said, if consumer spending decreases in areas like furniture, cars and other big-ticket items, those industries will also have less cash to spend on ambitious e-commerce projects. 
Indeed, the economic repercussions of the attacks continued to spread last week. as companies that supply the beleaguered airline industry began discussing cuts of their own. General Electric Aircraft Engines, for one, announced plans to lay off 4,000 of its 30,000 workers. Rick Kennedy, a spokesman for GE Aircraft Engines, said he did yet not know whether employees devoted to the company's growing e-commerce effort would be included in the layoffs. "But we expect everybody's going to be hit by this," he said. And Russ Mayer, vice president for e-business at GE Aircraft Engines, said spending on new e-commerce projects would be cut by 25 to 30 percent.
Dan Ackman, vice president for e-business at the National Association of Manufacturers, said members of his organization would curtail their e-commerce spending. "My gut is that one-third of the companies will stay with their plans, a third will spend less, and a third will take a wait-and-see approach," Mr. Ackman said 
"That last group will lean toward staying the course," he added. "But one thing that will not change is that C.E.O.'s will continue to only do stuff with high priority." 
That means requiring fast payoffs, said Marc Andreessen, the chairman of Loudcloud, which helps run the Internet operations for companies like Nike and Ford Motor. 
Mr. Andreessen, a co-founder of Netscape who is generally credited with inventing the first Internet browser, sees a new pragmatism among corporate technology customers. "The way to sell a year and a half ago was to talk about getting a return on your investment after 12 months or 18 months," he said. "Nowadays, the arguments have to do with cost reduction in the first month." 
As for Loudcloud's business, Mr. Andreessen said he had not seen any evidence of executives balking since Sept. 11. "But that's probably because we usually get called in to reduce the cost of existing projects, not to start a new project," he said. "A lot of companies have killed their plans for new projects."
In addition to hurting established companies, the post-September economic uncertainty will almost certainly crush the hopes of many newly formed business-to-business Internet companies, Mr. Andreessen added. "Sept. 11 drives an exclamation point over the fact that it's brutally difficult for start-ups to raise funding," he said. 
"For the venture capital community, it's a more intense version of what was happening in the six months prior," he added. "In theory, they have a lot of cash, but in practice, they're still losing their shirts over the investments they'd made." 
Ms. Shu, of Gartner, said perceptions about weak Internet security could, in the short term, lead more companies to use networks that connect businesses over dedicated phone lines, instead of the Internet.
But others anticipate a different outcome, pointing to some of the few areas where they see signs of sustained, or increased, corporate e-commerce spending. Steven D. Berkley, who manages the fixed income index group for Lehman Brothers, is expecting to rely increasingly on encrypted Internet communications, given how critical they were in helping his business rebound in the days after the attacks. 
Mr. Berkley's group was located near the World Trade Center, in offices that remained inaccessible last week. Because the usual dedicated networks could not be re-established immediately after the attacks, his group reached clients via Atabok, a service that sends digitally encrypted files over the Internet. Mr. Berkley said the company's employees also used the Atabok service from their homes, when they telecommuted during the week of Sept. 11. 
Given Lehman's reliance on networking services after the attack, Mr. Berkley said he would push the company to create backup sites with more servers, the computers that form the core of any Internet operation. 
Businesses that market secure Internet communications and those that provide help recovering disabled technology systems have experienced a surge in demand in the last four weeks. Jeff Wyne, vice president for marketing at Atabok, said the company had seen a spike in the number of government agencies that have made inquiries -- even if he is at a loss to explain the sudden government interest. 
"But, in general, it's been a little easier for us to get in the door" of prospective clients, Mr. Wyne said. 
Likewise, Damian Walch, senior vice president for professional services for Comdisco, a disaster recovery company, said that since the attacks, businesses had been interested in devising backup systems to keep their e-commerce operations up and running in the event of a disaster. 
This is actually an ideal time to invest in other e-commerce systems, beyond those for security, analysts and executives said. Vendors of products like e-commerce software had seen demand slow even before last month's events, and companies interested in expanding their e-commerce capabilities are in a good bargaining position -- if, of course, senior managers can stomach the financial risk of engaging in a long-term project.
"It's definitely a buyer's market right now," said Mr. Ackman at the National Association of Manufacturers. "The companies that push ahead have a real opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven D. Berkley of Lehman Brothers expects to rely increasingly on encrypted Internet communications, given how critical they were in reaching customers after Sept. 11. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); LAYOFFS (87%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); TELECOMMUTING (76%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); HIJACKING (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); AIRLINES (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (63%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; COMPUTER SECURITY 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



262 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Global Markets Still Look To New York For Leadership 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON and SUZANNE KAPNER 

 BODY:
The sun rises in the east and sets in the west. New days dawn in Tokyo 14 hours before they reach New York. It is the natural order.
 Not necessarily in the financial markets, though. By the time the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq begin trading each day, the stock markets in Frankfurt and London have been open for hours and those in Tokyo, Sydney and Hong Kong are long closed. 
 When United States investors wake up this morning, they will be able to gauge the reaction of foreign markets to the military strikes on Afghanistan. But in practice, American markets are likely to set their own course, analysts say, and foreign markets can be expected to follow on Tuesday. 
For all practical purposes, the clocks of the world's markets -- with the exception in some ways of those in Japan -- are set to 9:30 a.m. on Wall Street, when the day's trading begins on the New York Stock Exchange. 
"When it comes to the global stock markets, the No. 1 question that people start off with is the U.S. outlook," said Subodh Kumar, chief investment strategist in Toronto with CIBC World Markets. Mr. Kumar said that on a 10-day trip to Europe and the Middle East he made in late September, he found that his clients, even those who invested mostly in local stocks, were mainly interested in talking about the outlook for the United States economy and the American markets.
"It's quite amazing," he said. "Even if people have a domestic portfolio, the extent to which they talk about U.S. statistics, U.S. consumer confidence, etc."
The global investment clock's calibration to American time may have been most evident when the United States stock markets stopped running for four trading days after the attacks on Sept. 11. Despite an initial burst of trading activity in Europe that Tuesday afternoon and in Asia on Wednesday morning, as market participants reacted to the news, volume was not particularly heavy thereafter and through the end of the week.
But the next week, after the opening bell rang again at the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, Sept. 17, trading volume soared in Europe and Asia. Stock exchanges in London, Frankfurt and Hong Kong recorded some of their busiest days ever, paralleling the activity in New York. And as stock prices plummeted in the United States, shares in the overseas markets followed.
There are both financial and economic reasons that American stock markets dominate the attention of traders everywhere, analysts say. To begin with, the United States is the world's largest economy, accounting for almost 30 percent of gross global output.
What is more, for the last decade the United States has grown faster than Japan or Europe. Stock investors obviously prefer expanding companies and growing economies, so the United States markets are disproportionately large, even considering the size of the economy. The New York Stock Exchange is the largest share market in the world, and the Nasdaq is second.
Together, they had a market value of almost $13 trillion as of Sept. 1, accounting for about half the total value of stocks worldwide, according to most recently compiled data from the Big Board. A single company, General Electric, with a market value then of $375 billion, represented more than 1 percent of the world's market capitalization.
The influence of the United States markets is magnified by the American influence on global economic growth over the last decade. In 2000, for example, the United States imported $280 billion in goods from East Asia, excluding Japan, accounting for 11 percent of the region's economic output, said Andy Xie, chief economist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong.
"The region has been called a leveraged play on U.S. growth," Mr. Xie said. East Asia, in other words, swings up and down with the United States economy, except that Asia's swings are generally wider. Semiconductor makers like Samsung Electronics in South Korea and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, he said, "are bellwether stocks here and trade against U.S. comparables such as Intel."
And even foreign companies that do business mainly in their home markets, like banks, are considered vulnerable to an American economic slowdown, because slower growth in the United States can provoke a slowdown worldwide. "Export drives domestic demand in most cases," Mr. Xie said.
In addition to the influence of the American economy, there is another, more direct connection between United States stock markets and the action elsewhere. Shares of many of the most important companies in other countries are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in addition to their home markets. On an average day, for instance, more shares of Nortel Networks, a Canadian company that makes communications equipment, trade in New York than in Toronto.
Companies choose to list on the Big Board for both practical and symbolic reasons. Gaining a listing in New York provides access to the deepest pool of investment capital in the world. And being allowed to list in the United States shows that a foreign company has met American standards for financial disclosure, usually considered the toughest public accountability standards in the world.
The cross-listings have the effect of binding foreign markets even more closely to their United States counterparts. The Sao Paulo Stock Exchange in Brazil opens half an hour before the New York Stock Exchange, but little trading occurs until the Big Board's opening bell, said Aloisio Villeth Lemos of Lopes Filho & Associados, a investment consulting firm in Rio de Janeiro. Some stocks, like Petrobras, the Brazilian oil company, trade almost exclusively on the Big Board.
The situation has similar aspects in Europe. "The relationship between the United States and Europe is the relationship between a mother and a child," said Michael Hartnett, director of European equity strategy for Merrill Lynch in London.
Mr. Hartnett said the relationship between European and American markets grew stronger in recent years, as mutual fund managers invested money by industry rather than by region. The leading companies in a certain industry will determine how the industry performs relative to the rest of the market, and those leaders are often American companies, Mr. Hartnett said.
"The performance of United States technology companies affects European technology companies," he said. "It doesn't really work vice versa."
Other nations' stock markets have a more limited impact, traders and hedge fund managers said. In financial crises, the importance of Japan increases because it is a large exporter of capital. The big semiconductor equipment manufacturers of South Korea and Taiwan can provide clues to the health of the global economy.
But economic and corporate data from the United States have a much bigger effect, they said.
Typically, three-quarters of the daily volume on the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index, the benchmark for the London Stock Exchange, is traded in the afternoon in London, after the Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange have opened.
The lack of a single big stock market that spans European borders compounds Europe's competitive disadvantage, making it harder for companies to raise capital and expand their shareholder base across the Continent.
"It's an embarrassment that European fund managers can't seem to find a direction to the market without looking to the United States," said Leonard Geiger, who trades European stocks in London for U.S. Trust. "But the U.S. exerts so much power; to ignore it is like swimming upstream."
Japan does provide a limited exception to the rule of American dominance, said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. "There are times when the U.S. is very important, times when it's not," he said. 
For much of the last decade, Japan's economy has stagnated even as the United States' has grown, so Japanese investors are more focused on domestic problems than on the international outlook. In addition, the Tokyo stock market, with a value equivalent to $2.6 trillion as of Sept. 1, was about as big as the Nasdaq. Tokyo's size has given it more power to move independently of American markets.
Still, the United States and Japan are closely tied economically, and traders in Tokyo often look to the previous day's action in New York for direction, Mr. Feldman said.
To that extent, the sun never sets on Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Digram: "Somewhere, a Market Is (Almost) Always Open"Stock markets, which represent trillions of dollars in capital, have become so interconnected that when one major market stumbles, all the others usually end up bruised. And when something goes wrong in one market, it often sends waves around the world, swamping each market as it opens. MARKET CAPITALIZATION OF TOP STOCK MARKETS IN TRILLIONS, AS OF END OF AUGUST New York Stock Exchange: $10.90Tokyo: 2.64Nasdaq: 2.56London: 2.20Euronext: 1.90Deutsche Borse: 1.10Toronto: 0.62Switzerland: 0.62Italy: 0.58Hong Kong: 0.50Madrid: 0.47Australia: 0.37Stockholm: 0.27Taiwan: 0.22Johannesburg: 0.18 Diagram of a clock shows different times of day for select cities around the world. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



263 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Small Loans Help Millions of World's Poorest, Coalition Says 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
An inter national coalition of microlending agencies devoted to financing homespun businesses from the inner city of Chicago to mountain villages in Chiapas -- plans to announce on Monday that it has made significant strides toward its goals of helping the world's poorest families.
 The group, the Microcredit Summit Campaign, has brought together about 600 experts in microcredit campaigns from throughout Latin America for a meeting in Puebla, beginning on Monday. 
 It will report that since it began an effort in 1997 to reach 100 million of the world's poorest families by 2005, it has reached about 19.3 million families. Meeting organizers, who also have pledged to help empower women, said loans to the world's poorest people were increasing by 37 percent a year. 
Microcredit programs make loans for as little as $40 to help poor people with no credit history start businesses. The programs are aimed mostly at lifting up impoverished areas of the third world. A total of 13.8 million people have been granted loans in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. But microloans are also made available in urban areas of the United States.
President Vicente Fox of Mexico, who is scheduled to speak at the meeting, had promised to make microfinancing a pillar of his government's antipoverty strategy. But in the 10 months since Mr. Fox took office, his programs have become mired in bureaucratic missteps and stalled by an economic recession.
Queen Sophia of Spain and Muhammad Yunus, the Bangladeshi president of Grameen Bank, who gave out the first microloans in the mid-1970's, are also scheduled to be at the meeting. Grameen, known as the poor man's bank, helps coordinate microcredit investments for individual and institutional investors.
The World Bank has estimated that 1.2 million people around the world live on less than $1 a day, 75 percent of them women.
For years, microlending agencies have been criticized for overlooking the world's poorest people in favor of clients who have at least some business experience and basic financial background. Other microlenders have worried that the poorest people exclude themselves because they believe they are unqualified.
"Too often, the standard in the field is to give loans to people who already have businesses," said Sam Daley-Harris, the director of the Microcredit Summit. "Well, those are not the poorest people."
He added: "Many programs in the world are good at reaching people who already show some financial performance. But they are not strong at reaching further down."
Mr. Daley-Harris said there was little more than anecdotal evidence to indicate the effect microloans had had at lifting people out of poverty. But two recent studies showed that microcredit clients in Mali and Honduras were more likely than nonclients to have larger businesses; to see an increase in personal income and food consumption; to have personal savings; and to feel a greater sense of self-esteem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); RECESSION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: GRAMEEN BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROCREDIT SUMMIT CAMPAIGN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%) THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); ASIA (79%); MALI (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



264 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Near His Kibbutz, an Israeli Stops a Bomber and Is Killed 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: KIBBUTZ SHLUCHOT, Israel, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Shortly after 8 o'clock this morning, the first suicide bomber to strike in Israel during the current cease-fire turned down a narrow lane that leads to this kibbutz, and, passing rows of date palms at his left, began walking toward the entrance.
 The gate was open, as it always is in daylight hours, and no guard stood beside it. Inside, parents were dropping off their children at the day care center and other kibbutzniks were sitting down to their communal breakfast. 
 Driving back from work to join his family for breakfast, Yair Mordechai stopped his white Mazda and climbed out to talk to the stranger. That was when the young man blew himself to pieces, killing Mr. Mordechai, crushing his car and shattering the windows of a silver Toyota that had just passed the two men. 
No one can know for sure why Mr. Mordechai, the 44-year-old father of five, got out of his car, but his fellow kibbutzniks, who considered him family and mourned him bitterly today, said they knew the reason. "It makes sense that he saw something suspicious and he stopped someone," said Devora Liss, who went to high school in Prospect Park, Brooklyn, with Mr. Mordechai's wife, Iria. "He wouldn't think of himself."
She said she thought "he saved the kibbutz from something even worse." From now on, residents said, the kibbutz gate would be closed at all times.
The attacks on the United States on Sept. 11 created an opening for peace here. Under pressure from the United States, Israelis and the Palestinians arrived at a cease-fire a week later, and the militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad indicated that they would halt suicide attacks against civilians within Israel. But they imposed a condition: the attacks would resume if the Israelis started making incursions into Palestinian territory. 
Despite the cease-fire, the violence barely paused. The Palestinians accused the Israelis of not withdrawing their troops and tanks from Palestinian-controlled territory, and the Israelis accused the Palestinians of not providing the security that would make such withdrawals possible. In reprisal for past attacks and to prevent future ones, the Israelis resumed attacking some Palestinian-controlled areas in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Today, a Palestinian was shot dead and three were injured in the West Bank city of Hebron, where Israeli troops attacked two neighborhoods on Friday in hopes of stopping sniper attacks. Palestinians blamed Israeli troops for today's shooting, while Israel said it was part of an internal Palestinian dispute, The Associated Press reported. Israeli troops continued to hold their positions today in areas of Hebron that by previous agreement are Palestinian-controlled.
Palestinian security forces insisted that they were complying with the terms of the truce by arresting some Palestinian militants sought by Israel. But one high-ranking Israeli official said today that too many dangerous militants remained at large.
The Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the attack here, in a statement faxed to the Agence France-Presse in Beirut. The group identified the bomber as an 18-year-old Palestinian, Ahmad Abdel Muneim Draghma.
Kibbutz Shluchot, in the arid Beit Shean valley of northern Israel, is a collection of pale yellow homes covered by red tile roofs and linked by asphalt walking paths. It was the first kibbutz established after Israel's founding, in 1948, and is now home to about 120 families of Orthodox Jews.
Until recently, this was considered a safe area. Indeed, two years ago, the Israeli security forces took back guns that had been issued to the kibbutz. "They said we were going to have peace, a new peace here," said Chaim Pearlstein, 50, who considered Mr. Mordechai his best friend and identified his body today. "A new Middle East." 
But lately this area has grown dangerous. Late this summer, a teenage Israeli girl was shot and killed in the Gilboa Mountains, which loom over this kibbutz. In recent weeks, three people were killed in two drive-by shootings in this area.
Mr. Pearlstein said he suspected that new Israeli security measures west of here, on the far side of Palestinian-controlled territory, were having the unintended effect of routing violence in this direction.
His neighbors said that Mr. Mordechai was recently made a captain in the reserves and that he worked as a manager in a nearby date-packaging plant. Residents of the kibbutz contribute their income to the collective and receive an annual salary that increases with every child they have. Housing and bills like electricity and water are paid for communally.
"It's all family," said Niki Weiss, 48. Mrs. Weiss was trying to get the guest quarters ready for Mr. Mordechai's family, and she was calling on her neighbors. "I made three phone calls, and I had 10 or 15 people here," she said.
The kibbutzniks eat breakfast and lunch together, but the families dine on their own. But Mr. Mordechai was constantly inviting others into his home. "He just said to me the other day, 'People don't invite each other over enough here,' " Mrs. Liss said.
Many kibbutzes are now struggling to survive economically and to retain their original ethic of shared sacrifice. This one, like others, has taken to using some outside workers -- Israeli Arabs -- to tend its fields. Kibbutz Shluchot has turkey sheds, a dairy farm, carrot fields and date groves, but it has recently diversified, setting up a factory to make computerized signs and other high-tech equipment.
This afternoon, as the sun dipped toward the mountains, hundreds gathered under the date palms outside the kibbutz synagogue for a service for Mr. Mordechai. The Orthodox do not usually bury their dead in coffins, but because of the destruction caused by the bomb, the mourners today gathered around a plain pine box.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The coffin of Yair Mordechai, who was killed by a suicide bomber. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times); An Israeli official collected evidence yesterday around the site where a Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up, killing an Israeli man who stopped to talk to him near the entrance to Kibbutz Shluchot, in northern Israel. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); ARMED FORCES (85%); TEEN SUICIDE (78%); HAMAS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RELIGION (50%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; PALESTINIANS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS 

PERSON: MORDECHAI, YAIR; BENNET, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



265 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Labor Protest Gets Results 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: ATLIXCO, Mexico, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
At the time, it seemed an insignificant act of disobedience. About 900 workers at Mexmode, which produces sweatshirts for colleges in the United States, boycotted the company cafeteria because they were fed up with finding worms in their salads.
 But their defiance set off a combustible chain of protests that led to negotiations from the wealthiest corners of the first world to the most impoverished depths of the third. 
 Marcela Munoz, 23, a seamstress turned labor leader, still seems amazed by all the attention. "Eyes around the world have been focused on us," she said. 
Mexmode -- an assembly factory, or maquiladora -- is a principal supplier of college sweatshirts to Nike and Reebok. Hearing that Mexmode workers were fired for their cafeteria boycott, leaders of an activist coalition supported by students and administrators from about 85 American colleges and universities rushed here to investigate.
The group, the Workers Rights Consortium, heard complaints about low wages, verbal abuse and corruption among union officials, then began a high-profile campaign that threatened the image of the Nike swoosh.
Nike, the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing manufacturer, had already come under fire for similar conditions at Asian plants. Nike officials pressed Mexmode managers to abide by corporate codes of conduct that guarantee fair conditions for workers.
As a result, workers at Mexmode, most of them single mothers in their 20's with elementary school educations and no prior work experience, have received two raises this year. The cafeteria food now seems safe for human consumption. Some employees even say it tastes good.
Child laborers have been removed from production lines. The 450 seamstresses and machine operators at Mexmode recently won the right to kick out corrupt labor leaders and form their own union.
The actions at Mexmode invigorated the American anti-sweatshop movement. Labor experts argue that the changes here prove that corporate codes of conduct can reach across borders to protect workers' rights in regions of the world where labor laws are weak or poorly enforced.
"This fight showed that globalization has another face," said Huberto Juarez Nunez, a labor expert at the Autonomous University of Puebla. "Companies are going to be required to do more than abide by weak regional laws. Their codes of conduct must set global standards that treat workers as world citizens and guarantee them certain levels of dignity and respect."
The changes won in this scenic city filled with colonial churches some 70 miles southeast of Mexico City, a center of the textile industry since the 1930's, have also provided help for Mexico's fledgling independent labor movement.
With an explosion in the number of foreign-owned assembly plants since the North American Free Trade Agreement went into effect seven years ago, labor organizers hope the movement at Mexmode will inspire workers in 3,400 foreign-owned assembly plants across the country to fight against poverty wages and unsafe workplaces.
The fight will be a tough one. In recent months, in a tough economy, open acts of intimidation by government-controlled unions have shut down campaigns by independent unions and raised concerns about President Vicente Fox's commitment to labor reforms.
As the first opposition politician to win the presidency in more than seven decades, Mr. Fox promised to promote workers' rights and to dismantle labor organizations that had operated hand in glove with the former governing party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party. 
Critics charge that Mr. Fox has so far forged alliances with traditional union leaders and turned a blind eye to their corruption.
Under the former governing party, unions operated as pillars of the political machine, looking out for the interests of the employers. Workers were forced to belong, were rarely included in negotiations with management and never received a clear accounting of how their dues were spent.
Talking over plates of enchiladas and lemonade, Mexmode workers, who still earn $4.50 to $5 a day, said that conditions had improved but that they did not make enough money to support their children, and so they were forced to rely on their parents. Most of their men, they said, migrate to the United States.
"How can a man support his family on $5 a day?" asked Josefina Hernandez Ponce.
During a tour of the $25 million factory, which can produce 500,000 sweatshirts a month, Hoon Park, the general manager, pointed out that workers got free breakfast and lunch, birthday cake and performance awards.
Ms. Munoz was one of the workers fired after the cafeteria boycott. When workers turned to their former union leaders for help, Ms. Munoz said, they were ignored.
Officials of that union, the Revolutionary Confederation of Workers and Peasants, did not respond to several telephone requests for interviews.
In early January, Mexmode workers walked off their jobs and staged a sit-in. Police officers forcibly removed workers from the plant, and managers refused to let protest leaders return to work.
In response, leaders of the United Students Against Sweatshops staged their own protests outside Nike stores and offices across the United States. Officials from the Workers Rights Consortium and from Nike conducted separate investigations of conditions at Mexmode.
"The burning question on U.S. campuses has been whether colleges and universities can really make a difference in the conditions in overseas factories," said Scott Nova, the executive director of the Washington-based consortium. "Now we know the answer is yes."
Sportswear companies including Nike and Reebok have come under fire from the anti-sweatshop movement for conditions in the factories across Asia as well. And mirroring the workers' triumph here in Mexico, a new semi-independent trade union in a tennis shoe factory in China has won new rights for its workers.
The cross-border campaign prompted Nike to press managers at Mexmode to reinstate the ousted workers, to create a formal grievance process, to address complaints of harassment by its managers and to improve cafeteria conditions.
A Nike spokesman, Vada Manager, said the company takes seriously its power to make sure that its suppliers adhere to fair labor practices. He said some 50 employees at Nike were assigned to monitor compliance with the corporate codes of conduct.
"We remain vigilant about these issues," Mr. Manager said. "We have learned a lot" at Mexmode, he added, "that will allow us to apply new monitoring rules at other factories."
Two weeks ago, after Mexmode managers revoked the former union's collective bargaining agreement, workers were granted the right to form an independent union. Membership is voluntary. Yet leaders of the new union said they have already signed up 80 percent of the plant's workers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of workers at the Mexmode factory in Atlixco. Changes won there, including the ouster of a government-controlled union, give encouragement to Mexico's fledgling independent labor movement.; Blanca Velasquez, left, is a labor organizer in Mexico. Hoon Park, right, is the general manager of the Mexmode factory in Atlixco. (Photographs by Laura Cano for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Atlixco: Atlixco has been a center of the textile industry since the 1930's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); ETHICS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (73%); CHILD LABOR (73%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FOOTWEAR MFG (70%); APPAREL MFG (70%); TEXTILES (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) APPAREL; LABOR; SWEATSHOPS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: MEXMODE (CO); WORKERS RIGHTS CONSORTIUM 

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (95%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (95%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%)

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



266 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: A Mass of Newly Laid-Off Workers Will Put Social Safety Net to the Test 

BYLINE:  By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
At the Beverly Hilton, 200 workers have lost their jobs and nearly 250 have been dismissed from the sparkling towers of the Westin Bonaventure. A Las Vegas casino company, Mandalay Resorts, will cut its work force by more than 4,000.
 The airline industry says 100,000 people will lose their jobs. Among hotel and restaurant workers, industry leaders say, the number of people with lost jobs or sharply reduced hours could reach a million. 
 In their suddenness and severity, the layoffs that followed the Sept. 11 attacks have shocked the economy. They will pose a significant new test of a revamped social safety net. The mass of newly unemployed workers will encounter a welfare system that was overhauled in 1996 and has never faced a recession. A system that moved from federal control to a patchwork of state programs has, until now, been shielded by prosperity and low unemployment. 
About 2.5 million adults have left the welfare rolls in recent years, lured by good times and pushed by tough laws. Maids, waitresses, cooks and clerks, most hold the kind of low-skilled jobs that quickly disappear when businesses tighten their belts. Many work in the very industries -- travel and tourism -- devastated by the terrorist attacks.
That was the message conveyed recently by Barry Sternlicht, head of Starwood Resorts & Hotels, as he discussed his company's 15,000 layoffs. "We're talking about hourly people," Mr. Sternlicht said. "People who have made the welfare-to-work leap and are really not equipped to take this kind of layoff." 
In the past, the ability of these people to return to welfare was virtually assured, and federal financing automatically grew to meet demand. Now federal financing is fixed, recipients face time limits and work rules, and states have wide discretion in deciding whom to help.
Critics of the new welfare system have often warned that it would fail in a faltering economy. Faced with falling revenues and fixed federal money, they say, states will cut aid just when the poor need it most.
"It's going to be hard for administrators to go to their legislatures and ask for more money," said Mark Greenberg of the Center on Law and Social Policy, a Washington advocacy group. "They may be fearful about letting people back on the rolls." 
But others argue the safety net is stronger than the one it replaced. Many more job-seekers have recent resumes. They also have expanded access to child care and transportation. State bureaucracies have gotten better at helping the poor find work.
"Every state does a better job than it used to of getting people into jobs," said Jason A. Turner, the welfare commissioner in New York City. "The overall safety net functions better and provides higher levels of income than it did before."
As former welfare recipients lose their jobs, a big unknown is how many will qualify for unemployment insurance. In the past, most failed to work long enough or earn enough to qualify. In Nevada, for instance, a jobless person has to earn $5,600 in a three-month period to qualify for the average unemployment benefit. That is more than twice what a woman leaving welfare typically earns.
In the past, Mr. Greenberg said, only 10 to 15 percent of former welfare recipients were able to meet state thresholds like these. Since more people have recent work experience now, those percentages are expected to rise.
Even so, "no more than a third will get on unemployment insurance," said Harry Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University.
In Denver, Sonja Gonzalez, 22, just started working at United Airlines early this year. Now laid off without welfare or unemployment aid, she said, "I need to find a job fast."
In theory, if some people return to welfare, states should have the money to help them. States still get the same amount of federal welfare money as they did six years ago -- $16.5 billion a year -- though they serve fewer than half as many clients. 
But with creative accounting, states have used some of the windfall on tax cuts, roads and prisons. They have also used it to finance new services for the poor, including housing, car loans and mental health programs. The largest amounts have gone for child care. A decade ago, for instance, Michigan, spent $20 million a year on child care subsidies. Now it spends $500 million. 
As the economy slowed before the attacks, a notable trend was already taking shape. Though unemployment was rising, the welfare rolls continued to fall, in some places sharply. In Illinois the unemployment rate grew nearly a percentage point. But the welfare rolls fell 30 percent. Florida had already cut its rolls 74 percent. But as unemployment grew there, the rolls fell 5 percent more. Pennsylvania followed the trend: unemployment up, welfare down. 
Critics say numbers like these show the system no longer responds to rising need. "It's been so hostile to clients for so many years, people aren't going there," says Charles Sheketoff of the Oregon Center for Public Policy, an advocacy group. As a truer gauge of economic need, Mr. Sheketoff points to food stamps, whose costs are fully paid by the federal government. While Oregon kept its cash welfare rolls flat, food stamps rose 34 percent.
But state officials offer a different explanation. Until recently, they note, most layoffs involved industries that employ few welfare recipients, like manufacturing and technology. Entry-level jobs by and large remained plentiful, especially among women. "Our clients are still getting jobs," said Karan Maxson, who runs the Illinois welfare program. Plus, officials say, the rise in food stamps is not a surprise: that program typically reacts faster to economic trends.
Not every state with growing unemployment followed the roll-cutting trend. In Nevada, the caseload has grown 34 percent since reaching a trough last year. 
Some people worry that time limits have weakened the safety net. The economy is failing just as the first welfare families are reaching a five-year lifetime limit on aid. Some states set shorter limits that have already expired. But because few families have continuously stayed on the rolls, a small minority risk being cut off soon. All states can grant some exceptions. Nationwide, of those who have already left the rolls, more than 90 percent are thought to have time left on the clock.
What does seem clear is that few who left the welfare system seem eager to go back. Lou Ann Cataneo of New York, a self-described "poster child for the welfare-to-work movement," spent a decade living on welfare, using drugs and running from a violent boyfriend. 
After becoming sober, she joined a training program run by Marriott and became a concierge at the Marriott Financial Center near the World Trade Center. In August, she traveled to Washington to tell the Brookings Institution, a policy group, the new welfare laws worked well.
Now, the hotel where Ms. Cataneo worked is damaged and closed. Ms. Cataneo is filing for unemployment benefits and hoping that Marriott will find her another job. If not, she says, the welfare office will be the last place she will return. "I'm always on my soapbox telling people it's not like it used to be: you can't stay on welfare for a generation," she said. "I'll work in McDonald's. It wouldn't be the first time I said, 'Do you want fries with that?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sonja Gonzalez of Denver, left, with her daughter, Deisha, was recently laid off by United Airlines and has no unemployment aid. Lou Ann Cataneo, right, a former welfare recipient, worked at the Marriott Financial Center in Lower Manhattan, which is now damaged and closed. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times); (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); DISMISSALS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CASINOS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESORTS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LODGING (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); AIRLINES (57%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; WELFARE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (58%)

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



267 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE HUNT; 
To Pin Down Terrorists, Gnats, Spies And Predators

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
The United States has been scouring Afghanistan for weeks, looking for military targets and members of Al Qaeda network, using pilotless planes and spy satellites, seeking intelligence from foreign services and a handful of special-operations forces.
 The precise coordinates of the military structures attacked today were mapped during the last three weeks by spy satellites and small pilotless planes, or drones, called Gnat and Predator, according to United States officials and intelligence experts. Those coordinates were programmed into the missiles that struck Kabul, Kandahar and Jalalabad today. 
 The Gnat, operated by the Central Intelligence Agency, is a 24-foot-long plane carrying a radar called the Lynx. The manufacturer, General Atomics, and intelligence analysts say the commercially available radar can detect objects as small as 4 inches at a distance of 16 miles, day or night, rain or shine, relaying still photos or videos via satellite. 
The Gnat's presence over Afghanistan became public when one of the planes crashed on Sept. 22 about 150 miles northwest of Kabul. Taliban commanders said their troops shot it down, but that is extremely unlikely, officials said. The Gnat flies, quietly, at an altitude of four to five miles; the best missiles the Taliban are believed to possess fly no higher than three miles. It can stay aloft for 48 hours without refueling. 
The Predator, operated by the Air Force, flies about as high and can stay aloft for 40 hours at a time. Seven exist; two were lost over Iraq in the last month. It, too, can carry the Lynx.
The initial wave of bombing today showed that buildings and airfields are relatively easy to hit. But trying to find fugitives hiding in Afghanistan is like conducting a manhunt on the moon.
The new technology can track small bands of armed men on foot or in vehicles and relay their location to fighter pilots, missile crews and special-operations forces. But finding members of Al Qaeda sheltering in caves, deep defiles and well-fortified underground bunkers is a tougher task. The surveillance craft cannot see through walls or into a mountain.
In days to come, according to United States officials, special-operations forces are likely to re-enter Afghanistan. They can form a triangle with a plane like the Gnat and missile crews, using a hand-held laser pointer to direct an attack on a moving target.
For months, the Pentagon and the C.I.A. have sought fresh intelligence on hideouts used by Al Qaeda and the Taliban's military leadership from Afghanistan's neighbors, especially Pakistan and Uzbekistan. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that they would continue to "use overt as well as covert activities to improve target information, to gather intelligence that will enable us to be more precise in what we do."
Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the head of the United States Central Command, which covers the Middle East and South Asia, said recently that "intelligence information is shared on a continual basis" between the United States and Uzbekistan, where United States troops are now based, "against this terrorist threat."
Pakistan's intelligence service, closely allied with the Taliban in recent years, and with the C.I.A. during the cold war, is a crucial if sometimes unsteady source of information for American officers.
The military has also stepped up efforts to pinpoint the locations of Al Qaeda and Taliban forces by listening to every form of telecommunications -- satellite phones, cellphones, even walkie-talkies -- using an airborne listening post, the RC-135 "Rivet Joint" aircraft, over Afghanistan. It has also sent small units of special-operations commandos into Afghanistan for in-and-out reconnaissance missions in recent days.
Some of the camps Mr. bin Laden and his allies in Afghanistan have used have been photographed by American reconnaissance satellites repeatedly during the last three years. One cluster of camps was destroyed by American cruise missiles in August 1998.
Those camps are in steep mountains in Paktia Province, near the Afghan border with Pakistan. They were used by Afghan resistance fighters and their leaders during their nine-year-long, American-backed war against the Soviet military, which occupied Afghanistan from December 1979 to February 1989. During that war, Mr. bin Laden provided heavy construction equipment and the United States provided an estimated $3 billion in covert military assistance to the Afghans. 
Thousands of Afghan resistance fighters used the camps, which contemporary Soviet military accounts described as "the last word in NATO engineering techniques." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); ESPIONAGE (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); MISSING PERSONS (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SATELLITES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ATOMICS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); US AIR FORCE (54%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS926110 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (56%); SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (56%)

PERSON: WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



268 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Financing the Fight Against Terrorism 

BYLINE:  By Laura D. Tyson; Laura D. Tyson, former chief economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, is dean of the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Now that the United States has begun its military campaign against the Taliban in Afghanistan, we have to face the question of how to pay for what promises to be a prolonged war on terrorism. Just days before Sept. 11, President Bush said that only a recession or a war could make him willing to spend the Social Security surplus. Now the nation confronts both difficulties.
 The federal government has already approved an additional $55 billion in spending -- $40 billion of emergency appropriations to aid in recovery and rebuilding from the attacks, and $15 billion to support the reeling airline industry. Congressional appropriators have proposed another $25 billion for defense, education and emergencies for the 2002 budget year. Meanwhile, Washington is considering proposals for additional tax cuts, many of them permanent, costly and ineffectual, ostensibly to head off a recession. At the same time, a multiyear, multifaceted war on terrorism will impose substantial new costs. 
 How will the federal government pay for additional tax breaks or spending increases to stimulate the economy, and how will it finance a broad and effective war on terrorism?
In the short run, there is only one choice: funds pledged to Medicare and Social Security will have to be used. Because of the tax cuts passed last spring, nothing else remains in the government's coffers. And even with optimistic assumptions, the same will be true for the next 10 years.
There's nothing wrong with a temporary raid on the Medicare and Social Security surpluses now. Indeed, isolating them to save for the future is a bad idea when the economy is sinking. And dipping into them is justifiable to pay for military efforts, intelligence gathering, enhanced air travel security and safeguards at embassies in waging the war on terrorism.
In fact, since the erosion of consumer and investor confidence is the most pressing threat to the economy right now, additional government spending to fight terrorism is the most effective form of fiscal stimulus -- far more effective than cuts in the capital gains tax or the corporate income tax, which would do nothing at all to bolster investment spending next year. Regardless of its final size and composition, however, an immediate stimulus package must not undermine the nation's hard-won commitment to fiscal responsibility. It is important that Congress and the president not lose sight of the nation's long-run needs. 
In time, the economy will recover, and the case for borrowing from Medicare and Social Security to finance stimulus measures will disappear. But the costs of the war are likely to last for years, and they will be high. Victory will require additional spending not just on defense and intelligence, but also to fight poverty, ignorance and disease in poorer nations that have become training grounds for terrorists. Self-interest, as much as compassion, should motivate the United States to make these kinds of investments around the world.
Like wars with more conventional and identifiable enemies and more limited objectives, our war on terrorism will require unavoidable budgetary tradeoffs. Guns versus butter is elementary economics: a society that chooses to spend more of its resources on defense and security will have less available for things like education, health, retirement security, productive investment and personal consumption. If the tax breaks passed last spring are not rolled back, paying for a strong assault on terrorism will require either cuts in other parts of the federal budget or a return to deficit spending -- as soon as next year, according to recent forecasts.
And if we choose the former route -- financing the war with cuts in government programs -- Social Security and Medicare will have to bear the brunt, since there is nothing left to trim in other parts of the budget. The federal government has been skimping for years on everything from airport security to public health to education.
Slicing into the Medicare and Social Security surpluses now will only make the day of reckoning, when the baby boomers begin to retire, more painful. The government will then be forced to choose between higher payroll taxes, reduced retirement benefits and escalating budget deficits. In the meantime, concerns about the government's need to borrow more in the future will keep long-term interest rates high and depress growth.
Fortunately, the country has a sounder economic option for financing an all-out fight against global terrorism. The Bush tax cuts -- programmed for the future and under realistic projections likely to cost about $1.8 trillion -- should be repealed. They were never justifiable on economic grounds. Now they have become just another luxury item for the wealthy that a country at war can no longer afford. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TALIBAN (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); AVIATION SECURITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); AIRLINES (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); CORPORATE TAX (61%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) TERRORISM; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MISSING PERSONS; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) NEW YORK CITY; AFGHANISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



269 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2039 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Disagreements on Campaign Tactics and Rebuilding 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from the debate yesterday between the Democratic mayoral candidates, Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Gabe Pressman.

Q. Comptroller Alan Hevesi has estimated the cost of rebuilding New York in the wake of the World Trade Center disaster at $105 billion. Hevesi said, "We took the hit for America." Where do you think New York will be able to get that kind of money, Mr. Green?

MARK GREEN -- Well, half of it will come from liability insurance. We have to have a plan in place to go to Washington to get at least $40 billion in money unencumbered by red tape and strings. Second, we need a state-city/ public-private redevelopment authority to do for us now what the emergency financial control board had to do in the fiscal crisis of the 70's: gather all the money and have the most creative ideas to make downtown Manhattan a federal enterprise zone. And third, we need a plan for safety to secure our people in this post-terrorist era. Within a week, Gabe, of the attack I laid out plans on rebuilding the economy, safety and federal government.

Q. On the question of where we get the money, Mr. Ferrer?

FERNANDO FERRER -- Well, a lot of it will come from the globalization of insurance. Those insurance proceeds will come back to the owners of those buildings for the purpose of redevelopment. We'll get some money from the federal government. I agree with Mark, we need much, much more. We did take it on the chin for the rest of America. And I think the nation and the region really owes us some higher level of assistance. We also need to have a rational building plan to build immediately; 100,000 jobs are at risk today, and if we don't build immediately and offer them space immediately, they're making decisions now that may cause them never to come back to lower Manhattan or New York City at all.

Q. Mr. Green has criticized you for saying that it wouldn't be a bad idea to put some of the businesses outside of lower Manhattan while the clearing out goes on. What do you say to that? Is it bad to penalize Wall Street for what happened?

MR. FERRER -- This isn't a penalization of Wall Street. The fact is that by Mayor Giuliani's own estimates the reclamation of the site will take at least a year. For example, it will take up to three years to clear up and to repair the PATH tunnel that came in right under the Trade Center. But more importantly, if we don't act now to reclaim and rebuild office space for businesses that are at risk of leaving and making decisions today -- The New York Times this morning pointed out that real estate companies and businesses are making decisions now about dispersing their employees. We've got to keep them in New York City.

MR. GREEN -- Gabe, The New York Times and The Daily News rightly condemned the borough president for not understanding how markets work and not understanding that when the planes hit the twin towers there was collateral damage in Queens: 50,000 air transport jobs. A waitress in the Bronx doesn't have work because restaurants on Broadway are being closed. It is really wrong and naive to imply and say that we have to disperse the communications and financial services industry, Mr. Borough President said twice, Sept. 20 and 30, out to the other boroughs. Julie's is on 47th Street, electronics is in the Hub, tires are in Akron. Financial services was concentrated there, it's 5 percent of the work force but 20 percent of the revenue to the city. That's the money that pays for smaller class size and more schools in Queens, which are so overcrowded. I think that is an ill-conceived suggestion. They attacked there; that's where we have to rebuild, not because of downtown Manhattan but to help and rescue the whole city.

MR. FERRER -- Well there's a couple of simple facts here. You know, we live in the 21st century, the communications age.

MR. GREEN -- That's true.

MR. FERRER -- Forgive me, I'd like to finish, Mark. We live in the 21st century. Brokers no longer walk across the street with confirmation slips. And that's just a fact of life. We have to live in the real world. Businesses today . . . are already making decisions to disperse. Now if we're going to respond to immediate real-life needs we're going to have to build where we can until we can start erecting office buildings on that 17-acre site that's owned by the Port Authority.

Q. Today's Times reports that if we have a mayor, Mr. Green says, that doesn't appreciate that a big crisis requires big ideas and a nonpolitical response, we could be in big trouble. Do you buy that statement by your opponent?

MR. FERRER -- Well, you know, I'm disappointed. It was a little more than a week ago that we both pledged ourselves to not launching negative campaigns. I've counted before I walked onto this stage from Mark and his campaign 19 separate attacks. Now look, I had hoped this would be a different kind of campaign where we'd discuss ideas and, as Mark put it, be relentlessly focused on the future of this city. Let's do it in that way. Now to compare our ideas is fine. To denigrate ideas and say, "Mine's a big idea and yours is a little idea," is not only beside the point, it's frankly apart from what there should be in this debate, Mark.

MR. GREEN -- It's not beside the point -- it is the point. The greatest municipal crisis that we or any city has faced should test who responded well and who didn't. And to say right away that, "Gee, I was the borough president in the Bronx when there was rubble there, too." To compare this catastrophe -- mass murder of 5,000 people, 100,000 jobs lost, $100 billion hit in the economy -- to the Happy Land fire and the blackout of '77 -- let me just finish, Gabe -- which was disastrous, shows a lack of appreciation of the magnitude of the economic impact, the safety impact and the federal impact. And so if The New York Times and The Daily News say that your plans were vague and that my plans were comprehensive, how else should voters judge us, Freddy, unless how we respond to the greatest crisis in our history? Why can't we compare our records and our visions?

MR. FERRER -- I would like to do that if we can get beyond your flurry of attacks, Mark. Now, this isn't the first time you've done this. When you saw support slipping and your poll numbers dropping you did precisely the same thing in 1998 when you attacked and distorted Geraldine Ferraro's record and Chuck Schumer's record. You even questioned his credentials as a Democrat. So let's try to keep this on the issues. . . .

MR. GREEN -- When Freddy Ferrer mocked me in his announcement speech and his surrogates did last week and he did all of last week, I didn't whine and I didn't complain. I responded with a plan on how the economy and the city could recover. I think it's now fine if he wants to say critical things about me and my leadership, which is fair, it is not appropriate, it is essential that we compare our leadership now. That's not attacks, Freddy. It's facts. . . .

Q. In view of the tremendous financial problems ahead that you've been discussing, the two of you, do you think this puts Michael Bloomberg, the Republican candidate who has a reputation as a brilliant businessman, has commercials touting his managerial skills, his ability to lead a team of people, do you think this puts Michael Bloomberg in a good position to win the general election no matter which one of you gentlemen wins the primary?

MR. GREEN -- Look, we've seen how Mayor Giuliani, for his flaws before this catastrophe -- and I've stood up to him more than any, but I'll stand with him if it helps kids and it helps rebuild our city -- he has shown how you need to have experience in government to bring private and public sectors together, Washington, Albany and the city together. Michael Bloomberg has as much experience in government to bring us together as you or I have in running Bloomberg Financial News.

Q. On this I think you gentlemen probably agree. You don't think Mr. Bloomberg, his cause is advanced by this?

MR. FERRER -- He's been a brilliant businessman. But he rules his corporation, he hasn't ever had to seek consensus. He hasn't ever had to do anything that a governmental leader is called upon to do every day of his life in public service. So, no. I think they're very different experiences. . . .

MR. GREEN -- Gabe, I'm a citywide official, have been for over 10 years, appointed or elected. For the last eight years, I've been the No. 2 official serving next in line to the mayor if, God forbid, I would have to fill any vacancy. So I've been thinking about leadership for that amount of time. I am ready to lead this city, I am ready to rebuild the economy, I am ready to provide enhanced safety and I'm ready to educate our children.

Q. Mr. Ferrer, I detect in that reference to a citywide official that you're provincial, according to your opponent.

MR. FERRER -- Did you gather that from that statement?

Q. I'm deducing it.

MR. FERRER -- Well, Gabe, let me tell you this. In a public career of serving this city for nearly 20 years as a member of the City Council, member of the old board of estimate and borough president of the Bronx over 14 years, I've voted for, funded and implemented initiatives that have changed people's lives. I didn't plan them, and I thought about them, but I did something about them, too.

Q. -- The Sharpton factor. A lot of people are turned off by The Rev. Al Sharpton. Many others like him a lot. He's supporting you. Do you think he's more of an asset than a liability?

MR. FERRER -- Look, I sought his support just like Mark did. And I received his support. And I'm very happy to have his support, as well as the support of former Mayor Ed Koch, former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, State Comptroller Carl McCall, Gerry Ferraro and so many others in support of my candidacy. They believe in the things that I believe in. I'm grateful for their help.

Q. -- Do you believe he's a liability or an asset to your opponent?

MR. GREEN -- I never had to make the judgment because I didn't seek his support. You know, Freddy, there are reporters who have memories. As Al Sharpton will tell you, I never sought his support. As The New York Post will say, for you to deny you ran on an us-them, two cities approach is like F.D.R. denying there was a New Deal. For you to deny that in your announcement speech and your surrogates attacked me. So now your just extremely distressed when I compare our records. You've got to tell people the truth. I never sought Reverend Sharpton's support.

Q. Mr. Sharpton implied yesterday that you did seek his support.

MR. GREEN -- No, no, no. Ask ----

Q. He said jocularly: I didn't realize that we were just hanging out. He referred to you taking him and his wife to the theater.

MR. GREEN -- Gabe, I've had a meal with you, but I didn't ask for your endorsement. I intentionally did not seek Reverend Sharpton's endorsement. I work well with Reverend Sharpton. Should I be the mayor, it's very important that I can sit down with the leader of any constituency group. And he's an important leader. But it is beside the point, Rudy Giuliani's not on the ballot, Al Sharpton's not on the ballot. One of two Democrats will have shown the leadership, the plans, the consistency, the vision, to run this city, unite this city and rebuild this city.

MR. FERRER -- I need to respond to this. Who are you trying to kid, Mark? I mean ----

MR. GREEN -- Stop acting, Freddy. I didn't ask for his support.

MR. FERRER -- Who are you trying to kid? You took them out to the theater, you had them over at your apartment for breakfast ----

MR. GREEN -- Did I ask him for his support?

MR. FERRER -- You courted his support.

MR. GREEN -- Freddy, you're not telling the truth.

MR. FERRER -- Please, excuse me.

MR. GREEN -- You can't not tell the truth. I'm the one who had dinner with him, Freddy, not you.

MR. FERRER -- Please excuse me -- while you're interrupting.

MR. GREEN -- A courtesy is not a solicitation.

MR. FERRER -- Oh, I see. But in 19 -- but I think the people need to know, in 1998 Mark did seek his support, did court his support, did warmly accept his support for the United States Senate run that he mounted in the Democratic primary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (71%); HIJACKING (71%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (59%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; ABORTION; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) ;FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



270 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MUSLIMS; 
Among New York Muslims, Support for U.S. Strikes

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN and CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
From the Arab world's local Main Street, in Brooklyn, to Afghan mosques in Queens, to the halls of academe, many Muslims yesterday expressed sometimes tentative, sometimes anguished support for the attacks on Afghanistan. Many also feared for the innocent.
 The long-awaited United States retaliation for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks provided a sudden and sharp focus for the feelings of Muslims who make their home just miles, not continents, away from the World Trade Center nightmare. 
 Unlike many Muslims abroad, who declared the bombing and missile raids an outrage against Islam, a number of Muslim New Yorkers said -- publicly, at least -- that the strikes were necessary. Others struggled with conflicting feelings: justice must be done, but not this way. 
"I think right now we're really worried about people who are in Afghanistan, the men, women and children there who are innocent and might be in grave danger," said Noera Ayaz, 25, an American of Pakistani descent who is co-chairwoman of the Columbia University Law School's Muslim Students Association.
"As Muslims, we are taught to be conscious of all of humanity," she said. "What we've been hearing is that the attacks are being very targeted, on specific military targets. We're hoping that's the case."
Ms. Ayaz did not see the actions as an attack on Islam. "Islam is against terrorism," she said. So as a Muslim, she said, she favors the fight against it.
"Personally, I feel that whoever is responsible for the World Trade Center attacks should be brought to justice, but I'm not sure attacking Afghanistan is doing that," she said. "I wish I knew a better way to do that."
Along Atlantic Avenue near Court Street in Brooklyn, there was a strong police presence and an American flag in almost every shop window. That is because it is the Arab heartland of the city, a stretch with a long-established and heavy concentration of Arab-American businesses, many of them run by Muslims.
"My opinion? It's not just a matter of a couple of missiles," said Saad Almontsar inside his A & S tobacco shop as a police officer stood in the doorway. "It'll take a long run. It's worldwide. More important than the bombs is the political issue. We have to clean this up," he added, referring to terrorism, which he said was the scourge of all people.
Mr. Almontsar, who said he had been the object of hateful remarks since the World Trade Center attacks, said he found himself in an odd position. As a Muslim, vice president of the Yemen American Association and someone who has been in the area for 10 years, he finds himself these days as both a source of information about the Muslim world and as an object of scrutiny.
At the Hazrat Abudakr Islamic Center, an Afghan mosque on 43rd Avenue in Flushing, Queens, a crowd of men had already gathered yesterday to pray after the death of a mosque member that was unrelated to the World Trade Center attacks.
Many of them said they were seeking political asylum.
Some said they had fought with the Northern Alliance, the military force that controls a tiny piece of Afghanistan and is fighting the Taliban.
A shrine to the victims of the World Trade Center blast has grown at the front gate of the mosque.
There are newspaper clippings and photographs of the dead attached to a chain-link fence, and a cluster of lighted candles lining the sidewalk. 
Every few minutes, groups of men emerged from the mosque and gathered around a car that had a radio blaring news about the bombing.
"We've been looking forward to the U.S. taking action," said Ekliel Mohmand, who lives in Flushing and immigrated to New York from Kabul.
"We believe the attack is not on the Afghan people, but on specific locations of the Taliban. At first we were concerned that the U.S. would attack Afghanistan with B-2 bombers and start carpet-bombing our country," he said. "But we think the attack is not on regular citizens, and so all and all it is a positive thing, a new beginning for our people."
Mohammad Nasim, who was at his home in Flushing yesterday, heard of the military strikes on CNN. "I'm happy because it will save the future of Afghanistan," he said.
Several of those at the mosque said they feared for their relatives' safety, but that they believed the United States would be steadfast in attempts to avoid hitting civilians. 
In Fresh Meadows, about 200 Afghan New Yorkers gathered at the Mustang Cafe Restaurant, an Afghan establishment, to discuss the situation. The reaction was somber.
"It's sad," said Abdul Aziz, 35, a janitor in Manhattan who lives in Flushing. "I have relatives over there, and I'm concerned about them. I wish it could have been done in a different way, if there was another way to solve the problem. 
M. Ishaq Nadiri, the Jay Gould Professor of Economics at New York University, also attended the meeting. He described the mood of Afghan New Yorkers -- even those who support the American actions -- as one of "great sorrow."
"They are absolutely sad that the country is being bombed," he said. "This community is highly, highly uncertain. There is a degree of depression that is both personal and communal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers patrolled along Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn yesterday, in one of the city's biggest Arab neighborhoods and commercial districts. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); WOMEN (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); TOBACCO STORES (62%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AFGHAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MUSLIM-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: WAKIN, DANIEL J; LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



271 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Changing Numbers 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
A month ago, the Legislature and the governor were locked in a protracted political and institutional struggle over the state budget and how much to spend on education.
 But like so many things in New York, all that changed when hijackers rammed jets into the World Trade Center towers. Hopes for a quick economic recovery that might have produced extra tax revenue to pay for schools and health care were buried in the rubble along with the victims. 
 Before the terrorist attack, the budget impasse revolved around a dispute over revenue forecasts: how much money above what Gov. George E. Pataki put in his plan would be generated through taxes. 
The governor, a Republican, warned that revenues were shriveling in the sluggish economy and that the state could afford little more than the $83.6 billion he had proposed in January. The Assembly's ruling Democrats maintained that, even with the economic downturn, the governor was underestimating revenue by about $2 billion in order to hoard money for next year when he faces a re-election campaign.
That debate became meaningless on Sept. 11. 
No one in Albany knows for certain how much tax revenue will be lost because of the attack, but everyone knows that Wall Street and the financial services industry account for a big chunk of the wages earned in the state. Last year, for instance, people working in Manhattan below 14th Street earned $47 billion in wages, about 15 percent of the state's total, the Assembly's economists said.
Thousands of those taxpayers are now dead. At least 30,000 more have been temporarily relocated out of the state, and that number is expected to grow, legislative budget experts say. The state will most likely lose income taxes from all those relocated taxpayers who do not live in the state. Tens of thousands of others who worked in businesses that fed off Wall Street are likely to lose their jobs. The stock market has taken a steep plunge since the attack. Unemployment is creeping up. Consumer spending has slowed to a crawl.
Carole Stone, the state budget director, estimated last week that the state would lose $1 billion to $3 billion in revenue in the fiscal year ending in April, and $2 billion to $6 billion in the next fiscal year. She acknowledged that those were rough estimates.
"Our forecast on the impact of the World Trade Center event is still based on sketchy information," she said. 
For his part, the governor vowed in the aftermath of the attack to balance this year's budget without raising taxes or laying off workers. If revenues plummet, as Ms. Stone predicts, however, the governor will have to dip into reserves of about $2.6 billion to avoid layoffs or tax increases this year, she said. 
And if revenues drop an additional $6 billion next year, as in the worst case Ms. Stone envisions, the state could face a financial crisis. Last week, Mr. Pataki directed the heads of state agencies to freeze spending in the next budget at this year's levels.
One bright spot in this fiscal fog is the federal government's pledge of $20 billion to pay the entire state and city portion of the cost for the cleanup and reconstruction of the World Trade Center. That means the state may not have to shoulder the gargantuan cost of replacing the buildings, subway and PATH stations and tunnels, and other infrastructure destroyed in the attack, Ms. Stone and legislative leaders said.
But few budget experts doubt that tax revenues are going to be lower than even the governor's conservative projections. Talk of adding more school aid has ceased for now. The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, has warned schools, local governments and other groups to lower their expectations.
"We know there is going to be a huge hit to the revenues of the state," Senator Bruno said. "We don't know, truly, what the ramifications are, totally and completely, because the story is unfolding."
The Assembly Democrats recognize that the fiscal and political terrain has shifted under them, but they have been reluctant to surrender in their fight to get more money for school aid, health care and grants for local governments. "It's clear that the needs are still there, from education to municipal aid," the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said. 
But much depends on what kinds of expenses the federal government will be willing to absorb, Mr. Silver and Ms. Stone said. The governor and Legislature have asked that some of the aid flowing from the Federal Emergency Management Agency be used to balance the state and city budgets, as well as for removing debris and rebuilding. So far, that request has received a cool reception in Congress.
"The real issue is, Is the federal government going to make up some of the revenue losses?" Mr. Silver said. "The revenue losses are a direct result of terror against the United States of America, so I think the federal government should in all fairness, as part of its disaster relief, provide for those revenue shortfalls."
To complicate matters, the state's current budget is a jury-rigged affair. Mr. Silver and Senator Bruno, frustrated with Mr. Pataki's unwillingness to bargain, passed a bare-bones version of the governor's budget on Aug. 3 meant to compel the governor into negotiation. 
Now the Pataki administration maintains that the stripped-down budget will drive spending up to $84 billion without any new spending or programs, because it lacks the governor's cost-cutting proposals. 
Ms. Stone, the state budget director, said that for the moment, the state budget, even with its flaws, is still balanced, with about $2.6 billion in reserve, largely because Mr. Pataki has been adept at building up surpluses over the past five years. But she acknowledged the full effect of the terrorist attack had yet to work through the economy.
"We all recognize that we are in uncertain times and we are going to have to re-evaluate almost every issue," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TERRORISM (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); RELOCATIONS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



272 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Excerpts From Pentagon Briefing on Air Strikes

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from a news briefing yesterday at the Pentagon by Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and General Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, regarding the United States military strikes in Afghanistan, as recorded by The New York Times:

MR. RUMSFELD -- Today the president has turned to direct, overt military force to complement the economic, humanitarian, financial and diplomatic activities which are already well under way.
 The effect we hope to achieve through these raids, which together with our coalition partners we have initiated today, is to create conditions for a sustained antiterrorist and humanitarian relief operation in Afghanistan.
That requires that among other things we first remove the threat from air defenses and from Taliban aircraft. We also seek to raise the cost of doing business for foreign terrorists who have chosen Afghanistan from which to organize their activities and for the oppressive Taliban regime that continues to tolerate terrorist presence in those portions of Afghanistan which they control.
The current military operations are focused on achieving several outcomes: to make clear to the Taliban leaders and their supporters that harboring terrorists is unacceptable and carries a price; to acquire intelligence to facilitate future operations against Al Qaeda and the Taliban regime that harbors the terrorists; to develop relationships with groups in Afghanistan that oppose the Taliban regime and the foreign terrorists that they support; to make it increasingly difficult for the terrorists to use Afghanistan freely as a base of operation; and to alter the military balance over time by denying to the Taliban the offensive systems that hamper the progress of the various opposition forces; and to provide humanitarian relief to Afghans suffering truly oppressive living conditions under that Taliban regime. . . .
I want to reiterate a point that President Bush has made often and that he made again today in his remarks. The United States has organized armed coalitions on several occasions since the cold war for the purpose of denying hostile regimes the opportunity to oppress their own people and other people. In Kuwait, in northern Iraq, in Somalia, Bosnia and Kosovo, the United States took action on behalf of Muslim populations against outside invaders and oppressive regimes. 
The same is true today. We stand with those Afghans who are being repressed by a regime that abuses the very people it purports to lead, and that harbors terrorists who have attacked and killed thousands of innocents around the world of all religions, of all races and of all nationalities.
While our raids today focus on the Taliban and the foreign terrorists in Afghanistan, our aim remains much broader. Our objective is to defeat those who use terrorism and those who house or support them. The world stands united in this effort. It is not about a religion or an individual terrorist or a country. Our partners in this effort represent nations and peoples of all cultures, all religions and all races. . . .

GENERAL MYERS -- As the secretary said, today our forces have begun the initial part of military operations in the war against terrorism. About 15 land-based bombers, some 25 strike aircraft from carriers and U.S. and British ships and submarines launching approximately 50 Tomahawk missiles have struck targets -- terrorist targets in Afghanistan. The first target was hit at approximately 12:30 Eastern Standard Time, and operations continue as we speak.
As the secretary said, these efforts are designed to disrupt and destroy terrorist activities in Afghanistan and to set the conditions for future military action as well as to bring much-needed food and medical aid to the people of Afghanistan. . . .

QUESTION. -- Was Osama bin Laden targeted in this raid? And can you give us -- I understand it's still early -- any preliminary assessment of how successful these attacks were?

MR. RUMSFELD -- No, it's far too early to try to measure success. And the answer is no, with respect to him; this is not about a single individual. It's about an entire terrorist network and multiple terrorist networks across the globe. . . .
Q. -- It's been said many times from the podium that there just aren't that many targets in Afghanistan. Apparently you've found some. Can you explain that? And also, can you address what seems to be somewhat of an anomaly in this mission, the idea that you're fighting your way in in order to drop humanitarian relief on people. And if the places where you're dropping relief, if you're getting shot at there, are you not essentially dropping relief on the enemy?

MR. RUMSFELD -- Well, first with respect to the targets, I think I've said repeatedly from this podium that there are not a lot of high-value targets. I've pointed out that the Taliban and the Al Qaeda do not have armies, navies and air forces. And that's clear, they don't. I've therefore characterized this conflict, this campaign, this so-called war as being notably different from others. And it means that what we have to do is exactly what I said in my earlier remarks: We have to create the conditions for a sustained effort that will assist those forces in the country that are opposed to Taliban and opposed to Al Qaeda.
And we have to do it in a variety of different ways. We have to dry up their bank accounts. We have to bring political, diplomatic pressure to bear on them. We have to bring economic pressure to bear. And, to the extent we can, use overt as well as covert activities to improve target information, to gather intelligence that will enable us to be more precise in what we do and to force people to move and change what they're doing, to raise the cost of what they're doing, to attempt to reduce the number of people around the globe who support them and finance them. All of that helps. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TALIBAN (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); RELIGION (84%); COLD WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HIJACKING (74%); AIRLINES (69%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); MYERS, RICHARD B (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



273 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Elegant Hotel Tightens Its Classy Belt; 
Carlyle's Business Hit Hard by Disaster, but Loyal Staff Rallies

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The most demanding of guests would find it difficult to notice the strange disquiet these days at the Carlyle Hotel. But it is there. 
 More than three weeks after the unthinkable event, that soigne preserve of presidents, prime ministers and popular legends is outwardly unscathed. The polished Belgian marble floor in the lobby is glossier than ever. Ronald Hector still welcomes the guests at the reception desk -- and yes, there are guests -- with his customary aplomb. John Neary still accommodates quirky limousine requests behind the concierge counter. And John Loizos delivers room-service requests almost before they can be ordered. 
 But a deeper inventory shows the wounds. 
Hotel occupancy, which dropped perilously to 30 percent, is only now rebounding. In place of layoffs, the staff of 404 -- many of whom have worked there for decades -- have volunteered to save one another's jobs by working four-day weeks. The elegant Cafe Carlyle has been shuttered and cabaret has been stilled until Bobby Short, the hotel's sophisticated saloon singer, can return Oct. 16 to sing a few songs.
It might be thought that the Carlyle, more than five miles away from ground zero at 36 East 76th Street, has been completely fortunate. After all, with the destruction of the Marriott World Trade Center Hotel and the Millennium Hilton, some 600 hotel workers lost their jobs. And in the economic aftershock, 5,000 of the 25,000 members of the Hotel Trades Council, an alliance of unions, have been laid off since Sept. 11. 
But the Carlyle, as a microcosm of the city's high-end hospitality industry, has not been spared. The once-booming banquet-room business has deflated. Its catering staff has struggled along, holding a poignant clutch of corporations' crisis-management conferences and grief-counseling sessions. There have been many memorial services for the dead. 
Security -- never you mind what -- has been taken to "a whole different level," said Peter French, the hotel's new managing director. Scrutiny was already tight to protect its well-heeled guests, but now the hotel has undergone what Mr. French called "a full terrorist audit" from top to bottom. 
There was already uncertainty and concern within the Carlyle, after the purchase of the privately owned hotel last January by Maritz, Wolff & Company, the owner of 18 luxury hotels in five countries. 
Mr. French, 51, has long experience with turmoil. In the mid-1970's, in Bangkok, he was managing director of the Oriental Hotel. "We had a coup there just about every day," he said, "but we made sure that nothing ever interrupted the calm of the hotel." In London, as managing director of Grosvenor House, he protected visiting royals from I.R.A. bombs "with sniffer dogs and all the appropriate security," he said. "America," he said, "has been very protected from this sort of thing." 
At the moment of the trade center attack, Mr. Hector was standing behind the front desk "in exactly the same place I was two decades ago when the lights went out," said the 36-year hotel veteran, referring to the 1977 blackout. 
On Sept. 11, the Carlyle was fully booked; soon, the authorities announced that airline flights were frozen. "To a degree, what we experienced was like a blizzard," Mr. Hector said. "Most of the checkouts? Can't. Most of the arrivals? Can't. You had the not-leavings, and the not-comings." 
Meanwhile, most of the morning shift -- 110 employees -- gathered in the Cafe Carlyle before the pastel Vertes murals. "Literally my first meeting with the whole staff," Mr. French said, "came at 10:30 on Tuesday morning," less than two hours after the attack. 
Mr. French -- all 6-foot-4 of him in his dark Gieves & Hawkes suit -- stood before the ebony Baldwin grand piano and told them: "For the next few days, New York will go through something that it never has before in history. And the staff must perform as it never has before." 
"For most of them," he said later, "it was the first time they had ever laid eyes on me. But then our people worked straight through for 24 hours." 
Distraught guests worried about the safety of friends and relatives. Hotel workers waited for word from their own families. 
Mr. Loizos and the room-service staff scrambled to fill orders. "Guests were glued to their TV sets and didn't want to leave their rooms," he said. Mr. Loizos learned that his 31-year-old cousin, John Katsimatides, a trader at Cantor Fitzgerald, was missing in 1 World Trade Center. He toiled on. His cousin is still missing. 
Many of the hotel's wealthy guests were, for several days, homeless, Mr. French said. Single guests accustomed to state-of-the-art cosseting doubled up without complaint. Families renting several rooms were compressed into one. 
Philip F. Maritz, the president of the company that owns the hotel, who was occupying a grand tower suite, befitting his proprietorship, gave that up in favor of a small room, where, despite dodgy telephone connections, he tried to keep touch with his far-flung hotel empire. 
"It was an extraordinary experience for all of us to share," Mr. Maritz said of the staff, adding that the tragedy never made him second-guess his purchase. "We'd wanted a New York hotel for a long time, and I think the Carlyle will be a great investment," he said. "Anyway, you can't look back."
The new chef, Jean-Louis Dumonet, had arrived at the Carlyle exactly one week before. Using available supplies the day of the attack, he offered a pared-down menu in the Carlyle restaurant, cooked 100 meals for the hotel staff and completed 125 room-service orders. 
Guests and neighborhood habitues, who have long treated the hotel and its facilities almost as a top-tier public utility, overflowed the 90-seat restaurant. Meanwhile, the staff was fed in the Cafe Carlyle, as kitchen prep workers, maids and porters took meals along with Mr. French and his senior staff. 
That evening Mr. French and his staff set up 12 cots in a suite "and slept toe to toe," he said. "We don't need all those planned staff bonding weekends now," said Mr. French. "We did it all in two days." 
At first it seemed that none of the Carlyle guests came near the tragedy. That afternoon, a guest returned, describing how he was just stepping out of a taxi at 7 World Trade Center when the first hijacked plane crashed. Later, the Carlyle learned that three of its regular guests perished in the hijacked planes. 
The next day, stonewalled by the ban on air flights, concierges were scrambling to find rental cars. One guest -- the hotel refuses to name any of them, but they are familiar names -- rented a limousine to Cleveland. Several guests drove to Montreal together, to charter a plane back to London. 
After the initial guests began to leave, a new wave arrived: relatives of police officers and firefighters, and relatives of the missing who were frantically hunting for loved ones. 
Initially, occupancy in the hotel's 180 rooms, which cost $500 to $2,500 a night, was more than 100 percent in the days after the disaster, then sank to 30 percent during the second week. Then it was 40 percent, and up to 50 percent last week. Now, "60 percent or more is possible," Mr. French said, especially since the Carlyle will welcome 64 museum directors from around the world this week, for an annual conference sponsored by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The hotel would normally be more than 80 percent full in October. 
But the hotel business is populated by optimists. The Christmas season approaches. "People will always travel," Mr. French said. "People will always eat. People will always need a room." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Hector, Victoria Sierra, left, and Louisa Munoz at the Carlyle. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. F3); Peter French, the Carlyle's new managing director, and hotel employees in the Cafe Carlyle, in much the same pose as when he held his first staff meeting less than two hours after the trade center attacks. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (82%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DISMISSALS (74%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); WORK WEEK (73%); DOGS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); TERRORISM (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); GRIEF COUNSELING (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WORKING HOURS 

COMPANY: MARITZ WOLFF & CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CARLYLE HOTEL (NYC) 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



274 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: BEIJING; 
China Offers Its Wary Support for Attacks

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Monday, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The Chinese government offered wary support today for the American and British attacks in Afghanistan, issuing a brief statement that it "opposes terrorism of any form."
 In the statement, the Foreign Ministry also said that "military strikes on terrorism should be targeted at specific objectives, so as to avoid hurting innocent civilians" and reiterated China's support for anti-terrorism resolutions in the United Nations. 
 The statement was consistent with the cautiously supportive stance by China since the deadly Sept. 11 attacks. 
The Beijing government is cultivating better ties with the West, which it sees as vital to China's economic modernization, and it fears possible terrorism in its own borders, especially in the western Muslim Xinjiang Province, where a sometimes violent separatist movement is simmering.
At the same time, China is worried about the political stability of its regional ally Pakistan, and does not want to see American or NATO military forces entrenched near its Central Asian borders.
"China hopes that peace can be restored as soon as possible," the statement added. China has said it will not provide troops for any assaults on the Taliban or other terrorist targets and has repeatedly called for a strong United Nations role in a campaign.
This afternoon, the American assistant secretary of state for Asian affairs, James Kelley, is scheduled to arrive in Beijing for consultations, apparently to inform the Chinese directly about American plans in Afghanistan. The Bush administration, while forging ahead with Britain, Pakistan and other allies, has also made a point of consulting with China and Russia during the crisis and hopes to keep their support.
President Bush will briefly visit China this month for a summit meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Organization, to be held in Shanghai. After Sept. 11, he canceled his previously planned side-visit to Beijing.
Also arriving in Beijing today for a one-day visit is Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, who hopes to soothe anti-Japanese feelings here related to World War II aggression and his recent visit to a shrine to Japan's war dead, which China bitterly criticized. 
Mr. Koizumi has proposed that Japanese military forces provide background support in the anti-terror battle, a step beyond the nation's cautious self-defense role in recent decades that makes China and other neighbors nervous. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AIRLINES (65%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); JAPAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) CHINA; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



275 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AID; 
Individual Meals From the Sky

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
American troops aboard two C-17 cargo jets were dropping about 37,000 individually wrapped food packages into some of the most remote areas of Afghanistan today in an effort to show the Islamic world that the United States wanted to help the Afghan people at the same time that it was punishing their Taliban rulers.
 The areas singled out for the drops were in the central highlands, where some of the poorest people in Afghanistan, the Hazara ethnic group, live in inaccessible valleys and mountains, a senior administration official said. 
 Pentagon officials said today that they had devised a method of bundling food packages in crates that break up as they fall and allow a soft landing for individually wrapped meals. 
To help the packages survive the drop from the high-altitude planes, a paper wing has been attached to each meal box, Andrew Natsios, the administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, said.
The packages, described by the agency as humanitarian daily rations, contain 2,300 calories, with high starch content from lentils and beans and little fat, Mr. Natsios said. Some spicy condiments, including cumin, garlic and hot pepper, are also included.
In the past, air drops have been highly inefficient in delivering food and have often been carried out for the psychological effect rather than the nutritional advantage. Often, food drops end up in the wrong hands or get smashed into useless pieces upon landing. 
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Richard B. Myers, said at the Pentagon today that the meals would not be attached to parachutes, a method used in the past. The Pentagon has "high confidence we'll be able to get them where we want to put them," General Myers said.
In concentrating on the central highlands, the administration has chosen an area with severe malnutrition that is hard to reach by truck or with C-130 planes of the United Nations World Food Program, officials said.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Reuters) Chart: "Help for the Hungry"The Pentagon says that 37,500 "Humanitarian Daily Ration" packages of food were airdropped over Afghanistan to help its citizens. Here is what officials say those packages contain. photos show the following: Utensils package including salt, pepper, napkin and a matchBeans with tomato saucePeanut butterStrawberry jamPackages also include beans and tomato vinaigrette, biscuit, fruit pastry and shortbread.Fruit bar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FAMINE (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); NUTRITION (72%); RELIGION (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); ETHNIC GROUPS (56%); ETHNICITY (56%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FAMINE 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%) ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



276 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Suicide Bombing in Israel And Clashes in West Bank
Despite a cease-fire, the violence between Palestinians and Israelis barely paused. The first suicide bomber to strike in Israel during the current cease-fire killed himself and one Israeli at a kibbutz in northern Israel. In the West Bank city of Hebron, a Palestinian was shot dead and three were injured. Israeli troops attacked two neighborhoods there on Friday in an effort to stop sniper attacks. Israeli troops continued to hold their positions in areas of Hebron that by previous agreement are Palestinian-controlled. A6

New Detail on Russian Crash
A tape recording on the ground registered a scream from a crew member aboard a Russian passenger plane at the moment that it exploded over the Black Sea last week, a Russian official said. Russian investigators are continuing to sift through wreckage of the SibirAir TU-154 jet recovered from the Black Sea to try to learn why the airliner exploded and plunged into the sea 87 miles off Russia's coast. Investigators reported finding several foreign objects in the wreckage, which supports the contention of American military officials that the plane was downed by an Ukrainian missile gone awry when it was fired during a military exercise. A8

Teams to Raise Submarine
Nearly 14 months after its 118 crewmen perished when unexplained explosions sent it plummeting to the floor of the Barents Sea, salvage teams have begun efforts to raise the Kursk. The operation to lift the 505-foot, 17,000-ton submarine, which had twin nuclear reactors and a payload of torpedoes and 22 cruise missiles, is one of the most complex salvage operations ever attempted. A8

New Threat to Ulster Peace
The troubled Northern Ireland peace effort is expected to enter another crisis this week, with Protestant parties planning to withdraw from the region's power-sharing government over the continued refusal by the Irish Republican Army to disarm. The move is likely to force Britain to reinstate direct rule from London for the third time in four months. A6

Pope Beatifies Seven People
Pope John Paul II beatified seven people, elevating three women and four men to one step from sainthood. They include a German journalist who denounced the Nazis and was hanged by them. His beatification was opposed by his son, who has accused the Roman Catholic Church in Germany of failing to take an active role in the fight against Nazism. A4

Help for World's Poorest
An international coalition of microlending agencies -- devoted to financing homespun businesses from Chicago to mountain villages in Chiapas -- plans to announce today at a meeting of Latin American experts in Mexico that it has made significant strides toward its goals of helping the world's poorest families. It will report that since it began an effort in 1997 to reach 100 million of the world's poorest families by 2005, it has reached about 19.3 million families. A3

NATIONAL A12,15

Newly Laid-Off Workers Put Safety Net to the Test
The tens of thousands of layoffs that followed the Sept. 11 terrorism attacks have shocked the economy, and will pose a significant new test of a revamped social safety net. They will face a welfare system that was overhauled in 1996 and has never faced a recession. A12

Governors Setting Press Limits
In Alabama and Minnesota, chief executives have gone to unusual lengths to keep information from reporters or news organizations that have fallen from favor. Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura, for example, has declared, not for the first time, that he will no longer speak to home-state reporters. A15

Schools Postpone Field Trips
Across the country, many schools and districts have responded to last month's terrorist acts by canceling or postponing field trips, a nod to concerned parents who want their children to stay close to home in case of another attack. A12

Leading a New Military Mission
Thomas E. White, President Bush's secretary of the Army, faces a new challenge as the man appointed to direct the military's efforts to combat terrorism in America. He will help shape a radically different role for an institution historically geared to fighting overseas. A12

Workers Hurt by Hot Coals
About a dozen Burger King marketing department workers suffered first- and second-degree burns to their feet when they walked over white-hot coals at a meeting intended to promote bonding. A15

Firm Was Warned on Safety
The company involved in an accident last month that caused the collapse of a Texas causeway, Brown Water Marine Service, has been linked to at least 60 maritime infractions in 10 years and was warned by the Coast Guard in 1998 to address safety problems, the San Antonio Express-News reported. Eight people died in the Sept. 15 accident. (AP)

OBITUARIES F6

Herbert L. Block
The Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist for The Washington Post who under the name Herblock skewered every president since Herbert Hoover, he was 91. F6

Emilie Schindler
Well-known, with her husband, Oskar, for helping to save hundreds of Jews from Nazi death camps in a saga memorialized by the movie "Schindler's List," she was 93. F6

NEW YORK/REGION F1-5

Democratic Mayoral Race Takes a More Caustic Tone
Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer clashed in back-to-back, testy debates in which they assailed one another's credibility on issues. With the Democratic primary set for Thursday, the two men, in a dead heat, are battling with an intensity not seen before in this race for mayor of New York City. F1

Bloomberg Bracing for Contest
While the spotlight has been on the Democratic primary runoff, Michael R. Bloomberg, Republican candidate for mayor, has been laying the cornerstones for his campaign against the eventual nominee. He has resumed spending on new television spots, written and produced with the Sept. 11 attacks and their aftermath in mind. F4

Behind Detention, a Story
As their lawyer tells it, five young men who were picked up by F.B.I. agents on the George Washington Bridge on Sept. 11, they had a box cutter; one man had $4,000, and two had passports. But what early news accounts missed was that all five were Israeli Jews, and that at least four and possibly all five worked for a moving company. F3

Hotel Faces Impact of Terror
More than three weeks after the terrorist attack, Manhattan's Carlyle Hotel, that soigne preserve of presidents, prime ministers and popular legends, is outwardly unscathed. But, as with much of the city's high-end hospitality industry, the wounds are there. F1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Bonds Hits Home Run No. 73
Barry Bonds, baseball's new home run king, hit his 73rd in the first inning of his last game of the regular season. D3

Joining an Elite Baseball Club
Rickey Henderson of the San Diego Padres got his 3,000th hit on the final day of the regular season. He became the 25th member of baseball's 3,000-hit club. D3

New Marathon Record Set
Catherine Ndereba of Kenya broke the week-old world record in the women's marathon, winning the Chicago Marathon in 2 hours 18 minutes 47 seconds to break the previous mark by nearly a minute. D10

LIVING ARTS E1-10

Museums Feel Attack Effects
Museums in New York City and elsewhere around the country are struggling to rebound after seeing declines in attendance and revenues since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. E1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The American offensive begins; Mr. Ridge goes to Washington; a welcome distraction.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Toeing the U.S. Line
The Voice of America, born during World War II, nurtured in cold war propaganda and remade in the 1990's as a source of objective information for a global audience, has come under renewed pressure to be a salesman for government policy since Sept. 11. C1

Still Secure, at Least for Now
Don't expect ABC to cut loose Bill Maher, the talk show host who came under fire for remarks made in the wake of the terrorism attacks, anytime soon. But if Maher will be around at least a while longer, so is the uneasiness about him inside the network. C1

Computer Chip Breakthrough
Intel is expected to announce today that it has devised a new method for housing microprocessors that it hopes will speed development of high-performance microprocessors. C5

British Railway Reorganizing
In an effort to save Britain's railway system from collapse, Railtrack, the company that owns the tracks, will undergo a revamping that stops short of reverting to government control, a British court ruled. It will reorganize into a newly privatized company, cease having public stockholders and be required to reinvest all proceeds into the business. C6

Requiem for a Cheerleader
The Silicon Alley Reporter, a magazine known for its boosterism of New York's new media entrepreneurs, has published its last issue, its publisher said. C9

Comic Books Turn Serious
Comic book writers and artists, and their publishers, are debating how to portray the Sept. 11 attacks. In some cases, superheroes will be shown helping in the rescue efforts. C9

Business Digest C1

Bridge E4
Public Lives A12
Crossword E8
TV Log E9
Metro Diary F2
Weather D10

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the editorial cartoonist Herblock in some late editions yesterday misspelled the name of the cartoon created by Garry Trudeau, who said Herblock wrote out of "a truly deep conviction." It is "Doonesbury," not "Dunesbury."

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); AIRLINES (74%); MARINE SALVAGE (73%); DISARMAMENT (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); RELIGION (67%); POOR POPULATION (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MICROFINANCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



277 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Requiem for a Cheerleader: Silicon Alley Magazine Is Dead

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
The Silicon Alley Reporter, a magazine known for its unabashed boosterism of New York's new media entrepreneurs, has published its last issue, its publisher, Jason McCabe Calacanis, said last week.
 "The story's over," Mr. Calacanis said. "You can't have a magazine about unemployed people. You can't have a magazine about people who are taking time off." 
 Mr. Calacanis, 30, plans to begin publishing a magazine about venture capital investment called Venture Reporter beginning in December. 
In addition to articles about deals and new companies, the new magazine will feature lists along the lines of the Silicon Alley 100, an annual list of the top Internet executives in New York that was always the magazine's best-read issue.
To a large degree, the demise of the Silicon Alley Reporter reflects the consolidation and decline of the industry it chronicled.
The magazine started in 1996 as a 16-page photocopy, grew to a 250-page glossy at the height of the Internet boom last year and then shrank to 64 pages by its last issue this month, a victim of the technology advertising decline that also caused The Industry Standard, a national Internet business magazine, to stop publishing earlier this year.
Over the same period, new media employment in the New York area grew from almost nothing to 250,000 among 8,500 companies in 1999, according to a study commissioned by the New York New Media Association. In April 2000, just before the market started to fall, new media executives predicted that the industry would continue to grow at an annual rate of 40 percent. 
That did not happen. 
"It is a very, very difficult time here," said Alice O'Rourke, the association's executive director, noting that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks had placed more stress on companies. 
"From big technology providers to 14-person offices," Ms. O'Rourke said, "the word people are using again and again is 'body blow.' " 
Mr. Calacanis began to consider his options last summer, when he realized that many entrepreneurs in his last Top 100 issue were planning trips to Europe or going back to school. Josh Harris, whose face appeared on the magazine's cover before his company, Pseudo, closed down, is growing apples in upstate New York. Flatiron Partners, the Alley's leading venture capital firm, left its offices in the Flatiron Building in May and has moved in with its main backer, J. P. Morgan Chase & Company.
Mr. Calacanis says that although the Internet will continue to be a force in the economy, the industry's consolidation into a few powerful companies like America Online, Yahoo and Microsoft leaves him little to write about -- and less advertising. 
"Having a magazine about the Internet now is like having a magazine about refrigerators," he said. "What can you say about them? They work."
Before the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Calacanis had planned a funeral party for his magazine, complete with black-edged invitations and a coffin. He canceled it.
In an interview last week in his new Midtown office (he used to be in the Alley), Mr. Calacanis was left to wax nostalgic over the Silicon Alley 100 issue of 2000, published at the height of the boom. 
At a photo shoot for that issue were Alley luminaries like Candice Carpenter, founder of iVillage; Jay Walker, founder of Priceline; and Jeff Dachis, founder of Razorfish -- all of whom have since left their companies, which have all undergone reorganization. The total net worth in the room then was $30 billion to $40 billion, Mr. Calacanis estimates. If the same people were to gather for a photo shoot today, their worth would be more like $3 billion to $4 billion.
Brightening as he pored over a growing database of venture capital deals, he said that in the last 60 days investors had completed 93 deals with biotechnology and wireless companies. "There haven't been 93 deals in the Alley in the last year," he said. "This is all about following the money."
By paring his staff to 22, from 30, and continuing to producing industry conferences -- though none as lucrative as Silicon Alley 2000, for which 1,000 people bought $1,000 tickets -- Mr. Calacanis said the magazine had been able to break even in recent months. 
He is using the money he saved from the boom years and a $2 million line of credit to start Venture Reporter. And he will continue to publish two online newsletters about the Internet industry, SiliconAlleyDaily.com and DigitalCoastReporter.com, in addition to one about venture capital. 
Mr. Calacanis, a former party scene columnist, rides around the city on an orange Kozmo scooter, bought at a fire sale price after he wrote an article last April about the delivery service company going out of business. His refusal to sell his magazine at the height of the Internet boom and his role as Silicon Alley's biggest cheerleader won him affection, scorn and respect for his success and self-promotion. 
In the interview last week, he compared his decision to swap the Silicon Alley publication for Venture Reporter to Bob Dylan's decision to play an electric guitar at the Newport Folk Festival. "The fans hated it," he said, "but it was a brilliant move." 
Some companies that have survived the industry shakeout are sad to see the Silicon Alley Reporter go. 
"It was an irreverent, fun magazine, and it will be missed," said Kevin Ryan, chief executive of Doubleclick, whose "Welcome to Silicon Alley" billboard still hangs optimistically near the Flatiron. "Have you been to Silicon Valley recently?" he added, with old-fashioned Alley bravado. "It's much worse."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason McCabe Calacanis, shown with his dog, Toro, plans to close the Silicon Alley Reporter because "you can't have a magazine about unemployed people." (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TERRORISM (66%); APPLE ORCHARDS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) MAGAZINES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VENTURE CAPITAL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); AOL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SILICON ALLEY REPORTER (MAGAZINE); VENTURE REPORTER (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); AOL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: CALACANIS, JASON MCCABE; HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



278 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words

PERSON: Roger J. Boisvert 

HEADLINE: Roger J. Boisvert, 50, Canadian Who Ran Web Service in Japan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Roger J. Boisvert, one of Japan's leading Internet pioneers, died on Sept. 30 during a robbery in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived here.
 Mr. Boisvert was shot after he and a friend became lost in the Hawthorne section of Los Angeles early in the morning. They stopped their car alongside a highway and called Mr. Boisvert's hotel. They were studying a global positioning system map in the car when a robber approached and demanded money. Mr. Boisvert, the passenger, handed over his money and the driver handed over his cellphone, which was connected to the hotel at the time. 
 The robber's gun fired once, hitting Mr. Boisvert in the chest, killing him almost instantly, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. No suspect has been arrested.
Mr. Boisvert arrived in Tokyo 20 years ago from his native Canada with his wife, Yuriko Hiraguri, to run her family's coffee shop. In 1984, he joined McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, to teach employees how to use personal computers.
After almost a decade with a big corporation, Mr. Boisvert struck out on his own in 1993, setting up IIKK, Japan's first government-authorized commercial Internet service provider. The next year, using borrowed money and working out of a cramped apartment, he started his own provider, Global OnLine. The company, commonly known as GOL, became one of Japan's leading providers and was a pioneer in many areas of electronic commerce.
After selling GOL in late 1999, Mr. Boisvert set up CTR Ventures, a venture capital company based in Tokyo, another step in his successful career as an outsider in Japan's often closed and risk-averse economy.
"He was a pioneer, doing something in an environment where people said it was impossible," said Rike Wootten, an American businessman who is on CTR's board. "A lot of people have started companies on the basis that he was successful."
Thomas Caldwell, an American journalist here who is writing a biography of Mr. Boisvert, attributed much of his success to his low-key, friendly approach. "He never lost touch with the hacker crowd, with the engineers who make things work, with the lowly guys at the bottom of the corporate scale who were cutting the code and coming up with the ideas," he said.
In addition to his wife, Mr. Boisvert is survived by two sons, Christopher and Steven. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); SHERIFFS (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (71%); ARRESTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (66%); WRITERS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (53%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



279 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ENERGY; 
No Significant Increase in Oil Price Is Seen

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Oil prices, which have plunged in the last three weeks, are not expected to rise significantly in the wake of the initial United States strike against Afghanistan, analysts said yesterday.
 In the past, wars in the Middle East ignited fears about a disruption in the supply of oil from the region, which in turn led to sharp increases in prices. 
 Although Afghanistan is far from the Persian Gulf, some oil traders and others were concerned immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States that any retaliation might prompt the Muslim countries of the Middle East to curtail oil shipments to the West. 
But Saudi Arabia and other members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries have pledged to keep supplies stable, which helped to ease anxiety in the markets. Because of falling demand for oil in the sluggish global economy, prices have dropped about 20 percent since Sept. 11. 
Oil industry analysts and traders said prices might rise when the markets open today, anywhere from a few cents to a dollar or two, but none expected prices to stay high. In New York, oil for November delivery closed Friday at $22.39 a barrel.
"We had a small run-up at the end of last week in anticipation of any retaliation," said John Kilduff, senior vice president of energy risk management at Fimat, the commodities trading arm of Societe Generale. "I would expect a mild rise when the markets open. If the attacks remain limited to the Asian subcontinent, this won't be too much of a problem for the markets."
Analysts said they expected that the markets might react to another, far less important event. On Saturday, a bomb exploded in a busy mall in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, killing two people, including an American man. No one took immediate responsibility for the attack, and Saudi officials were quick to play down a possible connection between the incident and the expected United States offensive in Afghanistan.
But some industry experts said the Saturday attack might be a hint of the growing restiveness in Muslim countries as their leaders side with the West against Afghanistan and Osama bin Laden.
The United States has so far been careful to make sure that its campaign against bin Laden does not destabilize regimes in oil-producing countries aligned with it. Overthrowing the ruling royal family in Saudi Arabia and purging the country of the several thousand American troops stationed there has long been one of Mr. bin Laden's stated goals. 
Nervousness could rise in the oil markets if the United States strikes against Afghanistan lead to widespread protest in the Middle East or more terrorist attacks in oil-producing countries.
"The market might be afraid of what could happen next," said Leonidas P. Drollas, chief economist with the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); AIRLINES (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%) TERRORISM; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (54%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (54%); GLE (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); GULF STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



280 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: A Time of Reckoning 

BYLINE:  By Fawaz A. Gerges; Fawaz A. Gerges is a professor of Middle East and international affairs at Sarah Lawrence College and author of the forthcoming "The Islamists and the West."

DATELINE: BRONXVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
For Muslims of the Middle East and south and central Asia, the moment of reckoning arrived yesterday. The Bush administration has made what are, for an American government, extraordinary efforts to show that the war that began Sept. 11 will not be the war Osama bin Laden wants: a battle between Islam and the rest of the world, particularly the United States. Whether Muslims in the region accept, encourage and further this American effort will determine much of their fate in coming years. It will also determine how effective the war against terrorism will be.
 The outlook does not, for the moment, seem bright. A week ago I participated in a conference in Beirut on how Arabs and Muslims should respond to the campaign against terrorism. Present were leading political activists and politicians representing the broad spectrum of public opinion in the Muslim world. Despite the efforts of President George W. Bush to allay the fears of Arabs and Muslims by stressing that the United States will wage a relentless war on terrorism and its state sponsors, not on Islam and its adherents, the American message seemed to have fallen on deaf ears. Liberals, leftists and Arab nationalists sounded as suspicious of American war aims as the representative from Hezbollah. 
 Most participants claimed that the United States aims at far more than destroying Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda organization and toppling the Taliban regime. These representatives of the Muslim world were almost unanimously suspicious of America's intentions, believing that the United States has an overarching strategy which includes control of the oil and gas resources in Central Asia, encroachment on Chinese and Russian spheres of influence, destruction of the Iraqi regime, and consolidation of America's grip on the oil-producing Persian Gulf regimes.
Many Muslims suspected the Bush administration of hoping to exploit this tragedy to settle old scores and assert American hegemony in the world. This was despite the fact, unacknowledged by the conference participants, that the terror attack has forced the young president to shift focus from his domestic agenda to the world arena and that he has been dragged to war against his own will.
Compounding the discrepancy between American and Middle Eastern perspectives is a genuine skepticism about the culpability of Muslims in the terror attacks. Engrained suspicions raised by Muslim opinion makers reflect deeply held sentiments among the general public.
Many Middle Easterners with whom I spoke advanced conspiracy theories to explain what had happened. A Christian director of a Western bank in Beirut claimed that only "international Zionism possessed the means and the will to undertake this hideous act." These nonsensical views are held by both the man on the street and some in the intelligentsia. It remains to be seen whether the pitilessly aggressive statements by Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda spokesman Sulaiman Abu Ghaith will erase such beliefs among the Muslim public.
Those individuals who did accept the culpability of the Arab perpetrators usually drew a comparison between the terror attacks on America and shortsighted, unjust American policies that have alienated and antagonized most of the rising social classes in the region. In short, they believed America has reaped what it sowed.
Most of the participants, who represent the pulse of mainstream Muslim public opinion, strongly cautioned their governments against joining the American coalition on terrorism and warned that people would oppose any sustained military assault on a Muslim country, including Afghanistan.
To date, the United States' case for war against terrorist networks has not been effectively communicated to Arabs and Muslims. America's representatives abroad have yet to engage civil society leaders and opinion makers in the Muslim world and fully explain the nature and purpose of Washington's strategy. The earlier ambivalence of Arab and Muslim governments, Egypt and Saudi Arabia in particular, to participate aggressively in the American campaign against terrorism stems from a legitimate fear that an escalation of hostilities would incense their citizens and undermine their political stability. Now, after the start of military action, American emissaries will need to convince all Arabs and Muslims, not only their governments, that Muslim societies must not allow a few fanatics to commandeer their political future. 
As this war continues, the United States cannot afford to neglect the painful and frustrating, but critical, work of building bridges to Muslim peoples and societies. This task requires cultural sensitivity, understanding and full political and economic engagement with the Muslim world.
American diplomats, even on the eve of war, have remained distracted and distant from the Muslim public. American embassies in the Middle East have long been impenetrable castles separated from the local communities. American ambassadors hardly venture out to participate and interact with the intellectual and cultural life in those countries. The United States would have benefitted from investing in an Arabic-language media outlet similar to that of the BBC World Service. As matters stand, the video statement by Osama bin Laden -- that the events of Sept. 11 and afterward "have divided the world into two parts, a part that espouses faith and is devoid of hypocrisy, and an infidel part, may God protect us from it" -- comes as a culmination of years of anti-American broadcasts. 
 I t is not too late to show how important questions of justice have been and will be in American foreign policy. The United States needs to invest directly in Middle Eastern civil societies to improve governance, education, health and quality of life. The challenge in gaining greater understanding in those societies will not be easy, but American diplomats can help by overcoming their own bunker mentality. The use of force against the Taliban and Osama bin Laden was unavoidable given the terrorist threat. But the long-term aim of reducing anti-American fervor among Islamic extremists will still best be achieved by directly engaging with the Muslim people. The military response that began yesterday only makes the hard nonmilitary work, in the next weeks and years, more necessary than ever.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TERRORISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); TALIBAN (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); POLITICS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; ISLAM; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) GERGES, FAWAZ A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (92%); SOUTH CENTRAL ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



281 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: STOCK MARKETS; 
Investors Expected to Take Raids in Stride

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON with MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Investors will enter unfamiliar territory as stock markets in the United States and around the world open this morning for trading.
 Asian stocks markets fell Monday morning, after the attack in Afghanistan. In Hong Kong, stocks were trading down 2.6 percent, and in South Korea a principal stock index fell 2.3 percent. 
 In the short term, a violent market reaction to yesterday's strike against Afghanistan is unlikely. The military action by the United States and Britain was widely anticipated, so analysts do not expect investors to panic today. But a major rally, like the one that followed the beginning of American bombing in the Persian Gulf war a decade ago, also appears to be a long shot. 
After falling sharply when trading resumed the week after the attacks of Sept. 11, stocks in the United States have gained back most of their losses, with most foreign markets also rebounding. A further rally would put markets higher than they were before Sept. 11, which analysts and investors consider unlikely given the uncertainty and disruption that the terrorist attacks generated.
"The markets have priced in and do expect a U.S. response," said David G. Dietze, president of Point View Financial Services, a money management firm, adding, "The markets have been looking very favorably on the way the U.S. has been building a strong, broad-based coalition."
Stock markets in the United States are open today, but bond markets are closed for Columbus Day. The Japanese stock market is also closed for a holiday. In early trading, most Australian and South Korean markets were slightly lower. 
The longer-term outlook may be less rosy. The history of the 20th century shows that the impact of military action on the markets and the economy depends on how well the United States fares in battle. And this conflict, which has already taken the lives of thousands of American civilians, is unlike any other the United States has waged.
If the United States and its allies can quickly oust the Taliban, capture Osama bin Laden, and uproot his terrorist network, the odds of a deep recession will drop significantly. A victory will help consumer and business confidence, making companies more willing to invest and consumers more ready to spend. The travel industry, hard-hit, might see the greatest gains. "A lot depends on the result of the attack," said Jack Shaughnessy, chief investment officer for Advest. 
If the United States overcomes the Taliban, stocks may rally strongly, especially because the policy makers are all taking action to aid the economy, he said. The Fed has cut interest rates nine times this year, with more cuts likely, while lawmakers and the president are working on tax cuts and new spending.
But if the terrorists mount more attacks against the United States, the economy and investor confidence could be dealt a heavy blow. A videotaped statement by Mr. Bin Laden released yesterday raised fears of more attacks. 
During the 20th century, stock markets had widely varying responses to war. In 1914, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 9.7 percent in the two days after World War I began on July 28, and the New York Stock Exchange was then closed for more than four months. But the early stages of the war proved to be a boon for American business, and the Dow rose 81.5 percent in 1915.
When Hitler invaded Poland on Sept. 1, 1939, prompting Britain and France to declare war, investors hoped that American businesses would again benefit from conflict in Europe, and United States stock markets rose strongly. Within a week, the Dow was up 11.6 percent.
But as Hitler's armies rampaged through Europe in 1940 and 1941, investors grew increasingly worried that the United States would be drawn into the conflict. By the end of November 1941, the Dow had fallen 25 percent from its high of 1939.
Stocks fell further after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. But as war's tide turned, investors grew bullish. Over the next three years, the Dow nearly doubled.
The Persian Gulf war, which ended in a military victory for the United States and its allies, also helped stock markets. Markets rallied in January 1991, when the United States and its allies began bombing Iraq, and continued their gains throughout the year. The Dow ended 1991 with a gain of 20.3 percent, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 26.3 percent.
But the Vietnam War had a far different impact on stock markets and the economy. Heavy government spending on the military fueled inflation in the late 1960's, and as the war dragged on and domestic dissent worsened, markets stagnated. The decade ending Dec. 31, 1974, was one of the worst 10-year stretches for stocks since the Depression, with the Dow falling 36.4 percent and the S.& P. down 19.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BONDS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); DESERT STORM (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); AIRLINES (62%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) TERRORISM; STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) BERENSON, ALEX; BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); HONG KONG (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



282 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Plows Ahead in Changed Political Landscape 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican businessman running for mayor, has been caught in the long shadow of the Democratic runoff between Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer ever since the primary two weeks ago.
 But Mr. Bloomberg has been putting his time outside the spotlight to strategic use. He has been methodically creating an image as an alternative to the Democrats. 
 As Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer poke and nitpick each other, Mr. Bloomberg has been laying the cornerstones for his campaign against the eventual nominee. Though public opinion polls suggest he would lose to either of the Democrats in November, Mr. Bloomberg seems unworried by the odds with a month still to go and encouraged by the changed political landscape since the attack on the World Trade Center. 
After taking his advertisements off the air for two weeks because of the events of Sept. 11, Mr. Bloomberg has resumed his buying spree, spending about $1 million a week on new television spots that have been produced and written with the terrorism and its aftermath in mind.
"In a challenging news environment like New York is now, Bloomberg can't afford to let all of the attention go to the other two candidates," said Ken Goldstein, director of the Wisconsin Advertising Project at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, which analyzes political advertising. "The Democrats have a contested election in a week, and Bloomberg is still spending more than they are."
In both the advertisements and campaign appearances, Mr. Bloomberg has sought to position himself as a nonpolitician who, by inference, is immune to the internecine rivalries on display in the Democratic contest, and who is most likely to do what is right for the city. 
Mr. Bloomberg's aides suggest that each new barb exchanged between Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer can only enhance Mr. Bloomberg's stature. The Democrats dismiss the idea, saying all will be forgotten after the runoff. In keeping with the theme of being above it all, Mr. Bloomberg rarely answers questions about his rivals and steadfastly refuses to criticize them.
"I am not a person to point out differences," he said last week. "I try in my personal life and with my company, and will do it as mayor, to point out similarities rather than differences. I think it is unhelpful in relationships to focus on the negatives."
In tandem, Mr. Bloomberg has moved to highlight his record as a successful and well-connected businessman.
Even more so than before the Republican primary, he has portrayed himself as someone in the know, who is accustomed to being at the helm of a big ship in both calm and troubled waters. He has even taken to dropping hints during news conferences that he has a list of heavy-hitting business leaders ready to step into top government posts in a Bloomberg administration.
As a result, Mr. Bloomberg's big media company, Bloomberg L.P., has assumed a more obvious presence in the campaign. Just a few weeks ago, when he was being criticized for a booklet of off-color jokes given to him by some employees at the company, Mr. Bloomberg told reporters that he no longer runs the company and that he rarely even visits its headquarters.
Now, a new advertisement shows him hard at work at his desk and it speaks almost exclusively about his business accomplishments. His daily schedule sometimes includes company-related events and his campaign aides keep a tally of the company's good deeds in the wake of the World Trade Center destruction (among them, providing 150,000 free meals for volunteers and others working at the site).
From a meeting with President Bush last week to an appearance before the Breast Cancer Research Foundation with its founder Evelyn H. Lauder, Mr. Bloomberg has played the part of chief executive officer as much as aspiring mayor. Mr. Bloomberg said that his candidacy came up only in passing during his 10 minutes with Mr. Bush.
"We talked about the needs of New York City and how I thought the federal government could help," said Mr. Bloomberg, who is the majority owner of Bloomberg L.P. but has handed off the day-to-day job of operating the company to run mayor. "I thanked him for the help to date, as a private citizen."
Just as Mr. Bush ran a campaign against the political establishment in Washington, Mr. Bloomberg appears to have pinned his mayoral hopes on a strategy that places a premium on his status as a political outsider. Though the underpinnings of the strategy are not new, Mr. Bloomberg is counting on the central theme finding new resonance with an electorate less tolerant of politics-as-usual and deeply worried about the city's economic future. 
"In these tough times, New York City needs a leader, not a politician," the announcer concludes in one of three new advertisements broadcast since Sept. 26 by Mr. Bloomberg.
Mr. Bloomberg says in another of them, "The bottom line: not just talk and promises, but results."
All of the advertisements focus extensively on the aftermath of the terrorist attacks and feature Mr. Bloomberg as calm, composed and even-handed in addressing the problems of running the city.
"The next mayor must lift our spirits, focus on rebuilding our city, every borough, all New Yorkers," Mr. Bloomberg says in one of them.
In his first week back on television, beginning Sept. 26 and ending Oct. 3, Mr. Bloomberg spent an estimated $1.2 million for 338 advertisements on the major broadcast channels, according to the Wisconsin Advertising Project. Over the same period, Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer together spent an estimated $800,000 for 282 spots, the project said.
Mr. Bloomberg's advertisements were everywhere. His spots ran during "Frasier," "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" and "Family Law." They also ran on "Monday Night Football," "Wheel of Fortune" and "Dateline NBC." And two of the new advertisements were 60 seconds instead of the usual 30 seconds, allowing them to "get out of the political box" and seem less like standard campaign pitches, according to Mr. Goldstein, who is a professor of political science. 
"The only example of a candidate who used lots of 60-second spots was George Bush in 2000," Mr. Goldstein said.
State Senator Guy J. Velella, the Bronx Republican leader who endorsed Mr. Bloomberg on Saturday, said Mr. Bloomberg was "holding his own" during the Democratic runoff on the strength of his television ads. He predicted the quality and scope of his advertising in the next month would determine Mr. Bloomberg's political fortunes on Nov. 6.
"I think TV is the key to the whole race," Mr. Velella said. "I have been in politics for 30 years, and I can tell you that in big offices like mayor, it is more and more media focused and less and less a grassroots operation."
Mr. Bloomberg's most recent advertisement seems to support the contention that his television campaign has a life of its own. The new advertisement promotes Mr. Bloomberg's economic development plan, including rebuilding Lower Manhattan.
"I have a five-borough plan to take on the crisis and begin the hard work of getting things done," Mr. Bloomberg says into the camera.
But asked about the plan during a visit to the Malcolm Shabazz Mosque in Harlem on Friday, Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that it was still in the works. He said he would release it after the Democratic runoff on Thursday, when he expects the news media will show more interest.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael R. Bloomberg is spending about $1 million a week on new television spots written with the terrorism and its aftermath in mind, emphasizing his status as a political outsider ready to lead the city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) MURPHY, DEAN E; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



283 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
Bonds and Henderson Combine to Make 2001 a Very Bad Year for the Babe

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Major League Baseball battered Babe Ruth this season. Not that the Babe should take it personally; it's just that he held so many records, he lost a bunch of them in these offensively inflationary times.
 Barry Bonds eclipsed yet another of the Babe's marks yesterday, finishing the season with an .863 slugging percentage after slugging his 73rd home run, further dwarfing Ruth's once-legendary total of 60. Ruth had held the highest slugging percentage, .847, since 1920. 
 Last week Bonds broke Ruth's season record for walks (he finished with 177), just as Rickey Henderson surpassed Ruth's career record for walks earlier in the season.
Henderson, who last week broke Ty Cobb's record for career runs, reached another milestone yesterday, his first-inning double for San Diego making him the 25th player in history to have 3,000 hits.
Lest Ruth fans become too disconsolate over his record-book erosion, he did hold onto one hitting distinction, albeit barely. In 1920 Ruth had a combined slugging percentage and on-base percentage of 1.379. Bonds, with a .515 on-base percentage, finished with a combined 1.378, showing what a remarkable performance he had. One more hit, even one more walk, would have sent Bonds past Ruth.
The only players who took a bigger beating than the Babe this year was the Texas Rangers' pitching staff. What does that have to do with anything?
Well, in a season loaded with developments mind-boggling and bizarre, the Rangers owner saved the most ludicrous development for last. He fired his general manager, whose payroll he hamstrung by overpaying by at least $100 million to sign Alex Rodriguez. Tom Hicks yesterday acknowledged Doug Melvin's contribution to the Rangers' three division championships in a four-year span, but he said, "The last two years have produced very disappointing results."
The last-place finishes that understandably disappointed Hicks were fueled by pitching. Last year the Rangers had a major league-worst 5.52 earned run average, but Hicks fell in love with Rodriguez and agreed to a contract number that only Rodriguez's agent could love -- $252 million.
Though he supported the signing, Melvin was clearly uncomfortable with it and embarrassed in the face of criticism from fellow general managers. Instead of focusing on the pitching improvements the team needed, the Rangers added another bat that they did not need. 
Rodriguez performed brilliantly, gaining career highs in home runs with 52 and runs batted in with 135. But the pitching staff was even worse than last year, finishing with a 5.73 E.R.A. So Melvin joins Johnny Oates, who resigned as manager a month into the season, as the two primary victims of the Rodriguez signing. The Rangers join Canada's two teams, Toronto and Montreal, as teams seeking new general managers. More are most likely to follow.
Melvin becomes an instant favorite to get the Blue Jays' job because he is a native of Chatham, Ontario, but he will also most likely be considered for other openings that could develop. The Yankees, for example. 
Brian Cashman, having already served a life sentence in his four-year term under George Steinbrenner, may decide to walk away and take a general managing job elsewhere. Melvin would be a natural replacement because he pitched in the Yankees' minor league system and began his front-office career with the Yankees.
Besides being saddled with a dreadful pitching staff, the Rangers had the misfortune of playing in the same division with the Seattle Mariners. Four American League teams finished with lower won-lost percentages than the Rangers, but no one finished as far back as the Rangers' 43-game deficit.
If baseball people were stunned that Bonds should break Mark McGwire's home run record only three years after he broke Roger Maris's record, here come the Mariners only three years after the Yankees set an A.L. record with 114 victories to win 116.
The only team that previously won 116 games was the 1906 Chicago Cubs, and the Mariners had a chance to break that record, too. But they lost the final game of the regular season yesterday to the Rangers, 4-3, on a ninth-inning run.
It remains to be seen if any team should come along in the next few years and eclipse the Mariners' record, just as it will be interesting to watch home run developments. After hitting No. 73 yesterday, Bonds initially said, "I think anybody can do it" when he was asked if he thought someone could eclipse his total. But in the next breath he said, "Break 73? I don't think anybody's going to do that."
Two very old records once again withstood challenges. Ichiro Suzuki of Seattle finished with 242 hits, short of George Sisler's 1920 record of 257, and Ruth's 1921 record of 457 total bases remains in the books. Luis Gonzalez of Arizona was threatening it earlier in the season but finished with 419, second to Sammy Sosa's 425.
Sosa finished with 64 home runs and 160 runs batted in, the third most R.B.I. ever produced by a National League hitter.
Bonds, Sosa, Gonzalez and Rodriguez were the members of the 50-homer club.
Jose Hernandez did not break the strikeout record. He finished with 185, four short of the record Bobby Bonds, Barry's father, set in 1970. But Hernandez lost a chance for the record because Davey Lopes, the Milwaukee manager, opted not to play him in the final two games.
The Brewers, however, became the first team in major league history to have more strikeouts (1,399) than hits (1,378). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%) BASEBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); TEXAS RANGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%) TEXAS RANGERS; SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS; SAN DIEGO PADRES 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (79%) CHASS, MURRAY; BONDS, BARRY; HENDERSON, RICKEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (50%) ONTARIO, CANADA (69%); TEXAS, USA (69%); QUEBEC, CANADA (50%) CANADA (69%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



284 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: FRONT-LINE ALLY; 
Pakistan's Leader Takes Steps to Solidify Control Ahead of U.S. Air Raids

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: QUETTA, Pakistan, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, moved swiftly today to tighten his grip on the country's military by promoting two generals and restricting political opposition by placing a militant cleric under house arrest.
 The actions, coming hours before the air campaign began on Afghanistan, indicated that General Musharraf knew the timing of the American-British strikes, and wanted to ensure as much control as possible over the potentially volatile reaction within Pakistan. 
 In Islamabad, the capital, the ambassador of Afghanistan's Taliban rulers denounced the strikes as a terrorist act and said Afghans would be united in their resistance. 
"Afghanistan will rise against the new colonialists," said Ambassador Abdul Salam Zaeef. "We tried hard to find a solution to the problem, but America chose the path of power and arrogance. We cannot hand over Osama to America."
Pakistan, the only nation that still recognizes the Taliban government, was unsuccessful in efforts to broker a deal for the Afghan rulers to turn over Osama bin Laden, as the United States had demanded.
"We regret that diplomatic efforts to convince the Taliban leadership to respond to the international demands did not succeed and now military action has started against the Taliban regime," a Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokesman said. 
Muslim leaders across Pakistan swiftly denounced the attacks, calling them brutal and unwarranted. But there were few demonstrations and no reports of violence following the strikes, which occurred at about 9:30 p.m. local time. 
Here in Quetta, there were reports that refugees fleeing from Afghanistan included senior Taliban officials.
According to the Pakistan correspondent for the Far Eastern Economic Review, a publication based in Hong Kong, the mayor of the Afghan city of Kandahar, the spiritual center of the Taliban, as well as Islamic judges and members of the religious police, were among the defectors mixing with ordinary refugees.
Pakistani police said they were braced for anti-American protests on Monday, possibly starting after morning prayers in the country's mosques.
The government tried to reduce the chances of widespread unrest by placing Mullah Fazlur Rehman, the leader of the hard-line Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam political party, under house arrest. 
An advocate of a Taliban-style Islamic state in Pakistan, he was accused of taking someone carrying a rifle to an anti-American demonstration on Friday. But Pakistani officials said the government's chief concern was that Mullah Rehman was trying to incite mutiny in the armed forces.
General Musharraf's effort to strengthen his control over the military began on Saturday, when he extended his own three-year tenure as chief of the army staff, a position he had been required by law to relinquish earlier this month.
The next step came today with the promotion of two of his allies to top positions. Lt. Gen. Muhammad Aziz Khan, who played the crucial role in the 1999 military coup that brought General Musharraf to power, was made a full general and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff.
General Khan is regarded in some circles as an Islamist, and his promotion was seen as a way of both satisfying Islamic elements within the military and removing someone with Islamic leanings from direct control of troops.
Lt. Gen. Muhammad Yousuf, a longtime ally of General Musharraf and a pro-Western voice in the military, was also promoted to full general and made deputy chief of the army staff.
The promotions open the way for a broader reshuffle in Pakistan's powerful military. Analysts said that General Musharraf is building a more American-oriented senior staff in order to shore up support for the alliance with the United States against Afghanistan.
General Musharraf's early decision to back the American effort against the Taliban and Mr. bin Laden, whom the movement has sheltered for years, threatened to divide the nation.
In the first days after the decision, thousands of protesters took to the streets across the country, though the demonstrations have been smaller in recent days.
In the eastern Pakistan city of Lahore, a group of Muslim clerics met in special session to discuss the Afghanistan crisis after they learned of the attack. They condemned the strikes and said Americans now faced a "highly critical situation" in the Muslim world.
About 150 people gathered spontaneously in the Aabpara marketplace in Islamabad and chanted slogans in praise of Mr. bin Laden, but they dispersed after the police arrived in the area.
Reaction was mostly muted anger here in Quetta, a Taliban stronghold about 60 miles from the Afghan border and home to the families of several Taliban leaders.
Earlier in the day, Pakistani authorities began clearing the way for the American warplanes. The Civil Aviation Authority closed the airspace along a corridor into Afghanistan from the Arabian Sea and restricted any civilian aircraft to an altitude below 22,000 feet in the hopes of avoiding encounters with military planes.
Joint military-civilian airports in the southern cities of Pasni, Jiwani and Turbat were closed and civilian flights were restricted elsewhere in the country, Pakistan authorities said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Peshawar, Pakistanis listen to news of the air raids. General Musharraf promoted two generals and placed a cleric under house arrest. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HOUSE ARREST (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); COUPS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); REFUGEES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MISSING PERSONS (65%); RIOTS (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); HONG KONG (79%) PAKISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



285 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Clashes Grow Sharper in Final 2 Primary Debates 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
In back-to-back caustic and testy debates, Fernando Ferrer and Mark Green challenged each other's credibility yesterday, as Mr. Green said Mr. Ferrer had flip-flopped on abortion and the death penalty, and Mr. Ferrer disparaged Mr. Green for aligning himself with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's attempt to extend his term.
 With four days left before the Democratic mayoral primary runoff on Thursday, and polls showing those two Democrats in a dead heat, Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer clashed with an intensity that had not before been seen in this campaign for mayor. 
 Mr. Green said Mr. Ferrer had failed to offer a plan on how he would lead New York City in recovering from the attack on the World Trade Center. He said one of the few rebuilding proposals Mr. Ferrer had made -- to disperse some of the office space that had been in Lower Manhattan to the other boroughs -- was "wrong and naive." 
"That's an ill-conceived suggestion," Mr. Green said. "They attacked there. That's where we have to rebuild -- not because of downtown Manhattan but to help and rescue the whole city."
Mr. Ferrer attacked Mr. Green for having agreed to Mr. Giuliani's attempt to extend his term up to three months, as a way of easing the transition at City Hall. "You have to do a gut check here, and that's what it was for me," he said.
And he dismissed Mr. Green's criticism about his response to the World Trade Center as a political attack by a candidate who, Mr. Ferrer asserted, saw his support slipping "and poll numbers dropping."
"To compare our ideas is fine," Mr. Ferrer said. "To denigrate ideas and say, 'Mine's a big idea and yours is a little idea,' is not only beside the point, it's frankly apart from what there should be in this debate, Mark." 
At that, Mr. Green turned to face Mr. Ferrer, seated in a chair next to him at WNBC-TV studio at Rockefeller Center 
"It's not beside the point -- it IS the point," Mr. Green said. "The greatest municipal crisis that we or any city has faced should test who responded well and who didn't." He added that "to say right away that, 'Gee, I was the borough president in the Bronx when there was rubble there,' " showed a "lack of appreciation of the magnitude of the economic impact, the safety impact and the federal impact."
One hour after the two men shook hands at the conclusion of their debate on WABC-TV, President Bush announced the launching of air attacks by the United States and Britain. Mr. Ferrer suspended the rest of his campaign events, as aides to both Democrats contemplated another week in this long campaign in which anything they did or said would be dwarfed by global events.
In tone and substance, the two debates -- a punchy and fast-flowing 30-minute appearance moderated by Gabe Pressman on WNBC, followed by a 60-minute session on WABC -- were the latest evidence of how quickly and dramatically the tenor of the contest had changed. The two men interrupted each other, glowered at each other and mocked each other with sharply sarcastic asides. At times, their encounters sounded more like a debate to be high school class president than to be the next mayor of New York.
"If you can't take the heat, you shouldn't be in the debate," Mr. Green snapped. 
Mr. Ferrer retorted: "Well Mark, I can certainly take the heat, but I'm not going to allow you to stand there and distort." And at another point, Mr. Ferrer was talking about rebuilding New York, and, speaking slowly, observed: "You know, we live in the 21st century, the communications age."
"That's true," Mr. Green said sarcastically.
Mr. Ferrer frowned. "Forgive me: I'd like to finish, Mark," he said.
After the candidates' first debate on Tuesday, some of Mr. Green's supporters expressed concern that Mr. Green, the public advocate, had shied away from engaging Mr. Ferrer, and they urged him to be more aggressive in drawing contrasts with his opponent. And that he did, repeatedly criticizing Mr. Ferrer, who responded by, in effect, attacking Mr. Green for attacking him.
"That's the the fifth attack that Mark is -- and I'm keeping score here -- from a fellow who promised primary night that he would not make negative attacks," Mr. Ferrer said wearily. Mr. Green had just asserted that Mr. Ferrer had switched his position so that he now said he opposed restrictions on late-term abortion and supported a moratorium on the death penalty.
Mr. Green insisted that he was not attacking Mr. Ferrer, but emphasizing differences between the two, which he asserted was a traditional form of political campaigning.
At both the NBC and ABC debates, Mr. Ferrer was asked about his apparent shift in position on the death penalty and on abortion restrictions between 1997, when he was running to win the Democratic nomination to challenge Mr. Giuliani, and presented himself as a moderate, and this year, when he has been running on the left.
Early in 1997, Mr. Ferrer switched his position from opposing the death penalty to supporting it. At the start of this campaign, Mr. Ferrer announced that he now supported a moratorium on executions, citing recent evidence that innocent people were being put to death.
At the WABC debate, he told a questioner that voters should not be confused. "I am a supporter of capital punishment," he said. "I also support the moratorium." 
On abortion, in his last campaign, he described late-term abortions as "barbaric," and added: "Every time a mother hiccups, that's no reason to abort a child." Mr. Ferrer said yesterday that notwithstanding those comments, he had always supported abortion rights.
"I haven't changed my position on it," he said, adding: "I am 100 percent pro-choice, have been my whole public life."
Mr. Green did not accept that assertion. "You're allowed to change your mind," he said. "But you've got to be honest with people when you do it. To say you didn't change your mind raises questions about your veracity on this issue."
He added: "You flip-flopped on choice and death and you should admit it." 
Mr. Ferrer shot back: "That's ridiculous."
The Bronx borough president then switched the subject to Mr. Green's support of Mr. Giuliani, asserting that Mr. Green had called him up soon after the mayor proposed extending his term. Mr. Ferrer said Mr. Green proposed that the two men stand together and oppose Mr. Giuliani. He suggested that Mr. Green then double-crossed him by backing Mr. Giuliani's position. Mr. Green denied that.
While Mr. Ferrer continued to insist that extending the mayor's term might still be considered when the Legislature meets later this month, Mr. Green declared that Albany had rejected the idea and that the issue was moot. Late yesterday, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who has said many Assembly Democrats opposed the extension but that it could be considered after the runoff, said the proposal was now dead.
Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green also tussled over the influence of the Rev. Al Sharpton, who has endorsed Mr. Ferrer. Mr. Ferrer expressed incredulity at Mr. Green's assertion that he had not sought Mr. Sharpton's support, leading to this exchange.
Mr. Ferrer: "Who are you trying to kid, Mark? I mean ----"
Mr. Green: "Stop acting, Freddy. I didn't ask for his support."
Mr. Ferrer: "Who are you trying to kid? You took them out to the theater, you had them over at your apartment for breakfast ----"
Mr. Green: "Did I ask him for his support?"
Mr. Ferrer: "You courted his support."
Mr. Green: "Freddy, you're not telling the truth."
Finally, Mr. Green said that he "didn't seek it the way you did," leading to another explosion between the two men. "Now you're trying to use it against me in the most cynical and divisive way," Mr. Ferrer said.
"Hold it: I didn't raise Sharpton: You did," Mr. Green said, adding: "You said I sought it. It's untrue. I'm going to call you on it."
By this point, Mr. Pressman, looking a bit like an exasperated viewer at a tennis match, urged his guests to move on to another topic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer, left, and Mark Green found little to agree about in two mayoral debates yesterday. The two are to meet in a primary runoff on Thursday, and the tenor of their exchanges reflected the approaching vote. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); ABORTION (77%); TERM LIMITS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TERRORISM (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; DEBATING; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



286 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TONY BLAIR; 
In His Own Words

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from a speech yesterday by Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain about his country's role in the attacks on Afghanistan, as recorded by The New York Times:

"The military action we are taking will be targeted against places we know to be involved in the Al Qaeda network of terror or against the military apparatus of the Taliban. This military plan has been put together mindful of our determination to do all we humanly can to avoid civilian casualties. I cannot disclose, obviously, how long this action will last, but we will act with reason and resolve. We have set the objectives to eradicate Osama bin Laden's network of terror and to take action against the Taliban regime that is sponsoring him.
 As to the precise British involvement, I can confirm that last Wednesday the United States government made a specific request that a number of U.K. military assets be used in the operation which has now begun, and I gave authority for these assets to be deployed. 
They include the base at Diego Garcia, reconnaissance and other aircraft, and missile-firing submarines. The missile-firing submarines are in use tonight; the air assets will be available for use in the coming days.
The United States are obviously providing the bulk of the force required in leading this operation, but this is an international effort. As well as the U.K., France, Germany, Australia and Canada have also committed themselves to take part in it. 
On the diplomatic and political front, in the time I've been prime minister, I cannot recall a situation that has commanded so quickly such a powerful coalition of support, and not just from those countries involved in military action, but from many others in all parts of the world. That coalition has, I believe, strengthened, not weakened, in the 26 days since the atrocity occurred. And this is in no small measure due to the statesmanship of President Bush, to whom I pay tribute tonight. The world understands that whilst, of course, there are dangers in action, the dangers of inaction are far, far greater: the threat of further such outrages, the threat to our economies, the threat to the stability of the world. On the humanitarian front, we are assembling a coalition of support for refugees in and outside Afghanistan, which is as vital as the military coalition. Even before Sept. 11, four million Afghans were on the move. There are two million refugees in Pakistan and one and a half million in Iran."

A full transcript of Tony Blair's remarks is available from The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/2001/10/07/international/ 07BLAIR-TEXT.html

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain yesterday with, from left, the foreign minister, Jack Straw; the deputy prime minister, John Prescott; and the defense minister, Geoff Hoon. In a speech to the nation, Mr. Blair said American officials had requested British support in the attack. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HIJACKING (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); REFUGEES (67%); AIRLINES (66%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); JACK STRAW (58%) BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001 



287 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA; 
Guggenheims Offer Novelty In Las Vegas

BYLINE:  By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
This city already has an Eiffel Tower, an Empire State Building and even an indoor version of the Grand Canal of Venice. So why not its own Guggenheim Museum? After all, New York, Venice and Bilbao each have one, as does Berlin, in a way.
 When it first arose about a year ago, the idea of a Guggenheim in Las Vegas -- a city known more for its kitsch than its art -- set off a round of clucking about the future of museums in America, about the blurring of lines between commerce and art, between culture and entertainment. If a major New York cultural institution opens in Las Vegas, charging tourists and gamblers $15 admission, would Disneyland be the next stop? 
 The debate ended with the opening of not one but two museums at the gargantuan 3,036-room Venetian Resort-Hotel-Casino. First there is a soaring 63,700-square-foot exhibition hall -- known as the Guggenheim Las Vegas -- designed by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas and inaugurated with the Guggenheim's signature "Art of the Motorcycle" exhibition. It was installed here by Frank Gehry, a favorite architect of the museum, with shiny swirls of stainless steel and sheets of chain-link curtains. 
And then in the lobby of the Venetian, just off the grand entranceway with its faux Tiepolo ceilings, is the smaller Hermitage Guggenheim Museum, a novel joint venture with the illustrious State Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg, Russia. There, in a 7,600-square-foot space also designed by Mr. Koolhaas, with walls of reddish-brown Cor-Ten steel, hang (by way of powerful magnets) 45 paintings by Matisse, Picasso, Gauguin, Cezanne and other Impressionist and early Modern artists, drawn from the collections of the two museums.
Both museums are open from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m., and the Hermitage Guggenheim offers discounts to the young, charging $11 for students and $7 for those 6 to 12. Children under 6 are free.
Thomas Krens, director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and champion of its global ambitions, arrived in town Thursday on his own motorcycle. He said Mr. Koolhaas was chosen in part because his stern, rational aesthetic is the antithesis of Las Vegas's native flamboyance.
"In Bilbao we built an exuberant building in an industrial environment," Mr. Krens said of the acclaimed Guggenheim branch designed by Mr. Gehry. "This is an exuberant landscape, so we were looking for a more industrial building."
In six months the exhibition at the Guggenheim Hermitage will be replaced with other works from one or both of the two museums or perhaps from some other museum altogether. The concept here is novel and elastic, and for that reason a fitting response to the chameleonlike Las Vegas landscape.
David Hickey, an art critic and professor at the University of Nevada, called the Guggenheim's appearance here a logical next step for a museum after its extravaganza exhibition last spring of clothes by the Italian designer Giorgio Armani. That show was criticized for its commercial overtones.
"This just theatricalizes what was already going on at cultural institutions in New York," Mr. Hickey said. "I have no problem with any of it. But it's nothing that anybody here thought up."
The best news for Las Vegas, Mr. Hickey said, will be the impact of good art in an environment that does not really know what that is. "In general I believe that the good drives out the bad," he said. "You put a Jackson Pollock in your office, and you have to redecorate your office."
There have been other attempts to bring high culture to this city, and some at times have been successful. The gallery at the Bellagio Hotel begun by Steve Wynn, the casino magnate, was later filled by paintings from the Phillips Collection in Washington and most recently by the entertainer Steve Martin's collection. But it has been closed indefinitely, in part because of the economic blow felt here after the Sept. 11 attacks. In the first two weeks after the terrorism, the number of visitors to Las Vegas fell off substantially, resulting in layoffs that have already exceeded 10,000.
In the week after the attack there was some doubt about whether the Guggenheim Hermitage Museum could open as planned. In St. Petersburg and Moscow top officials weighed the risks and difficulties of transporting national treasures across the United States at a time of crisis against the value of forging ahead with a new relationship.
"It was a big decision," Culture Minister Mikhail Shvydkoi said. "But we understood we had to do it. At times like these, military cooperation is not enough. Now more than ever Russia must show that she is part of the civilization that is under attack by the terrorists."
The last of the Russian shipments -- deliberately distributed among five planes for security reasons -- arrived only on Tuesday night, just in time for a Friday opening. In the meantime ceremonies were toned down as the Russian contingent brought along ballet dancers and choral singers but left behind dance troupes of Cossacks and Gypsies whose boisterousness suddenly seemed inappropriate.
Both Mr. Shvydkoi and Dr. Mikhail B. Piotrovsky, director of the State Hermitage Museum, said they were somewhat puzzled by the criticism both here and at home that a Las Vegas location was somehow beneath the dignity of a museum started by Catherine the Great.
"We keep hearing a lot of criticism that this is somehow too commercial," Mr. Shvydkoi said. "But I think that shows a lack of understanding. What is the difference between an exhibit of paintings at Gorky Park, or Park of Culture, as it is called, and an exhibit in Las Vegas, which is a bit like America's own Park of Culture?"
"A Picasso doesn't become any worse for being in Las Vegas," he said. "And maybe the people who see it will become better."
For his part Dr. Piotrovsky said he found himself defending Las Vegas to his American friends. "This is America, while New York is really more a European city" he said, "Las Vegas is a big new thing that was invented here. It is a postmodernist city, if you define postmodernism as a fake that understands that it is fake."
Dr. Piotrovsky noted that revenue from the Las Vegas exhibition would go toward the Hermitage's ambitious $150 million expansion plan and not toward its modest but strained $14 million operating budget.
Dr. Piotrovsky cited initiatives taken at the Hermitage, including an expanding list of traveling exhibitions, permanent collections at Somerset House in London and one planned later for Amsterdam as well as a host of ventures in cyberspace.
But he said the Hermitage had proved resistant to the traditional moneymaking notions, or as he put it, "Shops, shops, cafes and more shops: our building just rejects them."
"Everybody says Tom Krens is too commercial," he said. "But all museums are commercial. This is just a more modern way to get money, and we definitely need money."
The financial arrangement for their joint museum is relatively simple. The Venetian has invested $25 million to $30 million to build the two museums and to install the motorcycle show. The Guggenheim will rent the larger hall, and both museums will rent the smaller lobby space and split other costs and profits.
There is no knowing how well they will do in a city that is so dedicated to popular culture. But the experience of the Bellagio gallery, where the Phillips Collection netted $1 million with a six-month exhibition, and other indicators suggest that they could draw thousands of visitors a day.
Most local experts predict that this venture will endure. "They are in it for the long haul," said Jerry A. Schefcik, director of the Donna Beam Fine Art Gallery at the University of Nevada. "I often used to wonder what it would take to bring a cultural institution like this to town, and I understood that there would have to be a casino involved because ultimately, we are a one-horse town."
Robert G. Goldstein, president of the Venetian, said: "My belief is that it will succeed. Any product attracts the audience it deserves. This will attract a mass audience, it's that good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Venetian Resort-Hotel-Casino opened its two Guggenheim museums to the public on Sunday after press previews last week. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CASINOS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); RESORTS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: VENETIAN RESORT HOTEL CASINO (LAS VEGAS, NEV); GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (LAS VEGAS); HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG); HERMITAGE GUGGENHEIM (LAS VEGAS) 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) NEVADA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



288 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop In Europe But Recover 

BYLINE:  BySUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
European stocks recovered from early declines today, after investors were heartened by a steadier opening on Wall Street.
 Trading was calm across the Continent after the onset of American and British strikes against Afghanistan. "The Bush administration has done a good job of telling people that this will not be a weekend war," said G. Scott Clemons, who manages some $750 million in European equities for Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. The American-led bombing campaign "was so well telegraphed, it's not surprising to see the market hold its own." 
 The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of shares of 50 European companies recovered from a drop of 116.81 points, to close down just 0.86 of a point to 3,384.19. Markets in Frankfurt, Paris, Milan, Madrid, Amsterdam and Stockholm closed higher after initial declines. In London, the benchmark Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 shares recovered from a low of 4,900.7, to close down 0.06 percent to 5,032.7.
But the relative strength of Europe's leading exchanges masked a jitteriness among investors, who feared a retaliation.
"There is some nervousness, but we have spent the past four weeks getting used to the idea of some action," said Clive Beagles, who helps trade some $20 billion in equities for Newton Investment Management in London. "Most people are surprised it has taken this long."
Britons working in the City, London's financial district, have had the last quarter-century to get used to the idea that they could become targets of I.R.A. terror campaigns. But for Americans, even those living abroad, the notion that their safety is not assured takes some acclimation. Now many investment bankers and traders are shrinking from the spotlight even more than usual.
"I would have never thought twice about being quoted in a newspaper," said one American equity trader, who works for a large investment bank in London. "But now I don't want to draw attention to myself."
Stocks of insurance companies, airlines and financial institutions were again among some of the biggest losers today, as investors continued to worry that a prolonged conflict would further derail the global economy.
The airline industry suffered a further blow today, after a Scandinavian Airlines Systems commercial jetliner carrying 104 passengers and 6 crew members collided with a small plane and crashed into a hangar at Linate airport in Milan.
And shares of HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland Group and Abbey National fell, as concerns mounted that a slowing economy might increase the rate of bankruptcies and loan defaults for their clients.
Drug makers and utilities were among some of the gainers, as investors search out what they hope will prove safe havens in a time of crisis. GlaxoSmithKline rose 0.6 percent, while AstraZeneca gained 0.5 percent.
Shares of technology and telecommunications stocks have also outperformed the broader market since the Sept. 11 attacks, mainly because they had taken such a hammering in prior months, traders said.
Also acting as a cushion for European exchanges today was the fact that many had been trading at three-year lows even before the Sept. 11 attacks. "There is decent value in European markets," Mr. Clemons, of Brown Brothers, said. "But that doesn't mean they can't go lower." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INSURANCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); HIJACKING (69%); AIRPORTS (65%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (65%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (65%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; FINANCIAL TIMES-STOCK EXCHANGE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (80%); NEWTON INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (54%); SANTANDER UK PLC (51%); SAS AB (51%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (50%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (50%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (80%); RBS (LSE) (80%); RBS (AMS) (80%); SAS NOK (OSL) (51%); SAS (STO) (51%); SAS (CPH) (51%); AZN (STO) (50%); AZN (NYSE) (50%); AZN (LSE) (50%); GSK (NYSE) (50%); GSK (LSE) (50%); BIOC (EGX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



289 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Homegrown Guards 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The world's biggest security companies could be forced out of the lucrative South African market under legislation that would ban foreign ownership of such businesses.
 While the proposed law has been in the planning for months, the terrorist attacks on the United States have brought increased public attention on security here and given the matter added urgency. 
 The proposal, part of a bill scheduled for a vote this month, has outraged industry leaders and alarmed some investment experts, who say South Africa cannot afford to send such a signal to the world.
But important lawmakers from the governing African National Congress say that having multinationals in control of crucial companies in the industry is a threat to the national security of South Africa. 
Several foreign companies, including Securicor of Britain and the ADT unit of Tyco International of Exeter, N.H., have acquired subsidiaries in South Africa, where poor police service and one of the world's highest crime rates have made private security a booming business.
"This is a very sensitive industry," said Mluleki George, chairman of Parliament's committee on safety and security and principal sponsor of the proposal.
He said that many members of the police and military under apartheid had ended up in the security industry and that it would be much more difficult to monitor the personnel of companies that were in foreign hands. Critics say such fears are unfounded.
The bill, a sweeping effort to update oversight of the fast-growing industry, would require that registered security guards, their supervisors and security companies' corporate directors all be citizens or permanent residents of South Africa.
By saying at this time that the law would apply even to shareholders -- an interpretation that arose in recent weeks, during formal debate on the measure -- the legislature has aroused suspicion that it is making a backdoor move to open the industry to black entrepreneurs. None of the country's biggest security concerns have any significant black ownership, a problem the industry acknowledges and that experts say must be addressed.
But a spokesman for the Security Employers Alliance, an umbrella organization of trade groups here, says that if greater diversity is the goal, "there are other ways to bring that about."
Indeed, some say that the international interest has encouraged consolidation, which in turn could actually help diversify the business, with its handful of giants and thousands of bit players.
"The more dominated a sector is by a few companies, the easier it is to push through black empowerment," said Reg Rumney, a director at Business Map, an investment consulting firm in Johannesburg. "You can exert leverage on bigger companies. They are clear targets. How do you say to a guarding company that has three people that 25 percent need to be black?"
Mr. George said that the industry did need to diversify but denied that this motivated the proposal.
The impact could be significant, and not only in the security industry. Britain, where Securicor is based, is one of South Africa's biggest investors and an important trading partner.
Nick Sheppard, the spokesman for the British High Commission in South Africa, said the proposed law could violate a 1998 trade agreement between the countries.
"We are concerned," he said, "and we are talking to the companies about what action we should take." 
Alec Erwin, South Africa's trade minister, thinks that there are other ways to meet national security concerns, a spokesman said, and he will take up the matter this week with the minister of safety and security, who backs the foreign-ownership ban.
Representatives of ADT and Securicor did not return calls seeking comment.
South Africa's private security business is one of the few bright lights in an economy that, while it is stable, has yet to produce the amount of growth the country needs to deal with huge and deeply entrenched income inequality -- a legacy of apartheid.
With violent crime increasingly spreading to affluent white neighborhoods, demand for armed patrols has surged. The thick walls and high gates that ring many houses in Johannesburg are almost invariably emblazoned with the signs of private-security companies.
This year, Credit Suisse First Boston estimated the size of the country's security industry at $1.2 billion at current exchange rates and found that spending on security, as a percentage of gross domestic product, was 1.25 percent, the highest in the world.
While demand is projected to slow somewhat, the introduction of new technologies, in particular the integration of fire and medical protection into the packages of security services, has been seen as a key to sustaining growth. 
And experts say it is foreign concerns like ADT, a pioneer in alarm systems, that will drive the new push into security technology -- if they are not forced out.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As crime levels in South Africa remain high, private security checkpoints are increasingly becoming common at the entrances of neighborhoods in places like Sandton, an affluent suburb of Johannesburg. (Joao Silva for The New York Times); A measure is being considered to ban foreign security companies. The parent of ADT, for example, is based in New Hampshire. (Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. W1); Private security guards wait for police to take two theft suspects they captured on property they were guarding in a Johannesburg suburb. (Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); POLICE FORCES (68%); POLITICS (67%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; POLICE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%) AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS; SECURIOR PLC; ADT SECURITY SERVICES 

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (94%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



290 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PORT; 
Ripples From New York Start to Subside at Baltimore Waterfront

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
First came the unexpected shipment of a couple of hundred Jaguars, originally destined for New York. Soon cruise ships whose Hudson River dock was serving as a morgue began to arrive. And just the other day, the sailing of the aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy from Newport News, Va., delayed for four hours a container ship headed here, raising the cost of unloading.
 But the commercial ripples at the port here from last month's terrorist attacks have now largely subsided, and the movement of goods is little changed from the preattack pace, according to the United States Customs Service, port officials, freight forwarders and others in the shipping business. 
 "For a period of three or four days, we handled some additional New York cargo," said David M. Thomas, general manager of operations at the 570-acre Dundalk Marine Terminal, the biggest for general cargo here, in the harbor where Francis Scott Key wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner" in 1814.
"After that," he added as he watched longshoremen simultaneously load and unload the Atlantic Concert, a container ship more than 1,000 feet long with its loading ramp down, "It's been business as usual."
To be sure, security at this port -- the nation's ninth biggest by dollar volume -- has been stepped up, some costly overtime work is still required, customers are extra vigilant about the timeliness of shipments, and the strain of more than three weeks of 12- and 13-hour shifts for customs workers still lingers.
"We pretty much doubled everybody's workload to keep the traffic moving," said Charles Bartoldus, director of the Customs Service for the port as well as for Baltimore-Washington International Airport. As a result, he said, "there was no disruption or backup in traffic flow," at least no delays or disruptions in traffic flows big or persistent enough to prompt complaints.
Robert Gould, a spokesman for the CSX Corporation, which has major railroad operations here, said, "We haven't seen any impact on our operations."
According to Mr. Thomas, whose employer is the Maryland Port Administration, trucks have spent an average of 28 minutes picking up or discharging goods and 50 minutes when doing both, unchanged from before the terrorist attacks.
The number of containers lifted on and off ships, 36 per stevedore gang an hour, is also unchanged, he said. The figures are for the port's container-only Seagirt Marine Terminal adjacent to Dundalk.
Richard Higgins, marketing director for John S. Connor Inc., one of the area's biggest freight forwarders, also found little fault with port operations in recent weeks. "We saw a little bit of a delay right after the incident," he said, but "the cargo was being handled and released by customs" with near-usual dispatch.
He said Connor's customers, including one who had two containers "bumped" when a vessel sailed without them, had asked to be informed promptly of any chance their merchandise might not be transported as scheduled. "There's a lot of just-in-time concerns," said Mr. Higgins, referring to the practice of many cost-conscious manufacturers of taking delivery of materials only a short time before they are needed.
He added that new details had been required in the documentation of shipments and that there was also "some anxiety among the employees" about coming to work. Connor, along with the Maryland Port Administration, is housed in the heart of downtown in Baltimore's World Trade Center, which has been subjected to multiple evacuations and has more than once put in place extremely tight security measures.
 On Oct. 5, the Coast Guard began requiring 96 hours' notice of ship arrivals instead of 24 hours, giving various agencies more time to plan clearances. 
The slowdown in the economy this year has no doubt helped the port cope with increased post-attack security efforts, including putting goods under scrutiny that is said to be improved, but is not necessarily broader or more intense. Another factor was generally ample capacity here, the port having lost some traffic to competitors. Contracts with longshoremen here, for one thing, has long barred work in even the lightest rain.
Port and industry people credit the Customs Service with efficient redeployment of personnel in the attacks' aftermath, shifting many inspectors to the airport in support of federal marshals and replacing them with specialists who check cargo declarations and another group that classifies and values goods.
"We did better, more refined targeting" of goods selected for physical inspection, Mr. Bartoldus said, and his people paid less immediate attention to the clerical work, "which we can do after the fact."
"We kept all business cargo flowing in the port of Baltimore without disruption," Mr. Bartoldus declared. "If there is unhappiness out there, I haven't heard of it." 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about the diversion of shipping from New York to Baltimore referred incorrectly to a longshoremen's work rule. Although contracts once barred them from working in the rain, they now handle cargo in all weather.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CRUISES (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (70%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; LABOR; OVERTIME; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PORTS 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (81%); JOHN S CONNOR INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (57%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (81%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (81%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (61%)

PERSON: ;HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); BALTIMORE (MD) 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



291 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR DECLINES. The dollar fell as military strikes on Afghanistan fueled concern that economic recovery will be delayed. In New York, the dollar settled at 119.83 yen, down from 120.34 yen on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); HIJACKING (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); TERRORISM (86%) CURRENCY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (77%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



292 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
Taking a Back Seat To Unfolding Events

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Seven months ago the last time the affluent society's tastemakers convened here to think about clothes -- the Champagne that had fueled fashion's party for so long was already showing signs of running low. It was in mid-March, at the showing of the fall 2001 collections, that stock prices fell drastically enough to bring an end to the bull market and the euphoric new-economy spending that attended it. If French fashion seemed of questionable significance before that moment, it became even less justifiable as skirts resembling swatches of AstroTurf appeared on the runway while financial advisers on CNN were warning investors to put their money in recession-proof companies like those that make toothpaste. The mood was shifting, and presumably fashion would be shifting right along with it.
 No one, of course, could have anticipated then just how dramatically at variance with fashion's giddy nature the mood would turn out to be. The spring 2002 collections now under way in Paris were dreamed up long before the attacks of Sept. 11. But already they are providing a hint of just how ill-equipped fashion may be to deal with the reality of upheaval. 
 Unbeknown to anyone present at the time, the Comme des Garcons show early Sunday evening began at almost the moment the United States initiated its assault on Afghanistan. More than any other designer, Rei Kawakubo, that label's creative engine, is considered someone who thinks. Indifferent to trend, she has always seemed connected to ideas beyond the half dozen or so that keep recirculating within the insular universe of fashion. So it was disheartening to learn that what appeared to be a gesture of social engagement derived merely from the kind of whim that moves so many of fashion's lesser minds.
The models in Ms. Kawakubo's show wore their hair matted down and tucked under skintight caps that looked like early-aviation-era helmets and were made from newspaper, Le Monde's headlines in full view. The decision to style the models in this manner was reached the day before the show, suggesting that Ms. Kawakubo intended to make a statement about the extent to which the privileged classes are now inhibited by political forces beyond their control.
But after the show, Adrian Joffe, who is both the managing director of Comme des Garcons and the reticent Ms. Kawakubo's husband, stressed that there was no such idea at play. "No, no, Rei doesn't usually have a political message," Mr. Joffe explained. "She wanted to feature a small head, like a bird." Newspapers were used, he said, because the collection was a homage to white, and they are "gray and graphic and looked good with the clothes." 
As happened in a number of collections in recent days, Ms. Kawakubo's show contained feats of sculptural prowess: a dress of tiered eyelet, others that revealed an exquisite manipulation of accordion pleats. But now, more than ever, the notion of the fashion object as museum piece seems little more than a flexing of narcissistic muscle.
The collection that the Dutch team of Viktor & Rolf showed on Saturday evening featured jackets made entirely of stiff bows the size of Cornish hens. They also showed stiff collars rising up to consume heads and trousers that tiered out from midtorso to reveal three separate waistbands. All the clothes were cut in communion-dress white, which seemed merely a response to the team's all-black collection of last season. It's true that each piece in the show amounted to a magnificent display of craftsmanship, but given the new mood, how will that matter two minutes after the last model has walked down the runway? 
Unwearable runway fashion, by turns loopy or ingenious, has traditionally been justified as the means by which designers build their identities, identities they trade on to sell the shoes, cocktail dresses and doctor bags that offer their distinct but tempered fantasies of womanhood. But how many different fantasies will there be room for when actual women mostly just want to feel safe?
There was a time when the pose of sexual aggressiveness so unequivocally endorsed by Alexander McQueen's show on Saturday would have had less trouble attracting followers. Mr. McQueen drew from the realm of the bullfighting ring, stabbing his deconstructed gowns with picadors' lances from which the trains of the gowns were hung. He tore up men's suit jackets so that sleeves were sprouting from hips, and performed mind-boggling dissections of corsets, which left them worthy of inclusion in a Gray's Anatomy of Fashion, if such a compendium existed. Mr. McQueen has excelled so stupendously at the science of his work that he is uninterested in using it to make his audience feel anything.
What ultimately seemed to be motivating Mr. McQueen, now backed by Gucci, was a desire to show up the conglomerate's other young star, Nicolas Ghesquiere, who last season demonstrated little restraint in displaying his technical sophistication, using the corset as his medium.
Perhaps the problem with Parisian fashion is that it is plagued with too many designers who feel as if their gift for incision exonerates them from having to wrestle with ideas. It is hard to fathom the kind of self-imposed isolation that would lead a designer to stage an entire show to demonstrate just how many different, unpredictable ways he can cut a piece of denim. Junya Watanabe turned out one bias-cut, couture-draped, cummerbund-appended distressed denim gown after another, all to the music of Chicago and to what larger artistic or commercial purpose one will never know. 
Nor was it easy to understand why Yohji Yamamoto's show took longer to sit through than some works of Noh theater. Mr. Yamamoto invoked kimono prints to make athletic pants. He played with satin bombers, making them look like so many variations of a Members Only jacket. There is always a place for Mr. Yamamoto's quiet poetry, but sometimes you can't help feeling that life is too short.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A distressed denim wrap dress by Junya Watanabe.; Satin-trimmed suit with overcoat by the Dutch team of Viktor & Rolf.;Numeral pants with drawstring jacket by Rei Kawakubo for Comme des Garcons.;Deconstructed blazer with a ruffled skirt by Alexander McQueen.;Satin bomber jacket with kimono-print pants by Yohji Yamamoto. (Photographs by Jean-Luce Hure for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (52%) APPAREL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: VIKTOR & ROLF 

PERSON: BELLAFANTE, GINIA; WATANABE, JUNYA; KAWAKUBO, REI; MCQUEEN, ALEXANDER; YAMAMOTO, YOHJI 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



293 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ASIA; 
StocksFall, With Notable Losses in Some Muslim Lands

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Financial markets across Asia shivered today after American and British military strikes against Afghanistan. But the greatest tremors were felt in parts of Southeast Asia, where investors fled from countries with large, potentially restive Muslim populations.
 Indonesia's currency and stock market tumbled amid fears that the military action would provoke a backlash from Islamic militants. Authorities in the capital, Jakarta, deployed 3,500 police officers to keep order after a few radical Muslim groups threatened reprisals against United States citizens and companies. 
 Shares fell 3.8 percent, and Indonesia's currency, the rupiah, dropped as much as 6.4 percent.
Two other Asian countries with significant Muslim populations, the Philippines and Malaysia, also suffered market declines, though not as sharp as in Indonesia, the world's most populous Islamic nation.
"A lot of traders took the attitude 'sell everything Muslim, including Singapore,' " said William H. Overholt, chief Asian strategist at Nomura International. "The markets are overreacting to things they don't understand."
Mr. Overholt noted that Malaysia was politically stable, and that Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad had moved to mollify his country's Muslim majority by denouncing the military strikes today.
The Philippines is fighting a Muslim insurgency, Mr. Overholt noted, with the rebels based on the southern island of Mindanao. The nation's president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, has backed the American-led coalition against terrorism, even offering combat troops.
Shares in the Philippines slid 3.65 percent today, closing at their lowest level since 1991. Jitters in Manila were magnified by the bombing of two hotels in Mindanao by the Abu Sayyaf group, a radical Islamic movement.
The benchmark stock index in Hong Kong lost 2.76 percent today, while Taiwan's market fell 1.82 percent and South Korea's declined 1.15 percent. (Tokyo markets were closed for a holiday, Sports Health Day.) Analysts said that the declines were predictable and that trading was orderly.
"There was no panic," said Henry Lee, managing director of Hendale Asset Management in Hong Kong. "But the markets are looking at this differently than the gulf war because of the potential for a counterstrike."
Despite the losses in Hong Kong, analysts said that it, and other markets like South Korea, were likely to draw capital away from some in Southeast Asia because of concerns about political instability. That could widen a gap between north and south Asia that has existed since the financial crisis of 1997-98.
Hong Kong, in particular, may be seen as something of a safe haven because of its links to China, analysts said. Although China has its own problems with a restless Muslim population in the far western province of Xinjiang, it has been largely insulated from the worldwide war on terrorism.
"You're going to get a new iron curtain between countries the U.S. trusts and countries the U.S. doesn't trust," said Simon L. Ogus, chief executive of DSG Asia, an economic research firm here. "Trade and capital flows will be diverted through favored partners."
Such a distinction could badly hurt Indonesia, where anti-American sentiment has been simmering. Bands of Muslim extremists swept through hotels in the central Java city of Solo in recent weeks, looking for American visitors. Others have threatened the United States ambassador, Robert S. Gelbard.
About 200 people protested today in front of the American embassy, which was closed and guarded by 300 police officers and tanks. The embassy warned United States citizens to stay home and exercise "maximum caution."
The political tension there is coming at a particularly inopportune time. Indonesia's president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, has won respect for her economic policies, and despite a general economic slowdown, the rupiah had been strengthening. Mrs. Megawati was the first leader of a Muslim country to meet President Bush after last month's attacks, offering measured support for his campaign against terrorism.
Experts note that Islamic extremists are a tiny minority in a country of more than 200 million. But if they carry out their threats, it would persuade American companies that Indonesia is no longer a safe place and presumably choke off much of the foreign investment that is trickling into the country.
"If terrorists are seen to be operating in Indonesia, the ability of foreign capital to go there will be much reduced," said Eugene K. Galbraith, an Indonesia expert and the founder of Asiawise.com, an Internet news service. "How could foreign companies put people or operations there?"
"These events could really relegate Indonesia to permanent second-class status in the world financial community," Mr. Galbraith added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A broker on the floor of the Philippine Stock Exchange in Manila yesterday making notes on deals as stock levels fell to a 10-year low. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); HIJACKING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); BONDS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ISLAM; CURRENCY 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (54%) ;LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (57%) PHILIPPINES (97%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); MALAYSIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (77%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; PHILIPPINES; MALAYSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



294 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: PARIS DIARY; 
Refugees at the Ritz

BYLINE:  By Guy Trebay 

 BODY:
A quiet panic seems to hang in the air at the spring 2002 ready-to-wear collections in Paris, affecting even the most heedless observers of fashion's ongoing parade. It is not that the city itself has reacted with conspicuous alarm to the terrorist attacks in the United States and the allied bombing of Afghanistan. As beautiful as ever under chalky autumn skies, the city is steadfast in conforming to its pictorial cliches, and its residents to their temperamental ones. The overarching anxiety takes a subtler form.
 Despite a shaky economy, luxury suppliers remain busy. Stores as diverse as Colette, the laboriously hip "concept" boutique; Annick Goutal, the high-end French perfumer; and Hermes, supplier of status purses and power ties, have been thronged in recent days. Despite discovery of a terrorist plan to bomb the American Embassy, signs of heightened security are not overwhelming. 
 It is true that parking is sporadically suspended on the Rue du Faubourg St.-Honore, where both the embassy and the flagships for many high-end retailers are located. A fortified security force of 5,000 has been deployed to airports and national borders. Public trash cans have been sealed, metal detectors installed and bag checks made common. But these efforts can seem less prophylactic than symbolic. Tickets to fashion shows are still being bootlegged. Fanatics, of the fashion sort, are still sneaking into shows. In certain cases, stealth has been anything but necessary; on Saturday, a number of fans headed for the concert of the rhythm-and-blues singer R. Kelly accidentally wandered into Yohji Yamamoto's show, which was held in another part of the sports arena the two events shared.
Inside the catwalk shows, one finds a group of people whom recent events have marooned from significance. More than ever the fashion flock has come to resemble a small but decorative 18th-century court whose purpose in the larger scheme is far from secure. Wandering from New York to Milan and Paris like glamorous vagrants, they continue to follow the familiar circuit from five-star hotel (the Ritz, the Crillon and the Meurice) to celebrity dinner hangout (Stresa and Voltaire), although now they bypass the shoemaker Rodolphe Menudier's fabulously costly shop near the Place Vendome and seek out pharmacies that carry Cipro, the antibiotic used in the treatment of anthrax. 
"It's been like that since Milan," Sally Singer, the features editor at Vogue, said. "It's the one thing everyone's buying. You hear about a driver who knows a friend who knows a pharmacist who still has some in stock." 
The current climate has abruptly changed the fashion script, slightly souring the comic operetta atmosphere that is so much, and often so charmingly, a part of fashion's public identity. Those few retailers who made the trip to Europe now seem to view their participation mainly as a diplomatic act. Everyone knows that, even before Sept. 11, the apparel business in the United States was in trouble. "I've never seen changes as rapid and as deep and large," said Todd Slater, a retail analyst at Lazard Freres in New York, referring to second-quarter data compiled by his firm showing a decline in women's wear sales of 16 percent and in men's wear of 14 percent.
"I've been instructed not to talk about business," Kal Ruttenstein, Bloomingdale's longtime fashion director, remarked, before the start of Alexander McQueen's presentation in Paris. Still, "it's going to get worse before it gets better," Mr. Ruttenstein said. 
Collections of clothes conceived of well before Sept. 11 are suddenly subject to intensified readings. Critics ask what was meant by Mr. McQueen's theatrical, and distinctly insensitive, use of a stage set covered in smoke that billowed in ways that inevitably evoked the World Trade Center collapse? They demand to know the significance of many thoughtful designers, among them Hussein Chalayan and Junya Watanabe, choosing to present unraveled, half-torn garments that used deconstruction as their principal metaphors. 
"Tailoring didn't seem appropriate," Mr. Chalayan told Suzy Menkes, the fashion critic for the International Herald Tribune, after his showing, as if that were any kind of explanation.
But after all, fashion designers are not fortune tellers (or civics majors, for that matter). One can read meaning into the clothes without forgetting that there are times when fashion does not mean all that much. Earlier this season, just before the show cycle began in a New York that does not exist anymore, one fashion editor remarked on the enduring fascination with military camouflage cloth, a once ubiquitous fabric that, at least in the Paris of this moment, is nowhere to be found. "We live in an environment that is very safe somehow, and we are attracted by themes of military adventure because we live in anti-heroic times," Stefano Tonchi, the fashion creative director of Esquire, said only a month ago. 
He was referring, among other things, to a terrorist-inflected collection by the Belgian designer Raf Simons that took inspiration from what French Vogue, which features Mr. Simons's clothes in its October issue, called the right thing to wear on clandestine missions or in contaminated hot zones. Presumably, this was ironically intended. But that was then. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); READY TO WEAR (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); ANTHRAX (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REFUGEES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); PHARMACIES (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%) APPAREL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: TREBAY, GUY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) FRANCE (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; PARIS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



295 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lebenthal to Be Sold To MONY for $25 Million
Lebenthal & Company, a New York institution made famous by its ads extolling the virtues of tax-free municipal bonds, plans to be acquired by the MONY Group for about $25 million.
 Lebenthal will operate as a subsidiary with MONY's Advest Group, a Hartford-based brokerage firm that MONY acquired in August 2000. Alexandra Lebenthal will stay on as president and chief executive of the Lebenthal division. Shares of the MONY Group fell 78 cents, to $32.20. Page C4. 

U.S. Consumers Remain Undeterred
The bombing in Afghanistan and the threats of retaliation do not appear to have deterred Americans from continuing to return to their malls and movie complexes. B12.

The military action in Afghanistan did not touch off a drastic new plunge in air travel, airlines and travel agents said. B12.

Ads Are Shifted Again for News
For the second time in less than a month, the major television networks scrambled their advertising schedules -- moving, postponing and canceling commercials -- to cover breaking news. The maneuvering included lengthening programs, shifting a show from one network to another and calling marketer and agency executives at home to buy commercial time on short notice. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C13.

Economics of Fighting Terrorism
Given the nature of the conflict with terrorism, the economy is not likely to be revived by the developments that fueled previous wartime booms, like surging orders for tanks and airplanes or demand for workers to replace those who go off to fight. This time, the course of the economy will be determined in large part by the relative power of two opposing forces: the uncertainty that has gripped businesses, consumers and investors and government economic policy. News Analysis. B12.

Images of War Are Scarce for TV
For the second consecutive day, frustrated television executives groped unsuccessfully for images of war in Afghanistan and said the United States attack was shaping up as the least accessible in television history. B12.

A Shareholder Fight at Metromedia
The investment of John Kluge, the 87-year-old media entrepreneur, in Metromedia International Group has fallen from just less than $100 million to just less than $21 million. Some investors suspect that Mr. Kluge plans to buy out the outside shareholders while the stock is depressed and then sell the company's assets at a markup. One dissident shareholder has called for an increase in the number of outside directors to prevent Mr. Kluge from taking the company private. Market Place. C8.

A.M.D. to Introduce Latest Chip
Advanced Micro Devices will introduce today its newest microprocessor for desktop microprocessors in an effort to regain both lost ground on its rival, Intel, and momentum in a troubled chip industry. C2.

Limbaugh Says He Is Almost Deaf
Rush Limbaugh, the country's most popular talk radio host, announced to his listeners that he has suffered severe hearing loss over the last four months and is almost deaf. A14.

South Africa May Ban Some Guards
The world's biggest security companies could be forced out of the lucrative South African market under legislation that would ban foreign ownership of such businesses. The attacks on the United States have given the matter added urgency. World Business, Section W.

Swissair Resumes Half Its Flights
Swissair was operating only half its flight schedule and said it would cut 9,000 jobs as banks, creditors and shareholders wrangled over who was at fault for last week's grounding of the airline. World Business, Section W.

Glaxo Allows Generic AIDS Drugs
GlaxoSmithKline has handed over rights to its market-leading AIDS medicines in South Africa to a local generic drug company. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,067.94 down 51.83Nasdaq composite -- 1,605.95 up 0.6510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.50% ClosedThe euro -- $0.9206 up 0.0026The dollar -- 119.83 yen down 0.51 Graph tracks MONY Group share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (83%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); GOING PRIVATE (70%); AIRLINES (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AXA FINANCIAL INC (58%); METROMEDIA INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (52%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (50%); INTEL CORP (50%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (50%); AMD (FRA) (50%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



296 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Lebenthal to Be Acquired by the MONY Group 

BYLINE:  By ANN WOZENCRAFT and JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Lebenthal & Company, a New York institution made famous by its quirky ads extolling the virtues of tax-free municipal bonds, will announce today that it is being acquired by the MONY Group. 
 The boards of both companies have approved the deal, which is estimated to be worth around $25 million. 
 Lebenthal, founded in 1925, will operate as a subsidiary with MONY's Advest Group, a Hartford-based brokerage firm that MONY acquired in August 2000. The acquisition is being made using 50 percent cash and 50 percent MONY Group stock. 
Alexandra Lebenthal will stay on as president and chief executive of the Lebenthal division. She will also take on a senior management role at Advest. Her father and Lebenthal chairman, James Lebenthal, will become chairman emeritus and serve as a consultant. 
Ms. Lebenthal said that merging with Advest would allow the company to grow significantly by tapping into MONY's resources. "It's extremely difficult to run a profitable small firm in today's world with the overhead that we have and our technology needs," she said. "I think we've done a great job diversifying the business, but we're limited as a smaller player.'
Lebenthal, a municipal bond retailer, was started by Louis and Sayra Lebenthal as an odd-lot bond clearinghouse that made municipal bonds available to individual investors. Before then, municipal bonds were primarily owned by wealthy investors and institutions. 
After a stint as an entertainment reporter and television producer, James Lebenthal returned to the family business in 1967. Over the years, he made hundreds of whimsical ads, with catchy phrases like "Bonds are my babies" and "Built by Bonds," making Lebenthal a household name in New York. Typically, he introduced himself as Jim Lebenthal.
In 1995, he turned over the daily running of the firm to his daughter, Alexandra. Under her direction, the firm has expanded from its traditional base of municipal bonds to include stocks, mutual funds and portfolio management. 
While the company is small by Wall Street standards, with only 100 employees, MONY is hoping that the Lebenthal brand name will lure investors. "Lebenthal is very well respected and we want to take advantage of that brand name," said Michael I. Roth, MONY's chairman and chief executive since 1993.
Since becoming a public company in 1998, MONY has been trying to increase its size and broaden its array of products and services. Lebenthal will be its fifth acquisition. In February 2001, MONY purchased Matrix, a small mergers-and-acquisitions specialist based in Richmond, Va., that works with deals valued from $25 million to $200 million. 
For most of its 158-year history, MONY has concentrated on life insurance. But now 60 percent of its operating income is from commissions and fees on mutual funds, securities transactions, investment banking and annuities, which are similar to mutual funds but include an insurance feature.
"We were interested in growing our retail bond business," said Grant W. Kurtz, the chief executive of MONY's Advest unit. 
Mr. Kurtz said Advest planned to move its municipal bond operation into Lebenthal's offices. He said none of Lebenthal's 100 employees would lose their jobs immediately, but that eventually less than 10 jobs would be eliminated. Advest announced in June that it was cutting 150 of its 1,800 positions.
Ms. Lebenthal has been outspoken about the lack of progress women have made on Wall Street. During her tenure, Lebenthal has made a concerted effort to reach out to women and younger investors. In her new role at Advest, Ms. Lebenthal said she planned to continue her focus on women investors by starting a Women's Initiative that will focus on investors of all income groups.
"We need women in all income brackets to feel that their money is important and that it's the same color as men's," she said.
Analysts reacted to the deal skeptically. MONY, a relatively small insurer with assets of about $25 billion, has been struggling to compete with the giants. "MONY doesn't have nearly the scale required to compete these days," said Colin Devine, an insurance analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. 
Mr. Devine said Lebenthal would mesh well with MONY's Advest unit. But he said the parent company's biggest problem is that its return on equity has been running around 6 percent, compared with more than 15 percent for the industry leaders.
"This acquisition fails to address the fundamental problems facing MONY," he said, "which are lack of earnings growth, inadequate return on capital and uncertain strategic outlook in an industry that is consolidating, and increasingly gaining economies of scale. Their competition is not insurance companies their own size or even other insurance companies. It's really the Merrill Lynches, the American Expresses and the other really big guys."
Vanessa Wilson, a life insurance analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, said: "The Lebenthal name certainly provides a lot of cachet, but it's only a small step. This acquisition gives MONY access to more high-net-worth individuals without a big capital investment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexandra Lebenthal, chief of Lebenthal & Company, yesterday with Grant Kurtz, left, of the Advest Group and Michael Roth of MONY. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); FAMILY (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%) GOVERNMENT BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: AXA FINANCIAL INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: LEBENTHAL & CO; MONY GROUP INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (57%) WOZENCRAFT, ANN; TREASTER, JOSEPH B; LEBENTHAL, ALEXANDRA; LEBENTHAL, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



297 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: One Part Columbus Day, and One Part 4th of July 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Under seas of American and Italian flags, thousands of marchers surged up a sun drenched, crowd-lined Fifth Avenue yesterday in a decidedly untraditional Columbus Day Parade that combined the patriotic themes of a nation newly at war with the tensions of a city under the threat of terrorism.
 There were traditional displays of Italian-American pride and subdued cameos by mayoral candidates. But the usual ethnic braggadocio and the talk about who discovered the New World were set aside as bands, floats and uniformed marchers turned the 57th annual parade into a Norman Rockwell poster for America and a remembrance of heroes and the missing and dead at the World Trade Center. 
 On a day that seemed more like an old-fashioned Fourth of July, bands played "God Bless America" and "The Star-Spangled Banner," military personnel and vehicles joined a three-hour line of march, and crowds that parade organizers called the largest in memory waved flags and spoke of a need to conquer fears and support the city and the nation in a time of crisis. 
"I think it's important that we aren't afraid," said Tim Amuchastegui, 50, a contractor from Klamath Falls, Ore. "Osama bin Laden has done what he's done and he may do more. We came all the way across the country to show support for New York."
Nearby, Mike Falcone, 70, who attended with 12 members of his Staten Island Bocce Club, said, "It gets you out of your funk to come out on a beautiful day like this, and there was no way I was missing this parade out of all the ones I've been to. It feels more patriotic this year. I like it that way."
It was a blustery autumn afternoon, with cornflower blue skies, green leaves fluttering out of Central Park, and splashes of dazzling color: bright green and gold uniforms, jugglers in white, celebrities in shiny red cars, and flags everywhere -- waved by spectators and marchers, on T-shirts and hats, draped from buildings and light poles, and on every float, with one exception.
The Arab-American Parade Committee float sported a score of flags of various Arab nations, but not the Stars and Stripes. Unlike the other floats, too, it was unoccupied. As it passed 49th Street, spectators reacted coolly. Some applauded, others watched in silence.
City police officers and firefighters were represented by vehicles rather than marching contingents, whose participation was deemed inappropriate given the heavy losses of life -- 343 firefighters and 23 police officers -- at the trade center.
Security was typical for a parade. There were uniformed police officers on every corner, and barricades along the curbs kept the crowds on the sidewalks. A man who ducked under a barricade was tackled by officers as he tried to cross the line of march near 49th Street, but the police said there were no arrests.
An unmarked black van and a detail of police bodyguards hovered about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani as he strode up the avenue with Gov. George E. Pataki and Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican candidate for mayor. The Democrats, Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer, who face each other in a runoff on Thursday, marched as well, as did Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
But it was Mr. Giuliani who drew the attention, as crowds yelled, "Rudy! Rudy!" and shouted praise for his handling of the crisis over the last month. Some even tried to hug and kiss him. The mayor, pausing for interviews, said public officials and parade organizers had debated whether to hold the celebration this year in view of the attacks.
The mayor and Charles A. Gargano, the state's commissioner of economic development and president of the Columbus Citizens Foundation, which sponsors the parade, said a decision to go ahead had been made to help the city get back to normal, and to honor those lost in the trade center and the thousands of firefighters and other emergency workers who have searched the rubble for them.
"This demonstrates that we're going ahead with our lives," the mayor said, his chin tucked up like a marine at boot camp. "We're not going to let terrorism hinder us."
Even so, a day after retaliatory strikes in Afghanistan and vows by Osama bin Laden to destroy America, there was concern that the crowd might be small. In recent years, the parade had dwindled.
But the crowds were dense and enthusiastic along much of the 35-block line of march, though they were thinner near the end. The police gave no estimate, but one organizer said that more than 300,000 people had lined the way, far more than in recent years.
The parade was as much tribute as celebration, and the mood of the day was an unusual blend of solemnity and exuberance.
The crowd grew silent as the Guardia di Finanza marching band stood at attention and played "The Star-Spangled Banner," and again when a woman stood alone atop the Medaglio d'Oro coffee float and sang "God Bless America."
Later, chants of "U.S.A.! U.S.A.!" met troops of the 777th Regional Support Command marching by in battle fatigues, calling cadence.
"Stand tall, boys!" a man shouted.
And another doffed his stars-and-stripes baseball cap and hollered, "Thank you!"
Rifle-spinning displays and the fresh faces of young cadets from the New York Military Academy, marching in dress grays, were grim reminders of the thousands in United States military services posted halfway around the world to fight terrorists and the government that harbors them in Afghanistan.
Peter Engel, 32, of Ossining, a former marine who served in the Persian Gulf war, lofted a sign proclaiming "Death to the Taliban," and said that he and his friends had attended the parade to show support for the city and America. "We made it a point to come today to show that we weren't afraid to come to New York, especially for a big public event."
Ron Horan, 43, of Atlantic Highlands, N.J., said the parade for him was a kind of ratification of certain ideals. "It reaffirms our faith in America," he said. "Look at all the flags here. It's absolutely wonderful. I think it's the best thing we could do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some paradegoers tried to kiss Mayor Giuliani yesterday as he strode up Fifth Avenue with Senator Clinton. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. D6); The Columbus Day Parade yesterday honored those lost at the trade center. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (92%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TERRORISM (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MAYORS (56%) COLUMBUS DAY; PARADES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%) MCFADDEN, ROBERT D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



298 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: WORLD MARKETS; 
Trade, Already Off, Faces New Hurdle

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Trade, which contributed so powerfully to the world's growth for much of the 1990's, had been falling everywhere even before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, pulling national economies down with it. Now, with the prospect of further economic fallout from the war against terrorism, the damage is expected to increase, sidelining global trade as a force for economic recovery.
 The numbers are particularly startling for the United States. Exports of goods and services reached a high last year of 11.4 percent of the value of the country's total economic activity, and then dropped by nearly a percentage point -- equivalent to almost $100 billion in annual exports -- in just nine months. That was enough to help push a weakening economy into a slump. 
 The same pattern was evident worldwide, despite the considerable progress in recent years in pulling down trade barriers. 
The Bush administration, trying to reverse the trend, sees the terrorist attacks as an opportunity to push harder than ever for a new round of negotiations that would knock down more trade barriers. Administration officials argue that by lowering tariffs and other obstacles once again, they can to some extent counter the new costs of moving merchandise across borders that have arisen since Sept. 11, in effect offsetting new frictions by removing old ones.
"I do not see any reason why Sept. 11, if we follow the right policies, should have any negative impact on the ability of people to exchange goods and services around the world," said John B. Taylor, the Treasury Department's under secretary for international affairs. More globalization and fewer tariffs, he added, "will emphasize that trade is a good source of economic growth."
Jeffrey Schott, a trade expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, agreed. "Not going forward with these initiatives," he said, "increases the risk that a country will revert to protectionist measures in response to recession and unemployment."
Lower tariffs would help companies like Lands' End, the catalog retailer, which imports 70 percent of its merchandise, mostly apparel. Immediately after the attacks, shipments arrived a day late because of the extra security procedures, said Charlotte LaComb, manager of investor relations, "and then the customs brokers and freight forwarders, the people who handle our shipments, instituted a small surcharge."
This terrorist "tax" is still too slight to prompt Lands' End to purchase less from abroad, Ms. LaComb said. But it raises new concerns for thousands of companies engaged in cross-border transactions.
That is one reason the administration offers as justification for pushing so hard on the international trade front. It finally forged a compromise with moderate Democrats last week in hopes of achieving quick passage of a bill that would grant the president the right to negotiate trade agreements without being second-guessed by Congress. Under the bill, lawmakers could only approve or reject trade deals but could not amend or rewrite them -- a concession that Congress has denied to the White House for nearly a decade.
The administration also stepped up the pressure to start a new round of tariff-lowering negotiations under the umbrella of the World Trade Organization at a scheduled meeting in Qatar in November, and new agreements in the Western Hemisphere that would in effect extend the North American Free Trade Agreement, known as Nafta, to nearly every nation.
"This administration will fight for open markets and free trade," Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, declared in an outspoken speech right after the attacks. "The global trading system," he added, "has demonstrated -- from Seoul to Santiago -- that it is a pathway out of poverty and despair."
Not everybody agrees with that claim. The economic theory that underlies Mr. Zoellick's argument sometimes fails to work as advertised, or works better for some countries than others, some economists argue. The anti-globalization demonstrators who first appeared in strength at a World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle two years ago embrace this view.
"The important thing to remember is that none of these trade agreements are about free trade," said Thea Lee, an international economist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "They are about trade with rules, managed trade, and then the question is: Managed in whose interest?"
Nafta, she argues, was more in the interest of American companies than Mexican enterprises. "Mexico, for example, was required to prolong patent protection on drugs to match patent protection in the United States," she said. "That helped American pharmaceutical companies export brand-name drugs, but Mexicans must now wait longer to purchase less-expensive generic drugs." 
Most economists, however, argue that freer trade makes it easier for nearly all countries to increase production, profits and income when the rising output of goods and services can be sold freely abroad as well as at home. Nafta "enormously expanded Mexico's access to the United States market," said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley.
But this year a worldwide slowdown radiating from the United States has reduced exports across the globe, to 16.3 percent of the total value of economic activity among all nations from 17.3 percent last year, according to the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Now the terrorist attacks, and the fear of more, are adding a new burden on global trade. "For all the talk about globalization, we are recognizing suddenly that there are national borders," said Joseph Stiglitz, a Columbia University economist, who added that this comes "after trying to pretend in the 1990's that there were none. There could not be two countries with more mutual trust than the United States and Canada, and yet we are being much more thorough in checking goods crossing the border from Canada. An important cost is being added, in Canada and elsewhere, to world trade."
The "tax" on trade from the fear of terrorism is showing up in bits and pieces all over the world. American Eagle Outfitters, for example, a popular clothing retailer among teenagers, has closed an operation in Pakistan and shifted its production to Jordan, to avoid the interruption in shipments that might come from American military action in neighboring Afghanistan.
And in Atlanta, Dan DiMaggio, chief executive of the Logistics Group of United Parcel Service, finds himself contending constantly with new obstacles to the smooth flow of commerce. His division helps companies ship products from overseas cities that are not sufficiently served by U.P.S. cargo jets.
That is especially the case in Asia, where Mr. DiMaggio's staff arranges for passenger jets to carry computer parts, cellphones, semiconductors and the like in their cargo compartments, usually to the United States. In response to the terrorist attacks, the Federal Aviation Administration banned cargo from passenger flights. It has since eased that rule, but cutbacks in trans-Pacific flights have left Mr. DiMaggio scrambling for alternatives, many of them slower and more expensive.
"It is hard to assess whether we are witnessing a permanent change in the supply network or a temporary one," Mr. DiMaggio said. "Right now, logistics people are dealing with the problem on a short-term basis. If we see the changes developing on a more permanent basis, then we will adjust." 
Mr. Eichengreen still believes that world trade will flourish in the long run. Manufacturers in particular, he says, have become very dependent on a global supply chain in assembling products from parts that arrive from many countries. Outsourcing internationally has become too entrenched to go backward now, Mr. Eichengreen says.
But Dani Rodrik, an international economist at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, says there will be substantial changes ahead anyway.
"In the 1990's, with the cold war over, the No. 1 issue on the world agenda was to push for global trade and free capital flows," he said. "Now the push for globalization is being overshadowed by military issues. That means the economic dimension will increasingly be viewed as an instrument" of military priorities and foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Transportation hubs, like Yellow Freight's terminal in Maybrook, N.Y., will be affected by tightened security. Such delays could raise shipping costs. (Susan Stava for The New York Times) Graph: "Trade Slump"Exports, as a share of worldwide economic activity, have been waning in recent years. Graphs track worlwide exports as share of G.D.P. and United States exports as share of G.D.P. since 1990.(Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis; International Monetary Fund) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (79%); PROTECTIONISM (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (71%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (60%); AIRLINES (60%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



299 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FLEET; 
A Wary Warship Launches New Salvos

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: ABOARD THE U.S.S. ENTERPRISE, in the Arabian Sea, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
As warplanes from this ship joined in a second round of strikes in Afghanistan, commanders here said tonight that their greatest worry was the potential for retaliatory action.
 The commanders, who under military rules speak only on condition that their names not be published, said fighter pilots from the Enterprise had encountered some antiaircraft artillery on their initial strikes in Afghanistan, but had seen only a few surface-to-air missiles, all unguided and some shoulder-fired, and that none had posed a threat. 
 They said that a concern about possible retaliation began with that first round of allied attacks on Sunday. It prompted senior officers to monitor civilian air traffic even more intensively. 
"We didn't anticipate any traditional adversary to come back at us after we sent lead across the beach," said the Navy admiral who is the senior officer aboard this ship. "We knew that we weren't going to see masses of enemy planes head into the skies. But we didn't know what terrorist attacks might occur." 
More than anything else, said the admiral, who commands the Enterprise battle group of about a dozen vessels, the concern about the nature of possible retaliation reflected a sense that the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States had changed the rules of war, particularly in what he called an asymmetrical conflict. Even an aircraft carrier, he suggested, could no longer assume that a civilian airliner was benign.
Still, he quoted from Edmund Burke to illustrate what he called the determination of those aboard the ship to do their part in trying to strike a blow against terrorism: "All it takes for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing," he said.
Within hours of the first strikes, the commanders invited reporters to watch some of the infrared video images recorded by the F-14 and F-18 warplanes on their overnight missions. The images showed their precision-guided munitions homing in on their targets, including what was evidently a deep penetration bomb that struck what the officers said had been an underground cave or bunker.
"The pilot told me that after the hit, the whole hillside around the target came alight with small-arms fire," the ship's commander said, suggesting that the target might have been significant. 
The video images showed a strike on what commanders said had been a storage site for antiaircraft missiles, with an initial explosion from the bomb followed seconds later by a large secondary explosion and then the sight of at least one missile zooming erratically into the sky. 
The video was shown by the commander, a Navy captain, who had snatched just two hours of sleep during the flight operations that continued through Sunday night and well into this morning. The images were displayed in the admiral's comfortable wardroom, on a giant screen even as warplanes on the noisy, busy flight deck several decks above continued to roar into the sky.
The commander said he wanted to underscore what he said had been extraordinary efforts to use the precision munitions to minimize the danger of other damage. 
"Our initial assessment is that we had a very high success rate in hitting our targets," he said. "It's very important that we keep the moral high ground by showing that we are not going after civilian targets." Still, the commander said he wanted to wait until he had access to satellite images before making a more definitive judgment.
After the last of the carrier aircraft returned to the flight deck early this afternoon, crew members worked quickly to replenish the planes with rack after rack of munitions. 
In a military tradition, sailors had inscribed some of the bombs with messages for the presumed targets, including some sober messages recalling the deaths of so many Americans on Sept. 11. One spelled out the initials of the Fire Department of New York; another read simply, "For Doug Cherry, Jr., 9/11/01."
Beginning about 10:30 p.m., the fighter planes and support aircraft, many of them refueling craft, began to roar again, ending a nine-hour lull and signaling the onset of another wave of strikes that was expected to last well into Tuesday morning.
The last planes that participated in the combat operations did not return to this carrier until early this afternoon. Along with striking at the targets in Afghanistan, their missions had included serving as escorts for other aircraft, commanders said, including the C-17's used to drop food near the Afghan border.
Another vessel in the battle group, the Philippine Sea, was among the ships and submarines that fired Tomahawk missiles into Afghanistan in the very first wave of the attacks on Sunday. "It's not over," the executive officer of the ship said. "Yesterday was merely one more step of many steps along a long, long road."
The ship's chaplain, a Southern Baptist from Annapolis, Md., said he was "hoping God would be with the people" on the other end of the missile attacks. "We see a lot of fishermen out there and I was wondering what would be going through the minds as they see something go past them."
The commanders said most of the early strikes staged from aboard this carrier had been aimed at air defense targets but would not say what would be the targets of tonight's attacks. "We've proved in past campaigns that your efforts in the early hours in taking down the air defenses will make your mission later on a little easier," the ship's captain said.
About 70 separate sorties flew from the Enterprise in the first round of combat on Sunday and today, with about a dozen F-14's and F-18's actually taking part in the strikes on targets in Afghanistan, commanders said.
In Washington, Pentagon officials said the aircraft in the first wave of attacks included about 25 from aircraft carriers, with others coming from the Carl Vinson, stationed with its own battle group in the Arabian Sea.
Some of the precision-guided bombs dropped by strike aircraft aboard the carrier would have been directed by lasers aimed by the pilots themselves. But others, particularly those carried by the F-18's, were more sophisticated munitions that are guided remotely, via satellite.
"It's like sending an e-mail," the ship's commander said. "You give it an address, and off it goes."
"Our objective is to terrorize the terrorists," the admiral said. But he added later in a long conversation over dinner with a small group of reporters, "The principle we adopted last night was economy of force."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Navy personnel loaded weapons onto a fighter jet on the Enterprise yesterday, as a second wave of attacks was launched on Afghanistan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ENTERPRISE (USS); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



300 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY MEASURES; 
Americans Feel Jittery, And Proceed With Caution

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK with ROBERT PEAR 

 BODY:
Last weekend, visitors to the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia could walk straight through its pavilion to the enduring national symbol. Yesterday, they had to pass through metal detectors. 
 Across a jittery nation, state and local officials, fearing retaliation for American air strikes in Afghanistan, continued putting in place new security measures. 
 In some cases, the security measures extended to events months into the future. In Denver, city officials said yesterday that a New Year's Eve celebration had been cancelled because there were not enough "police resources" available to ensure a safe event. 
In state after state, officials announced steps that would have been unthinkable a month ago. At this week's Mississippi State Fair, visitors are to receive copies of a "terrorism awareness" pamphlet, with information on chemical and biological warfare. 
The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency, saying it was acting in response to worried calls, has issued a list of suggestions for dealing with a chemical attack. The document advised people to buy extra food, water and pet supplies and to become familiar with evacuation routes. It also suggested they conduct "shelter in place" drills -- shutting doors and windows and sealing off sources of outside air. 
Peter Judge, a spokesman for the agency, said that the guidelines had been issued to media outlets and to the local emergency management directors across the state. 
"We're making every effort to get it out there and let people kind of get their arm around this a little bit," he said. "If they feel they have a little bit more control over their lives, this will help." 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said yesterday that law enforcement agencies, public utilities, airlines, railroads and other businesses should maintain the highest possible degree of vigilance.
He added that Americans should not be paralyzed with fear or "intimidated away from liberty." But he added, "Every American should be vigilant, and we're counting on each American to help us defend our nation in this war."
Most government offices were closed yesterday for Columbus Day, but new safety precautions were evident.
On Capitol Hill, police stepped up security around Congress, with extra officers patrolling the grounds. Several lawmakers of Congress said they had been advised not to wear the lapel pins that identify them as members of Congress when they leave the Capitol grounds.
At noon, the United States Park Police arrested nine people singing antiwar songs on the sidewalk in front of the White House. The protesters carried a sign that said, "Stop Bombing." 
Lt. G. William Davis, a spokesman for the police, said the demonstrators -- one man and eight women -- had violated a federal regulation requiring demonstrators to keep moving along the sidewalk. They offered no resistance when they were arrested. Violations are punishable by $50 fines.
A few national parks have closed temporarily, and some have imposed new restrictions -- for example, limiting access to bridges and lakes near dams and reservoirs. 
Peggy Wilhide, a spokeswoman for the Association of American Railroads, which represents freight railroads, said they had been operating on "a red alert status" since Sunday, when President Bush announced the air strikes in Afghanistan.
Railroads have increased patrols and security at rail yards, bridges, tunnels and other key sites, Ms. Wilhide said. Rail carriers have also removed some data from their Web sites and have severely limited access to information on the shipment of chemicals, munitions and other materials that could be used in acts of terrorism.
The general fear of reprisal led to many other unusual security measures and advisories yesterday, including these:
*The Georgia Emergency Management Agency advised visitors to government buildings, including post offices, to allow at least an extra 15 minutes for possible security checks. 
*At Sky Harbor Airport in Phoenix, passengers were asked to remove their shoes before passing through security checkpoints. An airport spokeswoman said the request shortened the time people waited in line because metal plates in shoes could set off the detectors.
*At the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., where 80,000 fans were scheduled last night to see a football game between the Detroit Lions and the St. Louis Rams, the Federal Aviation Administration said it would restrict all air traffic within four miles of the indoor stadium. 
Some people said they were taking at least small daily measures to ward off the chance of attack. 
"I'm sure it's going to happen, it's just a matter of where," said Roy Green, a retired grocery clerk who was on the Third Street Pier in Santa Monica, Calif., yesterday. 
"But I think there's a certain advantage to being outdoors," he added. "You've got visibility. I don't like to be confined in big places anyway." He said he was trying to "steer clear" of all large indoor gatherings. 
In addition to concerns about terrorism, many people said they were worried about economic problems. 
At a Starbucks cafe in suburban Chicago, amid the scent of fresh-ground coffee and the sounds of jazz piped over the speakers, Brenda Klinger, a clerk, worried that she might not be working there much longer. "It's a chain reaction," she said. "If more corporate executives lose their jobs, they won't be able to afford a five-dollar cup of coffee. That entails losing my job." 
Still, fears of terrorism did not keep a boisterous crowd from attending the Taste of Boston, an outdoor culinary event on Boston's City Hall Plaza yesterday. "I've got to live," explained Pat Grant, a real-estate broker from Chelmsford, Mass. "What the terrorists want you to do is stay home. They talk about a lot of people not breathing easily, and that's their goal. But you just can't worry about it." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visitors to the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia submitted to metal-detector searches yesterday, one of the new efforts of heightened security put into effect across the nation recently in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. (Associated Press)(pg. B10); Concrete barriers were put around Los Angeles City Hall on Sunday after the United States bombing of Afghanistan. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ARRESTS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); CITIES (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; PEAR, ROBERT; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



301 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FINANCIAL RISKS; 
A Different Kind of Wartime Economy

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Given the nature of this new conflict with terrorism, the economy is not likely to be revived by the developments that fueled previous wartime booms, like surging orders for tanks and airplanes or demand for workers to replace those who go off to fight.
 This time, the course of the economy will be determined in large part by the relative power of two broader but opposing forces. 
 On the negative side is the uncertainty, and in some cases fear, that has gripped businesses, consumers and investors since Sept. 11, further weakening an economy that had been teetering on the brink of recession, if not already in one.
On the other side of the equation is government economic policy, which had been performing mild CPR on the decade-long business expansion through much of the year. But now fiscal and monetary stimulus are being engaged full force in an effort to make sure that the downturn after the terrorist attacks is as short and shallow as possible. 
"The question is whether this situation will push us into recession or pull us out of it," said Martin N. Baily, who was chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton.
"The part pushing us into recession is that everyone is more concerned about risk," he said. "The part pulling us out is increasing government spending, cutting taxes, being less concerned about the budget deficit and having the Fed move more aggressively to stimulate the economy than it probably would have without this attack."
The Federal Reserve has lately been pulling out all the stops to cut interest rates. Congress and the Bush administration have already approved substantial increases in government spending and seem headed toward approval of a second round of tax cuts and additional stimulus measures this year.
By comparison with past efforts, however, the one-two punch of monetary and fiscal policy falls short of the equivalent of the war mobilization of the World War II era, and may not even pump up the economy in the way the Vietnam War did in the 1960's. 
"My guess is that this is not going to be all that similar to previous wartime economies," said N. Gregory Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard University. "Unless the fiscal stimulus ends up being a lot bigger than I expect, the differences will be greater than the similarities to the past."
Instead, the effectiveness of lower interest rates, higher government spending and tax cuts in turning the economy around will depend to some extent on how the battle against terrorism goes, and on whether the United States and its allies suffer retaliatory attacks.
Given that the modern-day economy of the United States is far more substantial than in the past, the combination should pack enough of a wallop, economists say, to keep the fallout from the terrorist attacks and the military response from overwhelming the nation's economic strengths. Moreover, once the worst of the war is over, it should set the stage for a healthy recovery, probably sometime next year.
In the past, wars have had varying effects on the economy.
On Dec. 7, 1941, the United States was still struggling to emerge from the Depression. The war effort finished the job, creating what amounted to a full-employment economy.
On Aug. 7, 1964, when Congress passed the Gulf of Tonkin resolution, giving its backing to increased American involvement in Vietnam, the economy was already recovered from a 10-month recession that ended in early 1961. Military spending helped keep the expansion going until 1969, even fueling inflation by over-stimulating growth. 
On Aug. 2, 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, the economy fell into what proved to be an eight-month recession. A spike in oil prices hurt the economy, and the modest and temporary increase in military spending was not enough to give the economy much of a lift.
On Sept. 11, it was already clear that the United States was enduring a sharp slowdown and that the expansion -- the longest on record -- might already have come to an end. 
Despite a series of interest rate decreases by the Fed and a tax cut signed into law by President Bush, unemployment was creeping up, business investment in new factories and equipment had stalled, and consumers were growing increasingly jittery.
If the economy was not in recession before the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, it almost certainly went into one afterward. Big companies have announced about 200,000 layoffs and have put expansion plans on hold. 
The economy's strength in recent years has derived in part from a sense of excitement about the availability of jobs and the opportunities generated by technological advances, coupled with a drive by companies to drive down costs. 
Both those factors are now at risk of being overwhelmed by fallout from the campaign against terror.
Companies in many industries now face the prospect of having to invest heavily in increased security, costs that do nothing for their bottom lines. Mr. Baily said El Al, the Israeli airline, spent about 4 percent of its own revenue on security, plus an amount equal to about 3 percent of its revenue from the Israeli government. 
Airlines based in the United States, by contrast, have typically spent only about 2 percent of their revenues on security.
It is harder to put any figures on the potential for a loss of enthusiasm among investors, businesses and consumers.
"We simply do not know how the military action will play out, or what response there might be from the terrorists," said Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm. "Even if the U.S. and other governments manage to foil attempted attacks, we do not know how American consumers will respond to what might amount to a state of perpetual national insecurity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (87%); TAX LAW (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); APPROVALS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



302 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SUPPLIERS; 
Agents of Recovery Under Stress

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Xerox was lucky. It had enough parts to keep going, even when the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks caused a three-day hiatus on shipments. Still, Xerox factories that had previously stocked a day's supply of semiconductor chips -- items readily available from Japan -- will now hold four days' worth.
 "We can't risk running out of commodity items if they are essential to making our products," said Ursula Burns, president of Xerox Worldwide Business Services. 
 Makers of the radioactive drugs used in cancer treatments and diagnostic tests were not so lucky. The shelf life of their finished product is measured in days, or even hours. When all airplanes were grounded for a few days after the attack, manufacturers scrambled to move products by truck, but some shipments decayed nonetheless. 
Now, in the event that another terrorist attack threatens disruption, the industry is seeking regulatory preapproval to make sure its products will continue to move by air. "Things are back to normal," said Roy W. Brown, chairman of the industry's trade group, "but our products are too important to chance a break in supply."
In a superficial sense, the complex American supply chain is almost back to normal. Airplanes are flying, trains are rolling, ships are docking -- and delays at various choke points have been sharply reduced. Indeed, by Sept. 14, United Parcel Service was again offering next-day delivery guarantees. The outbreak of retaliatory strikes in Afghanistan has done little to alter that.
But it is by no means business as usual for American manufacturers. Increasingly, companies are being forced to add the unthinkable to their what-if situations: what if some other event again impedes the easy flow of goods they had come to take for granted? 
"The American production system," warned Donald B. Rosenfield, senior lecturer at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., "has moved so far toward lean manufacturing that simple disruptions in supply can cause problems."
Indeed, he remembered seeing an auto plant shut down half a day last winter merely because icy roads delayed parts shipments.
Now, in response to the terrorist attacks, many companies are rethinking just-in-time delivery systems that were predicated on parts and materials' coming into plants as they were needed.
"Businesspeople are starting to talk about keeping more robust inventories to guard against future disruptions," said Tom Duesterberg, president of the Manufacturers Alliance, a Washington research group.
For example, Ford Motor, said Della DePietro, a spokeswoman for the company, is "putting a little more float into our system," by increasing the inventory for selected parts in selected plants.
Still, few companies seem to be in a crisis. For one thing, there have been few repercussions about missed deliveries, probably because so many customers were in the same plight. The American subsidiary of Ricoh of Japan normally ships replacement parts by air, and many of its customers had to cope with unusable printers and copiers for a while in September. 
"Normally dealers and customers would complain about the slightest shipment delay, but this time we didn't receive one call," said Jim Ivy, the American unit's president.
Most manufacturing experts say that, by now, global buying practices and just-in-time production systems are so entrenched -- and have yielded such benefits -- that few companies plan to backtrack very far.
"None of our members are building warehouses to cope with the aftermath of Sept. 11," said Frank Vargo, the vice president for international economic affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers.
Nor are many companies seeking made-in-the-U.S.A. labels. "The United States plants that might have once stepped into the breach have long since closed," said J. Michael Schaefer, a supply chain consultant at Electronic Data Systems. 
Myriad superficially unrelated reasons kept the damage from freight delays to a minimum and have kept American companies from panicking.
To begin with, the country was already in an economic slowdown at the time of the attacks, and excess inventory was more of a problem than shortages.
"We're facing such sluggish demand that it really didn't matter if product got stuck in the pipeline for a few days," one steel company executive said.
James L. Welch, president of Yellow Freight Systems, the big trucking concern, said that shipments started dropping off as far back as July 2000.
U.P.S., which estimates that the attacks cost it about $130 million in added costs and lost revenue, also had already had a decline in business before that date.
Many companies have dusted off the contingency plans they had set up in case computer problems associated with the Year 2000 transition destroyed crucial data and brought air traffic to a halt. And most companies that rely on parts made in low-wage but politically volatile countries have longstanding plans to cope with catastrophic events like hurricanes, wars and political unrest.
"Smart companies have long built the chance of floods and tornados into their plans," said Ananth Raman, a logistics specialist at the Harvard Business School.
Similarly, most transportation companies, fearful of robberies and hijackings, long ago installed random checks of packages, driver identifications and other hefty security measures.
"Railroads have had a fairly state-of-the-art security system in place since the days of Jesse James," said Patrick Hiatte, a spokesman for the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway in Fort Worth.
Technology has helped, in that software that is routinely used to track shipments also lets companies do triage on those shipments.
For example, many ships carrying goods destined for Home Depot stores are still facing unloading delays at ports. But so far, no Home Depot outlet has been out of stock on those items. The retailer, based in Atlanta, has electronic records showing what was in what cartons and where those cartons were on the ship.
"We prioritized our hottest merchandise," said Joseph McClelland, a Home Depot vice president. Seasonal items like gifts are unloaded first, while ceiling fans, not a high priority now that summer is over, are being left for last. 
No one is suggesting that there will not be freight delays for some time. Economically beleaguered airlines were canceling some flights before Sept. 11.
American Airlines' latest round of cancellations has reduced its capacity to carry freight nearly 19 percent. And, new Federal Aviation Administration regulations severely restrict the types of mail and packages airlines can now carry, and the types of new customers they can serve. 
"Most of our longstanding customers are getting their shipments out on time, but new businesses will find it hard to work with commercial airlines for some time," said Richard L. Denhart, a spokesman for American Airlines Cargo. 
Border bottlenecks remain a problem. Mr. Duesterberg of the Manufacturers Alliance noted that even before Sept. 11 the cost of paperwork and customs delays at borders ran to 5 percent to 13 percent of the cost of goods moving -- a pretty hefty number considering that last year the United States did $653 billion in trade with Mexico and Canada.
Mr. Duesterberg says that without streamlined procedures tighter security measures could add as much as another 3 percent, or about $17 billion, to the costs of delays. 
On Sept. 24 the National Association of Manufacturers and its Canadian counterpart, the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, said they would form a task force to discuss ways to ease delays at the five main border crossings.
Among the measures on the table are electronic processing of customs reports, bar codes on trucks and ways to preapprove shipments from companies that are certified as having adequate security when they load up. 
But Mr. Vargo of the American association says that the two trade groups began hammering out their plans in August. "Even if Sept. 11 hadn't happened," he said, "we would have been running out of capacity at the border crossings."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Business was already off for more than a year at operations like Yellow Freight, somewhat softening the impact of the Sept. 11 attacks. Cargo is loaded and unloaded at a Yellow Freight center in Maybrook, N.Y. (Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. C14); Steps to protect cargo from terrorists could hurt the supply chain. Containers are handled at a terminal near Baltimore. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LEAN MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CANCER (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (70%); ONCOLOGY (70%); SEMICONDUCTORS (57%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); RICOH CO LTD (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP (XRX) 

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); RICOP (PAR) (58%); RICO (LSE) (58%); 7752 (TSE) (58%); UPS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); SIC5043 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%)

PERSON: URSULA M BURNS (59%) ;DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



303 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Mayor Embraces New Airport Plan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Mayor James K. Hahn today formally abandoned a highly divisive plan for expanding Los Angeles International Airport, proposing a more modest strategy that emphasizes security over increased capacity.
 Mr. Hahn's predecessor, Richard J. Riordan, had spent years battling to expand the capacity of the airport to about 89 million passengers a year. (Last year it handled 67 million.) But the cities surrounding the airport fought the plan bitterly, fearing added noise and traffic. 
 Mr. Hahn, who took office in July, announced his support today for a new master plan under which capacity would grow to 78 million, but with most improvements involving security. For instance, parking garages next to the terminals would be removed, and a new terminal just for checking baggage would be built a short shuttle ride away from the existing terminals. The plan envisions a new system of rail lines for ferrying passengers to the airport from downtown Los Angeles and other areas.
Opponents of the old plan said they were generally pleased, in part because the new one would not increase the number of gates or build a big new road around the airport.
"Today is officially the end of the old master plan, and we're very pleased with that," said Mayor Mike Gordon of El Segundo, a town justsouth of the airport, who vigorously opposed the old approach.
"The devil is always in the details," Mr. Gordon added, "so we reserve our full judgment until we see those. But this mirrors many of our own proposals."
Mark Pisano, executive director of the Southern California Association of Governments, a regional planning body, also expressed approval, saying the new approach was compatible with a regional model, developed over the last eight years, that anticipates big increases in population and air traffic. The regional plan would accommodate those increases by expanding several other airports.
Still, adoption of the new plan for Los Angeles International is far from assured. A more detailed proposal must be worked out and then approved by local and federal agencies.
Mr. Hahn said in a statement today that the emphasis on security was partly a response to the prospect of terrorist attacks. The airport was the target of a foiled plot in 1999, an effort linked to agents of Osama bin Laden, and there has been great concern here about a second attempt.
Mr. Hahn leads a new task force appointed by the United States Conference of Mayors to coordinate efforts across the country to overhaul security at airports with minimal disruptions. "LAX," he said today, "can be both safe, consumer- and community-friendly, and a key component of our regional economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (96%); MAYORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; NOISE; NOISE; AIRPORTS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) HAHN, JAMES K (MAYOR); STERNGOLD, JAMES; RIORDAN, RICHARD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



304 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Green Broadcasts Runoff Campaign's First Negative Ad 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
The campaign of the Democratic mayoral candidate Mark Green unleashed the first negative ad of the runoff election last night, labeling his opponent, Fernando Ferrer, "borderline irresponsible" and a proponent of "higher taxes" and a "divided city."
 The commercial uses a split screen, with a picture of Mr. Ferrer on the left and a series of newspaper clippings on the right, including an editorial from The New York Times that said Mr. Ferrer's call to increase financing for parks, even after the World Trade Center attack, was "borderline irresponsible." A narrator reads excerpts from the clippings. 
 The ad then labels Mr. Ferrer himself "borderline irresponsible."
"Can we afford to take a chance?" the narrator asks.
John Del Cecato, a spokesman for Mr. Ferrer, said last night: "Every time there's a test of character in this campaign, Mark Green fails. Now, faced with plummeting polls, he launches an ugly, misleading attack ad with a coded message. After promising not to make negative attacks, it's clear he's intent on dividing the city."
Mr. Green's spokesman, Joseph DePlasco, said last night: "This is not a negative ad. Fernando Ferrer and his surrogates and supporters have hurled a series of personal assaults against Mark. Rather than engaging in personal attacks, we are focusing on issues. New Yorkers have a right to know what Fernando Ferrer has said. He's called for tax increases and his own supporters have said he's running a divisive campaign."
Mr. Ferrer has advocated raising some taxes, especially to pay for after-school programs. The same editorial that criticized Mr. Ferrer criticized Mr. Green for agreeing with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposal to extend his term for three months. 
Some people, including Peter F. Vallone and former Mayor Edward I. Koch, both of whom later endorsed Mr. Ferrer, accused him of running a divisive campaign for talking about his plans to help those in the "other New York." But Mr. Ferrer has denied that the theme is divisive; he says he wants to help those left behind by the recent economic boom.
The ad's release came on the day that former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo endorsed Mr. Green and implied that Mr. Ferrer had misconstrued his famous keynote address to the 1984 Democratic National Convention when he cited it to bolster his theme of the "other New York."
Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, invoked Mr. Cuomo's speech during a debate on Sunday. Mr. Ferrer asked Mr. Green whether he had attacked Governor Cuomo for being divisive when he "gave his very stirring speech about the shining city on the hill and the other city."
Mr. Ferrer's question prompted Mr. Cuomo to go out of his way to "make clear what my message in that speech was" yesterday afternoon as he endorsed Mr. Green, the public advocate. "My speech was all about the politics of inclusion, as opposed to the politics of division," Mr. Cuomo said.
When Mr. Ferrer was told that Mr. Cuomo had suggested he misread the speech, he shrugged it off. "O.K., I guess the whole world did, too," he said.
In fact, the speech, which Mr. Cuomo said was intended as a rebuttal to President Ronald Reagan's description of America as "a shining city on a hill," did mention two cities. "Mr. President, you ought to know that this nation is more a 'Tale of Two Cities' than it is just a 'Shining City on a Hill,' " Mr. Cuomo told the delegates.
Yesterday's endorsement was a nimble performance by an old political pro. He poked fun at his reputation for being overly deliberative and bantered easily with reporters. And he managed to be sharply critical of Mr. Ferrer without saying anything overtly negative.
Mr. Cuomo never said outright that Mr. Ferrer had misunderstood his speech. He simply spent a large part of his remarks clarifying its meaning. Nor did he say that he thought Mr. Ferrer's campaign was divisive, as Mr. Green has charged. But he pointed out that his own speech "argued for inclusiveness instead of divisiveness."
Perhaps Mr. Cuomo's sharpest dig came when he was asked about Mr. Ferrer's changes of position on the death penalty. (Mr. Ferrer went from opposing it, to supporting it, to supporting a moratorium on it.) 
"If you change your mind about the death penalty, then maybe you'll change your mind about taxes, and this and that and that," Mr. Cuomo said. 
Mr. Ferrer shrugged off the Cuomo endorsement of Mr. Green. "Mario Cuomo is entitled to his opinion," he said early in the day. Later, when asked again about Mr. Cuomo, he implied that he was ahead of Mr. Green in voters' minds and therefore should not respond. "As Mario Cuomo himself said in 1982, 'You never shoot anybody in back of you,' " he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo endorsed Mark Green, top, yesterday in the mayoral race. Fernando Ferrer marched with Geraldine Ferraro and Peter F. Vallone in the Columbus Day Parade. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



305 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words

PERSON: George P. Brockway 

HEADLINE: George P. Brockway, 85, Publishing House President 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
George P. Brockway, former president and chairman of the publishing house W. W. Norton & Company, died on Friday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 85.
 He had a long illness, the company said in announcing his death. 
 After doing much editing at Norton, which is based in Manhattan, Mr. Brockway was its president from 1958 to 1976 and chairman from 1976 to 1984, when he retired. He joined the company in 1942, beginning as a copy editor and salesman. 
In 1973, when independent book-publishing houses were considered fair game for takeovers, he vowed that Norton had "never been for sale and is not likely to be."
Norton's current president and chairman, W. Drake McFeely, said, "He invented Norton's independence and ownership structure that allowed W. W. Norton & Company to remain independent 78 years after its founding and long after all the other famous book-publishing houses established in the 1920's have been merged into larger corporate entities." All Norton's stock is now owned by people who currently work at Norton.
In the 1950's Mr. Brockway also created the Norton Anthologies, a still continuing series of collections of writings, including "The Norton Anthology of World Masterpieces," "The Norton Anthology of English Literature" and "The Norton Anthology of American Literature." A total of more than 20 million copies of the books in the series have been sold.
Mr. Brockway also published such bestsellers as Betty Friedan's "Feminine Mystique," Fawn Brodie's "Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History," Judge John Sirica's "To Set the Record Straight," about the Watergate case, and Norman Cousins's "Anatomy of an Illness."
He also published many books by the psychiatrist-author Erik H. Erikson.
In addition, Mr. Brockway and a colleague, Evan W. Thomas 2nd, bought the book rights to Robert F. Kennedy's 25,000-word account of the Cuban missile crisis, "Thirteen Days," for more than $250,000, which was a bestseller.
George Pond Brockway was born in Portland, Me., grew up there and received a bachelor's degree in 1936 from Williams College, where he was the editor of Sketch, the college literary monthly, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
He was with the McGraw-Hill Book Company from 1937 to 1942 and served in the Army from 1944 to 1946. He was an artillery officer in France and Germany. He went on to be a vice president at Norton and a member of its board of directors.
He was also a director of the Yale University Press, wrote books and articles on economics and was a columnist for New Leader magazine and a founder of the journal Post-Keynesian Economics.
His wife, Lucile Hunt Brockway, died in 1988. His wife, Elizabeth Love Brockway, died in 1999.
He is survived by four daughters, Susan Brockway Aradeon of Lagos, Nigeria; Nancy Brockway of Concord, N.H.; Sally Brockway Borger of Ridegefield, Conn.; and Laura Brockway of Atlanta; three sons, David, of Washington; Douglas, of Acton, Mass.; and Andrew, of Maynard, Mass.; and nine grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George P. Brockway, in 1976. (Joan Bingham) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (75%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (93%); MCGRAW-HILL COS INC (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (93%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (50%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

BROCKWAY, GEORGE P; PACE, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (66%); FRANCE (51%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



306 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley Selling Nearly Completed Office Tower to Lehman for $700 Million 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley, the giant financial company, is selling its 33-story tower nearing completion on Seventh Avenue in Midtown to a rival, Lehman Brothers, for about $700 million and moving several thousand employees outside New York City.
 In the topsy turvy world that has become New York real estate since the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, the announcement yesterday by Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers was both good news and bad news for New York. 
 City officials were relieved that Lehman Brothers had finally found a home in Manhattan four weeks after it was displaced from its headquarters near the World Trade Center. Many had feared that Lehman Brothers would move more of its operations to New Jersey. But it was something of a blow to downtown landlords and others who worry that the attack will prompt companies to leave Lower Manhattan for good and lead to a dissolution of the financial district. 
"I'm very disappointed that they're leaving downtown," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York. "But at least they're staying in the city."
Lehman, which has leased the Sheraton Manhattan Hotel in Midtown as a temporary work site for its traders and bankers and has an office building in Jersey City, put it another way.
"This agreement reaffirms our commitment to New York and is a win-win solution to a difficult office space problem facing both of our firms and the city," said Richard S. Fuld, chairman of Lehman Brothers, which expects to move into the tower early next year.
Lehman is uncertain what it will do with the space it owns at 3 World Financial Center, a tower that was damaged in the attack, or when that space can be occupied. The other tenant, American Express, has rented space in New Jersey and Connecticut.
There was also some bad news in Morgan Stanley's decision not to occupy its million-square foot tower on Seventh Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, only two blocks from its headquarters at 1585 Broadway. The financial services company had planned to move its 3,700 employees at the trade center to the new building. 
Morgan Stanley, which has about 10,000 employees in New York City, had announced construction of the skyscraper with a great deal of fanfare in 1998, during the boom on Wall Street. But with the downturn in the economy, it laid off 1,500 employees worldwide in April. Another 150 bankers in New York are reportedly going to be cut from its investment banking operation.
Now, according to real estate executives, it is selling the tower to Lehman Brothers for about $700 million, or about what it cost to build.(The project was co-developed by the Rockefeller Group, whose stake in the deal remains unchanged.)
Morgan Stanley is not about to move its headquarters. But instead of filling out its corporate campus at the north end of Times Square, where it has space in four towers, Morgan Stanley appears to be dispersing some of its employees.
The financial services company will be subleasing the building at 825 Third Avenue, at 50th Street, where it would house about 500 employees. It is also hunting for 500,000 square feet of office space in New Jersey, Westchester and Connecticut, according to a Morgan Stanley executive and to real estate brokers on both sides of the Hudson River. 
Philip J. Purcell, chairman of Morgan Stanley, described the bright side of the announcement. "Morgan Stanley will continue to have a major presence in New York City and will be better positioned from a business continuity standpoint," he said in a statement issued by the company.
But ever since the attack, there has been debate in corporate circles about whether a company should continue to concentrate employees in one location, either a single building or in a group of buildings, as Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley have done in the past.
Although financial services companies have been moving some of their operations to New Jersey for a decade, city officials, urban planners and New York real estate executives are now worried that that trend will accelerate.
Mitchell E. Hersh, chief executive of the Mack Cali Realty Corporation, acknowledged yesterday that Morgan Stanley has talked to him about taking additional space at his company's Harborside office complex in Jersey City. Morgan Stanley already leases about 200,000 square feet of space there.
"I believe that Lower Manhattan will remain the capital of the financial world," Mr. Hersh said. "But I do hear more discussion about dispersion by corporate decision makers. Jersey City is easy to get to, it's on a different power grid and it's easy to attract a work force."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); BONDS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY & CO; LEHMAN BROTHERS 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (58%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



307 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE VIDEOTAPE; 
Bin Laden Images Mesmerize Muslims

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Osama bin Laden's internationally televised speech on Sunday mesmerized many Muslims with its religious and historical imagery, a powerful combination that only magnified his standing with people who wanted to see him as a heroic spokesman for the weak against the strong. 
 Framed in the camera's eye by barren rock and a solitary rifle, Mr. bin Laden summoned up Islam's desert roots. He spoke of swords and horses and the camp of the infidel enemy. His language recalled the contained fury of passages in the Koran where God promises Muslims that they will triumph over nonbelievers and hypocrites who only pretend to accept Islam. 
"The way he talks, his tone and his quiet voice, his vocabulary and his logic -- it's all so charismatic," said Doaa Mostafa, a student of Arabic literature at Ain Shams University in Cairo. "He is so convincing. This was the first time I've seen him on TV and I felt sure he is not a terrorist. I felt his aim is to protect Islam, nothing more."
But while Mr. bin Laden impressed many Muslim listeners with his simple phrases, his championing of the Palestinians and his flowery contempt for the United States, he also frightened others with his vision of an apocalyptic war between Muslims and non-Muslims. 
"He made me feel he is defending the Arabs' rights, since all Arab leaders are silent," said Mohammed Ahmed, another Ain Shams University student. "But I would prefer that he stop using violence and negotiate instead of kill. We agree with him on his point of view, but we do not agree with his methods."
In his speech, the Saudi exile condemned the Muslim leaders who have sympathized with Americans over the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. He called them hypocrites, a word with particular resonance for Muslims because it is used throughout the Koran to describe people who falsely claim to be Muslim. 
According to Islam, which considers the Koran the word of God, hypocrites are doomed to a hell worse than the one that awaits nonbelievers. "The hypocrites," the Koran states in one of many such passages, "will be in the lowest depths of the fire." 
"This is language that can really reach the people, especially in the gulf where the tension is very high," said Fahmi Howeidi, an influential writer on Islamic politics for Al Ahram newspaper in Cairo. 
Similarly, the historical episodes Mr. bin Laden chose to invoke revealed much about his view of the conflicts that continue to simmer in the Arab world, placing them among Islam's greatest defeats. His reference to 80 years of "humiliation and disgrace" was apparently a timeline that began with the end of the Ottoman empire and the beginning of British colonization of the Middle East after World War I. 
In the same broadcast, Ayman al-Zawahiri, Mr. bin Laden's deputy and the leader of the Islamic Jihad group, vowed that "the tragedy of al Andalus" would not be repeated. He was referring to the period widely considered the Islamic golden age in Andalusia, in Spain, that ended in the ignominy of Muslims being driven out of Europe by Christian armies in the 15th century.
Such historical allusions may well tap into the widespread sense of siege among many Muslims who see themselves threatened by a modern world dominated by the United States and Western secularism. 
But Mr. bin Laden was not the first would-be savior of the Muslim world to use the language of religion as part of his appeal. Most recently, the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, whose political roots are in secular Arab nationalism, tried to portray himself as a champion of Islam to garner support. 
But Mr. bin Laden has the unique advantage of having been born into one of the richest families in Saudi Arabia, while now living the austere life of mountain warrior. 
"Here you have a simple man who presents himself as someone who left behind millions of dollars to defend Muslim dignity," Mr. Howeidi said. "He has become the symbol now of challenge to the West."
Still, there was little evidence, so far, that anyone in Egypt was ready to answer Mr. bin Laden's call for battle against the nonbelievers and Americans.
About 30 students, all members of a group devoted to the Arab nationalism of the late Gamal Abdel Nasser, held a brief protest rally at Ain Shams. A young woman climbed the iron fence to the university grounds and shouted out anti-American slogans, while police armed with bamboo sticks surrounded the protesters. Small demonstrations also erupted at a few other universities.
"We all feel sympathy and admiration for bin Laden," said Mostafa Rushdi Ali, a business administration student at Helwan University in Cairo. "But Egypt must remain neutral because if we interfere this will worsen our economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); WRITERS (73%); HIJACKING (72%); WORLD WAR I (70%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ISLAM; KORAN 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%) SACHS, SUSAN; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



308 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PALESTINIANS; 
Arafat Decides to Take A Gamble on the West

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Today, Yasir Arafat took a gamble, confronting a radical Palestinian crowd in a bid to shore up his own position and assert his international credibility as the possible leader of a Palestinian state. 
 For the first time in years, Mr. Arafat's security forces used deadly force against Palestinians to suppress a demonstration in support of Osama bin Laden. In a cloud of tear gas and a hail of bullets, two Palestinians -- one of them only 13 -- were slain. Another was close to death. 
 It was the most dramatic evidence to date that the terrorist attacks on the United States have dented the entrenched thinking of the enemies in the conflict here and created a new chance for peace at the same time as causing a spike in violence.
Many Palestinians sympathize with Mr. bin Laden regardless of whether they supported the attacks on the United States. They say he is a fellow Muslim, accused on trumped-up evidence out of a secret desire by the United States to assault Afghanistan. They say Americans react only to their own suffering and economic interests, and will make no effort -- much less war -- to provide other peoples with enduring freedom.
Yasir Arafat knows this bitterness better than anyone. For years, he has deftly capitalized on it. And today he took brutal measures against the people of the West Bank and Gaza Strip to stop them from expressing it.
In the Persian Gulf war, Mr. Arafat backed Saddam Hussein and saw his international support vanish. On Sept. 11, some Palestinians were filmed celebrating the attacks and Mr. Arafat was once again given a glimpse of the abyss, of life as an international pariah.
Turning his back on this possibility, Mr. Arafat opted to preserve his links with Western governments, while at the same time to send a clear message to radical Palestinian factions, some of whom threaten his authority that the time has come to rein in their agitation, at least for now.
The message he wanted to send out was the one that the Bush administration wanted to hear. As Mr. Arafat himself stayed silent, his spokesman delivered it in response to Mr. bin Laden's televised attempt Sunday to rally support by invoking the Palestinian cause. His spokesman, Yasser Abed Rabbo, said that what he called crimes against Palestinians could not justify killing civilians in New York. There was wriggle room left even in that statement: Mr. Abed Rabbo did not say that Mr. bin Laden was behind the attacks. Regarding the airstrikes in Afghanistan, Mr. Abed Rabbo said that Mr. Arafat was waiting to develop a joint statement with other Arab and Muslim foreign ministers. But a few hours later, Mr. Arafat's guns, turned on supporters of Mr. bin Laden, were more explicit.
Mr. Arafat's calculation appears to be that most Palestinians, even if they sympathize with Mr. bin Laden, will accept today's police action as necessary.
"There is a Palestinian political state of maturation," said Dr. Ziad Abu Amir, a political scientist who is the head of political committee of the Palestinian Legislative Council. Dr. Abu Amir noted that Mr. Arafat, Mr. bin Laden and President Bush had one thing in common: all have expressed sympathy for the Palestinian plight -- some far more recently than others -- in hopes of generating Arab support. 
But Palestinians are jaded when it comes to low-cost compassion. "Over one year of intifada and Palestinian resistance, people saw a level of Arab or Islamic intervention or support that was below expectations," Dr. Abu Amir said. This fact inevitably makes Mr. bin Laden's appeal to the masses more attractive. The Israelis have been pushing Mr. Arafat to arrest militant Palestinian leaders to demonstrate a commitment to the peace process. For the most part, he has resisted. But now it seems his hand may be forced.
Hamas, the radical Islamic movement with broad backing in Gaza and the West Bank, today expressed strong support for Mr. bin Laden. The violence in Gaza began when the police tried to stop demonstrators from Islamic University, a Hamas stronghold.
Late tonight, Palestinians wre still battling against Palestinian police forces in Gaza.
In 1996, at another critical juncture in the peace negotiations, Mr. Arafat arrested some leaders of Hamas, dramatically reducing violence against Israelis. It is that experience that Israeli officials keep citing as they press Mr. Arafat for action now. Mr. Arafat later released those leaders, and they are now more popular, and their followers better armed, than they were in 1996.
Mr. Arafat, a senior Israeli intelligence official said, has not yet "had his Altalena." That was a reference to a fateful decision taken a month after Israel's founding by David Ben-Gurion, then the new nation's prime minister. Rather than permit a ship called the Altalena to bring in guns for a right-wing Israeli movement, he ordered it shelled. It sank off Tel Aviv.
If Mr. Arafat does crack down on militants -- to protect himself, to promote peace, or both -- then it is Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel who will be put to the test. The world may learn if has been seeking to provoke civil war among the Palestinians, as some Palestinians believe, or whether he wants a secure peace, as he says.
The Bush administration's new commitment to a Middle East peace effort will also be tested. Colin Powell, the secretary of state, has also been urging Mr. Arafat to make arrests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (83%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); RIOTS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MISSING PERSONS (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) BENNET, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



309 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ATTACK; 
JETS POUND TALIBAN SITES A 2ND NIGHT; F.B.I. AGENTS SHIFT ANTITERROR TACTICS

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
For a second day, B-2 stealth bombers flying from the United States joined carrier-based aircraft today to strike targets in Afghanistan as anti-American demonstrations began to roil Muslim capitals and Bush administration officials stepped up planning to oust the Afghan regime.
 Today's bombing campaign sent aloft only about half the planes that President Bush ordered launched on Sunday in the first military response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States. American warships loosed Tomahawk cruise missiles in blazes of light over the Arabian Sea, and B-1 bombers flew sorties from the island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. 
 At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said a preliminary assessment of raids against 31 targets on Sunday showed that "we have made progress" toward disabling military airfields and "eliminating the air defense sites" that protect the Taliban and the Qaeda terrorist network of Mr. bin Laden.
Yet, he added, "we cannot yet state with certainty that we destroyed the dozens" of military command and leadership sites attacked by allied aircraft and missiles. He said it was unclear whether the allied strikes had "fully disabled" the Taliban air force and air defenses. 
Attacks seemed to be continuing near dawn, however, suggesting that the Taliban's antiaircraft defenses had been weakened. The Associated Press reported from Kabul, the capital, that a bomb fell near the airport at about 4:50 a.m. Tuesday, Afghan time, followed by a missile screaming into the eastern part of the city. Senior military officials have said that attacks would continue night and day.
In Britain, Defense Secretary Geoffry Hoon suggested that the first phase of attacks on Afghanistan could be over within days.
"I anticipate it is more likely a matter of days rather than weeks," Mr. Hoon told BBC television. "This is the first phase of our attacks on the Taliban regime, on bringing Osama bin Laden to account."
"It depends on how successful those attacks are and whether we find further targets to address, but for the moment this is the anticipation," Mr. Hoon said.
British forces joined the Americans in the first strikes against Afghanistan on Sunday, but did not take part in the second day's raids. 
Pentagon officials said today that no Taliban aircraft have been seen taking to the skies in opposition to American pilots, and no American planes have been lost. 
As the night sky over Kabul was sundered by the flashes of bomb strikes and the arcing lines of tracer fire, Mr. Bush sought to bolster antiterrorism forces at home today by formally installing Tom Ridge, the former Pennsylvania governor, as the head of a new cabinet post for homeland defense. Yet there were concerns that Mr. Ridge would lack the bureaucratic power to force dozens of agencies to coordinate efforts.
"The best defense against terror is a global offensive against terror, wherever it might be found," Mr. Bush said at a swearing-in ceremony for Mr. Ridge. "On all fronts, we are going to be ongoing and relentless as we tighten the net of justice." 
Mr. Rumsfeld said American warplanes had attacked Afghan ground forces associated with both Al Qaeda and the Taliban leadership under Mullah Muhammad Omar. Many of those forces are massed north of Kabul where they have been fighting the opposition Northern Alliance, which is believed to be receiving covert assistance from Russia, Iran and -- now -- the United States.
Reports from Kandahar, a Taliban stronghold, said Mullah Omar's residence at the edge of the city was destroyed during Sunday's opening attack, but Taliban officials said he and Mr. bin Laden were alive.
The Taliban authorities estimated the death toll from the first day's raids at between 8 and 20. American officials had no comment on possible casualties.
Officers aboard the carrier Enterprise said their pilots had attacked an underground bunker on a hillside that was heavily defended by troops with small arms, but they declined to reveal the identity of the Taliban or Al Qaeda leaders who they believed were taking refuge there.
As the American-led campaign unfolded, Palestinians today clashed with one another in the Gaza Strip. Palestinian security forces shot dead two students, one of them a 13-year-old, who were among up to 2,000 protesters demonstrating against the American-led military action in Afghanistan. After the shooting, an angry crowd of Palestinians ransacked police posts in Gaza City. 
The most widespread demonstrations against the American strikes occurred in Pakistan, the world's second most populous Islamic nation and the breeding ground for many of the Islamic militants who now form the Taliban leadership in neighboring Afghanistan.
The worst anti-American demonstrations occurred in Quetta, a city 60 miles from the border with southern Afghanistan. At least one person was shot dead, and the police reported that a subinspector had been kidnapped when the central police station was burned in rioting that destroyed several shops and movie theaters. United Nations agency offices were also burned.
Demonstrations occurred in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, and in the cities of Peshawar, Lahore and Karachi, as well as close to the Khyber Pass border crossing into Afghanistan, where tribal leaders burned an effigy of Mr. Bush.
In Cairo, 10,000 students protested peacefully on three university campuses, in one case chanting: "Our rulers, why are you silent? Have you got orders from America?"
In Sudan, protesters in Khartoum shouted, "Long live bin Laden!"
American embassies, schools and other facilities closed throughout the Middle East as security alerts warned American citizens abroad to exercise extreme caution.
Although Iran expressed unusual sympathy for the United States in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and its Shiite Muslim leaders have no liking for the Sunni Muslim leadership of the Taliban, the country's spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, condemned the American strikes. 
"America is lying when it propagates the aims of its attacks against Afghanistan to be a struggle against terrorism," he said. "But this is not a struggle against terrorism. Why do they lie to the people of the world? Why don't they express the true aim -- power and domination."
In his briefing today, Mr. Rumsfeld said an American objective is to assist Afghan forces "interested in overthrowing and expelling" the Taliban. 
"The United States is interested in the elements of the Afghans on the ground that have it in their mind that they would like to end Al Qaeda's role in Afghanistan and end the senior Taliban's leadership role," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "And the Northern Alliance and the tribes in the south and others are among those." 
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said it was "not the job of the United States to engage in nation building" by seeking to orchestrate the shape of a future Afghan government. He reiterated administration policy, saying, "We do not want to choose who rules Afghanistan, but we will assist those who seek a peaceful, economically developing Afghanistan, free of terrorism."
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said today that "the Taliban is effectively already gone."
Mr. Biden, appearing on the CBS News "Early Show," said the Taliban had "lost the support of all the surrounding neighbors," adding: "It does not have any place to go. And the question now is for me just a matter of how long, not if, and what replaces it."
European Union foreign ministers, meeting in Luxembourg, declared that "the Afghan people deserve a government which is truly representative and which responds to their needs and aspirations," and stressed that the United Nations had an "essential" role to play in establishing such a government.
The French foreign minister, Hubert Vedrine, said there was consensus on a French proposal that Afghanistan's 86-year-old exiled king, now living in Rome, could play a key transitional role. 
Relief operations in Afghanistan suffered a blow today when the United Nations World Food Program announced that it was suspending food distribution in the country during the bombing campaign. 
American officials said C-17's flying at 30,000 feet again dropped more than 35,000 food and medicine packets, but some international aid organizations criticized the effort.
"It's an act of marketing, aimed more at public opinion than saving lives," Thomas Gonnet, head of operations in Afghanistan for the French group Action Against Hunger, told Agence France-Presse. 
But Mr. Rumsfeld bristled at such criticism, pointing out that the United States had made a $320 million relief commitment to Afghanistan. One of the purposes of the bombing campaign, he pointed out, was to make the country safe for relief operations to resume.
At the United Nations today, the American representative, John Negroponte, submitted a letter to the Security Council saying the United States may find it necessary to carry its military campaign into other nations, without specifying which ones. 
"We may find that our self-defense requires further actions with respect to other organizations and other states," the letter said, raising the question of whether the Bush administration was laying the groundwork for attacks against terror groups in Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and other countries identified as harboring terrorists.
Jack Straw, the British foreign secretary, suggested that there was an agreement between London and Washington to defer actions elsewhere until the Afghanistan problem was solved. 
"The agreement at the moment," Mr. Straw said today in Luxembourg, is that military strikes "are confined to Afghanistan." He added,"That is where the problem is, and that is the military action in which we are involved."
Mr. Hoon, the British defense secretary, told reporters in London that "the use of ground troops" was among the options that American and allied planners were preparing for later stages of the antiterrorist campaign in Afghanistan. 
Canada said today that it would contribute 2,000 troops, most of them commando forces, along with six ships and six aircraft to the American-led coalition. And Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, who has been keen to cast his nation as a dependable Atlantic partner with a military contribution to make, announced that he planned to visit Mr. Bush in Washington on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "More Strikes"The United States yesterday conducted another, more limited night of bombing in Afghanistan. Fifteen cruise missiles, five bombers and 10 strike aircraft carried out the attacks. Pentagon officials said British and American forces had hit 31 targets on Sunday. Map highlights the following sites:Taliban armor, aircraft and anti- aircraft missilesBin Laden training campsAirport, bin Laden training campsFood rations airdropped somewhere south of Kabul near borderAl Qaeda housing, surface-to-air missiles and airport radar and control tower Map shows areas:Reported bombed yesterdayReported bombed both daysReported bombed Sunday(pg. A1) Map of Afghanistan highlighting key locations within Kabul: Flashes of bomb strikes and tracer fire lighted up the sky over Kabul. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); TERRORISM (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (83%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); RELIGION (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); AL-QAEDA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE); OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RIDGE, TOM; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; OMAR, MUHAMMAD (MULLAH); TYLER, PATRICK E; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); HOON, GEOFF (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; PAKISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



310 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Thunderous Night Attacks

AIRSTRIKES CONTINUE -- B-2 stealth bombers flying from the United States joined carrier-based aircraft and ship-launched missiles in scaled-back strikes on Afghanistan. A1

ATTACK ON KABUL -- Afghanistan's capital passed a quieter night as Northern Alliance forces fail to augment American bombing. B3

AFGHANS IN AMERICA -- Concern in Fremont, Calif., the center of America's Afghan population. B3

Destruction and Aid

MILITARY'S CONCERN -- The safety of family members back home worries personnel on American warships attacking Afghanistan. B2

AID MISSION -- Two U.S. transport planes dropped more than 37,000 meals over war- and drought-ravaged eastern Afghanistan in the first run to help civilians there. B2

Battle Plans

STRATEGIC FOCUS -- Mazar-i-Sharif, a dusty Taliban-held city, lies at the heart of a strategy to turn the tide in favor of the Northern Alliance. A1

PAKISTAN'S UNEASE -- President Pervez Musharraf insisted that he wants the allied military campaign in Afghanistan to be over quickly. B1

PLOT AGAINST SAUDI ARABIA -- American officials said Osama bin Laden plans to attack Saudi Arabia in an effort to oust the royal family. B4

Defense Mechanisms

TERRORISM DEFENSE -- Federal agents were ordered to curtail investigation of the Sept. 11 terror attacks so they can pursue leads that might prevent a second, possibly imminent round of terrorist attacks, senior law enforcement officials say. A1

A LENGTHY FIGHT -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned the nation to prepare for years, not months, of battle in the war on terrorism. B5

CALM COLUMBUS DAY -- Many of the 40,000 members of elite military forces stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C., took Columbus Day off for a last taste of home. B5

AT THE UNITED NATIONS -- The United States offered the Security Council its justification for strikes against the Taliban. B5

Battle of the Airwaves

BLAIR ON ARAB TV -- Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain appeared in an interview with the Arabic-language satellite channel Al Jazeera. B6

INDEPENDENT VOICE -- Al Jazeera has become the Arab world's CNN, building a reputation for independent reporting that contrasts sharply with other Arab-language stations. B6

NEW CALL TO ARMS -- Osama bin Laden's televised speech, his fourth call for holy war, was more hostile in tone and ambitious in its goals than his previous three appeals. B6

MUSLIMS' THOUGHTS -- In Egypt, Osama bin Laden's television appearance impressed some Muslims and frightened others. B6

Commander and His Circle

AN OPERATION UNFOLDS -- Senior White House officials offered the first, if selective, glimpse of the hours leading up to the strikes. B7

LIMITING LEAKS -- President Bush will limit access to briefings on classified information. B7

PUBLIC OPINION -- President Bush has gained steadfast public support for his fight against terrorism, but many pollsters said he could be vulnerable on the economic front. B7

GERMAN SUPPORT -- Acknowledging its own conflicts over military action, the Greens in Germany offered support for the American fight against terrorism. B7

International Reaction

CONDEMNATION IN IRAN -- Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's religious leader, said the airstrikes would prove a mistake for Britain and the United States. B8

EUROPEAN PLEDGES -- Spain and Italy promised to send troops if necessary to the campaign in Afghanistan. B8

PUTIN'S NEW POLICY -- In taking a new internationalist stance, a new question for President Vladimir V. Putin: can he achieve it? B8

ARAB NATIONS SPEAK -- Arab governments' reactions to the strikes in Afghanistan included anger, mixed messages and silence. B8

GAZA CONFRONTATIONS -- In the Gaza Strip, anti-American protests led to violence, as Palestinian security forces fired on demonstrators and killed at least two. A1

ARAFAT'S GAMBLE -- Yasir Arafat is gambling that in confronting radical Palestinians he can shore up his authority at home and his credibility abroad. B8

RAGE IN PAKISTAN -- Gangs of furious protesters in Quetta, Pakistan, smashed and burned anything that appeared American or Western. B8

WAR MADE FOR RADIO -- Television coverage of the airstrikes has provided so few pictures that news executives are comparing reports to old-style radio dispatches. B8

The Search for Security

ANTHRAX INQUIRY -- The F.B.I. takes control of the investigation of anthrax in South Florida after a co-worker of a man who died from the illness was also found to have spores from the disease. A1

SUSPICIONS ABOUT ANTHRAX -- Experts on Anthrax are leaning toward the possibility that spores were deliberately placed in South Florida. B11

TIGHTENED SECURITY -- Across a jittery nation, officials erect new security measures. B1

FEWER CARRY-ONS -- Officials limit commercial air travelers to one carry-on bag and one personal item. B10

JET EMERGENCY -- An airliner landed in Chicago after a man tried to break into the cockpit; officials said it did not seem to be a terror incident. B10

SAFEGUARDING NEW YORK -- National Guardsmen will be posted at Grand Central and Pennsylvania Station as part of new security measures in the New York area. B10

HOME DEFENSE -- Tom Ridge was sworn in as the first director of homeland security, charged with coordinating America's anti-terrorism operations. B11

Watching the Economy

CONSUMER CONFIDENCE -- Tentatively, American consumers continued their return to malls and movie complexes, slowly reversing the sharp drop-off in sales after Sept. 11. B12

ECONOMIC OUTLOOK -- The war on terrorism may not give the economic boost seen in previous conflicts. B12

STILL FLYING -- Air traffic held steady -- at its recent, lower level -- after attacks on Afghanistan. B12

The Aftermath in New York

OPEN-EYED AMERICA -- After Osama bin Laden said Americans were living in fear, most disagreed: for now, they generally admitted only to a heightened awareness. A1

BY A HAIR'S BREADTH -- A window washer held the only way out of a World Trade Center elevator, through a wall, and to safety. B1

CLEARING THE RUINS -- The blueprints for building the trade center now provide plans for the intricate routes to haul the rubble away. B13

A BEREAVED RESPONSE -- Comfort for some, pain for others in watching a war after losing loved ones. B13

BACK TO SCHOOL -- About 3,000 students will return to classes today at Stuyvesant High School in a vastly changed Lower Manhattan. B14

NEEDIEST CASES -- B14

The Arts

CYNICISM'S RESURRECTION -- Satire and cynicism have made a comeback on television and the Internet and in video rental stores. E1

Science

SPECTER OF SMALLPOX -- Although experts say chances of terrorists' acquiring smallpox virus for use as a weapon are low, the devastating potential of such an attack has quietly led to studies of how to stretch long-dormant vaccine stocks. F1

Portraits of Grief B15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); RELIGION (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); DROUGHT (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (53%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



311 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PLOTS; 
Saudi Arabia Also a Target Of Attacks, U.S. Officials Say

BYLINE:  By LOWELL BERGMAN and TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
In recent months, Osama bin Laden and his allies have planned attacks against targets in Saudi Arabia as part of their continuing effort to oust the Saudi royal family, American officials said today.
 The officials said the planned attacks were intended to exploit political discontent in the region. They said several arrests in connection with the conspiracy were made in Gulf states over the summer. 
 The Saudi Interior Ministry said it was investigating whether a parcel bomb that killed two people, including one American, and injured four near an American military base in the city of Khobar two days ago was part of those plans. 
Mr. bin Laden and his allies dream of forcing American troops and the Saudi royal family out of Arabia, undermining American political support for moderate Arab nations like Egypt, and converting them into Islamic states.
And in many ways, according to Arab and American diplomats interviewed by reporters for The New York Times and the PBS program "Frontline," Mr. bin Laden tries to exploit rage over corruption and poverty to gain support in Muslim lands. 
The United States "should ourselves do what we can to eliminate the causes which seem to give some justification to the cause of someone like bin Laden," said Richard L. Armitage, the deputy secretary of state.
The Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, acknowledging corruption in his country, said the Saudi royal family has "implemented a development program that was close to $400 billion." He continued: "You could not have done all of that for less than, let's say, $350 billion. If you tell me that building this whole country, and spending $350 billion out of $400 billion that we misused or got corrupted with $50 billion, I'll tell you yes," he said. "So what? We did not invent corruption."
He acknowledged that the root of some of the rage in radical Islamic circles is economic, and that human rights was a luxury some Arab states cannot afford. "We want the right to eat for a lot of people," he said. "Let's first finish that. Then we get to all your fantasies in America."
Mr. bin Laden's two top lieutenants come from a radical group, Egyptian Islamic Jihad, that has been fighting for more than 20 years to overthrow the Egyptian government. The group was responsible for a generation of killings in Egypt, from the assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat in 1981 to the killing of 58 tourists in 1997. 
The Egyptian ambassador to the United States, Nabil Famy, said that in facing down terrorism, Egypt came to understand that it "comes from people feeling marginalized. And because they're marginalized, they move toward violent extremism. And they're wrong."
The Saudis knew Mr. bin Laden as the increasingly wayward son of the royal family's favorite construction magnate. Prince Bandar met Mr. bin Laden briefly when the Saudis, the Americans and members of the bin Laden organization were fighting to help the Afghan rebels -- the mujahedeen, or holy warriors -- repel Soviet occupiers of Afghanistan in the 1980's.
"Bin Laden used to come to us when America, underline, America, through the C.I.A. and Saudi Arabia, were helping our brother mujahedeen in Afghanistan, to get rid of the communist secularist Soviet Union forces," Prince Bandar said. "Osama bin Laden came and said 'Thank you. Thank you for bringing the Americans to help us.' "
Prince Bandar added, "At that time I thought he couldn't lead eight ducks across the street."
Today, as then, the Saudis' coalition with the United States is a delicate balance. Like the 19 American soldiers killed in 1996 in the bombing of the Khobar Towers complex, American troops in Saudi Arabia guard the power of the royal family, but remain targets of radical wrath against the Saudi house.
"In a Western democracy, you lose touch with your people, you lose elections," Prince Bandar said. "In a monarchy, you lose your head."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); CONSPIRACY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); ASSASSINATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ETHICS (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ARRESTS (57%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ROYAL FAMILY 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%) BERGMAN, LOWELL; WEINER, TIM; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (99%); EGYPT (95%); GULF STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



312 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: HOMELAND SECURITY; 
A New Federal Office Opens Amid Concern That Its Head Won't Have Enough Power

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER and ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Tom Ridge was sworn in today as the first director of homeland security, a position the country's leaders never felt was needed before Sept. 11 and a job experts fear will be nearly impossible.
 President Bush assembled his entire cabinet to welcome Mr. Ridge to their midst but without an agency to call his own. He is charged with coordinating their efforts to gather intelligence to prevent an attack, to protect the borders and the critical systems inside the country and to respond immediately if terrorists strike again. 
 Mr. Bush also tried to calm a country put on full alert on Sunday after American and British forces began strikes against Afghanistan.
"I know that many Americans at this time have fears," the president said. But in outlining the huge scope of the Homeland Security Office, he promised that Mr. Ridge would have "the full attention and complete support of the very highest levels of our government."
Creating the new office is one of Mr. Bush's most important responses to the Sept. 11 attacks. He named as its head Mr. Ridge, a close political ally and trusted friend who was until last week the governor of Pennsylvania. With the title of homeland security adviser, Mr. Ridge is supposed to have powers to match those of Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser. 
In perhaps the most visible illustration of the president's vision for Mr. Ridge, the homeland security council will include the vice president, the attorney general, the secretaries of defense, treasury, transportation and health and human services and the heads of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. Ridge moved into the West Wing today, to an office next to the Roosevelt Room on the same corridor as the Oval Office, and was given a $25 million start-up budget.
But already turf wars have broken out behind the scenes in the executive branch, and Congress is debating how to give Mr. Ridge enough power to ensure he is not defeated in daily government battles. 
Structurally, the position is without parallel, since it involves coordinating 46 agencies with a small staff scattered throughout the government and no clear budget authority. There are predictions that it will become a bureaucratic nightmare for a man who is not a bureaucratic black belt. Mr. Ridge has no experience in the executive branch, in counterterrorism or in intelligence.
Legislators question how, as only a coordinator empowered by his proximity to the president rather than actual legal authority, Mr. Ridge will be able to tell the secretary of defense, Donald H. Rumsfeld, to alter his defense budget or order George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, to rearrange his priorities. 
Mr. Ridge tried to address those concerns today at his swearing-in ceremony. "We must be task-oriented," he told his fellow cabinet members. "The only turf we should be worried about protecting is the turf we stand on."
Mr. Ridge also answered critics and naysayers who for the last two weeks have declared his new position dead on arrival.
"The task before us is difficult, but not impossible," Mr. Ridge said.
Representative Jane Harman, Democrat of California, is a co-sponsor of legislation to put into law both the Homeland Security Office and new budget authority for Mr. Ridge.
"I feel Mr. Ridge has the critical job in the U.S. government now, aside from the president's," Ms. Harman said. "In the long term, he needs the power to do more."
For his part, Mr. Ridge agreed that his job was immense and compared it to three extraordinary national efforts: building the transcontinental railroad, winning World War II and putting a man on the moon.
But Mr. Ridge will be sharing nearly every one of his responsibilities with another department or agency led by politicians with authority far greater than his. An example of the confused lines of command are the two other new administration positions created for the homeland security command.
The White House will officially announce on Tuesday the appointments of Gen. Wayne A. Downing, a four-star Army general who is retired, as the new counterterrorism deputy at the National Security Council and Richard A. Clarke as director of cybersecurity. Both men will work under the direction of Ms. Rice but also report to Mr. Ridge, White House officials said.
The intelligence world, which stretches from the Defense Department through the F.B.I., C.I.A. and at least two other agencies, professes some confusion. The C.I.A. began sending packets of classified information to Mr. Ridge, in care of the White House, to prepare him before he took office. But the packets were sent back because Mr. Ridge had yet to take up his post.
"The lines of authority have not been sorted out," one senior intelligence official said. "I'm not even sure what homeland defense means."
It will be up to Mr. Ridge to carve out his role. The preferred model is Robert E. Rubin, who through the force of his personality, reputation and stature made the National Economic Council a powerhouse in 1993 under President Bill Clinton and then became treasury secretary.
Despite the president's promise that Mr. Ridge would be as powerful as Ms. Rice, there are other, less attractive models of how his position could be undermined.
Several advisory panels have argued that only a secretary of a department of homeland security could avoid the fate of drug czars and other special advisers who felt they never had the necessary authority to accomplish their tasks.
In his swearing-in ceremony today, Mr. Ridge played down questions of power and said his biggest problem was filling in the gaps of the work of millions of Americans "working every day to ensure our security."
"The job of the office of homeland security will be to identify those gaps and work to close them," he said. "The size and scope of this challenge are immense."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); MISSING PERSONS (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (92%) ;OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY 

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; RIDGE, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



313 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Spying for a Long, Hot War 

BYLINE:  By Bobby R. Inman; Bobby R. Inman served in high intelligence positions under three presidents and is a professor of national policy at the University of Texas at Austin.

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
The total surprise achieved by the perpetrators of the acts of war on Sept. 11 has forced a reappraisal of the entire American approach to combating terrorism. The top priority remains domestic. Legislation is now being considered to enhance the law-enforcement tools for detecting, pursuing and blocking terrorists here. The much harder and longer-term challenge will be building our intelligence capabilities. Now that war has begun, meeting this challenge has become still more urgent.
 To understand what needs to be done, one must first look at how we got where we are: grossly unprepared to keep the country critically informed about the world around us. 
 In the late 1950's, before satellite photography became available, at least 75 percent of the raw information came from people gathering intelligence around the world. At least two thirds of that came from foreign service officers engaged in overt activities: reading the local papers, listening to the local radio, speaking with local officials and generally moving about with open eyes and ears. The rest of our "human intelligence" came from covert information-gathering by clandestine case officers, that is, from spies.
In the early 1960's, as a vogue for systems analysis and cost-benefit tradeoffs swept through government, it was decided that nonofficial cover -- in most cases, posing as businessmen -- for clandestine officers was too expensive. Instead, more agents were placed in American embassies and consulates, posing as political, economic, cultural, commercial, legal and military officers or attaches as cover for spying.
From 1967 to 1981, American ambassadors were told to reduce the size of the official presence in the countries where they served. Out went many of the overt foreign-service observers and with them many of the covers being used for clandestine officers.
By 1974, the reduction in personnel had been so large that the Central Intelligence Agency's deputy director for operations, Bill Nelson, concluded that the headquarters staff in Virginia should be reduced as well, because it had become too large for the size of the remaining field force. He proposed reducing headquarters staff by about 900 people.
William Colby, the director of central intelligence, set Mr. Nelson's proposal aside while grappling with Congressional investigations of the C.I.A.'s work. Mr. Colby's successor as director, George H. W. Bush, chose not to address problems of staff size.
In 1977 a new director, Stansfield Turner, was asked by the Office of Management and Budget to reduce intelligence spending. He took the Nelson study off the shelf and gave it to the operations leadership. Unfortunately, the operations people used the opportunity to reduce field personnel -- in particular, case officers and station chiefs who were viewed by some in headquarters as competitors -- as well as the headquarters staff. Much experienced spying talent was lost.
In 1981, Ronald Reagan authorized a vigorous rebuilding of human intelligence capabilities. C.I.A. growth was limited, however, by the small training base. The time was already past when you could simply hire capable agents; you now had to train them, often from scratch. Secretary of State Alexander Haig also encountered resistance in his department to using defense-budget funds for rebuilding the foreign service overseas, which would at least have improved our overt intelligence gathering. The intervening years have provided only limited improvements in either overt or clandestine human intelligence collection.
America needs the best clandestine intelligence gathering it can find. It should be a relatively small force focused on the hard targets that cannot be dealt with through overt information collection. As matters stand, field agents from the C.I.A., military intelligence and other agencies are burdened and distracted by the work once done by foreign service officers -- reading the papers, meeting with local officials. They haven't the time for clandestine work, which is the only work that will crack terrorist networks.
At the same time, our ability to gather information by overt means also remains inadequate. This will be especially problematic as the government works with its partners in the war on terrorism. Most of the critical information about what drives current and potential allies is accessible by overt observers with language skills and deep knowledge of the countries involved. Several retired career ambassadors have expressed skepticism that the existing foreign service is adequate to the task. I believe we must at least start there. The pool of talent needs to be substantially increased, right now, with a significant program of scholarships for language and area studies linked to a commitment of some years of public service.
It will probably be at least 10 years before we can return to the level of competence we had in the 1950's. In the meantime, our relationships with other countries, including many not dedicated to our democratic principles, will be vital to filling human intelligence gaps. Dependence on foreign intelligence services is clearly not ideal, and the sooner we can reduce that dependence the better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ESPIONAGE (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: BILL NELSON (74%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); GEORGE H W BUSH (50%) INMAN, BOBBY R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



314 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Are Scarce in the Newest Economy 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ANDERSON, S.C., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Judy Maness, the manager of the 24-hour Waffle House restaurant just off Interstate 85 here, has tucked away the "Now Hiring" sign.
 "Last year I was begging and pleading for employees," she said. "I might go three weeks before someone would come in and apply." 
 Not anymore. Along the asphalt artery that binds the economy from Charlotte, N.C., through South Carolina and Georgia to Montgomery, Ala., it is the workers, many laid off by electronics and textile plants, who are begging. 
"I get an applicant every day," Ms. Maness said. "They're taking anything and everything."
She can be picky, too, making sure job seekers have reliable cars and rejecting any unable to work the 9-p.m.-to-7-a.m. shift. 
In the 1990's, the "Now Hiring" sign became an emblem of prosperity. It beckoned from banners in parking lots and marquees of restaurants, motels and malls, offering jobs that paid $6 to $10 an hour to just about anyone who came along.
Now with the jolt of last month's terrorist attacks slowing an already faltering economy, these last-resort jobs for people who have lost better jobs have become scarcer, too.
In August, for the first time in 34 years, employment in restaurants and bars fell, said Steven Anderson, president and chief executive of the National Restaurant Association. The decline accelerated last month. On Friday, the Labor Department reported the loss of 199,000 more jobs in September, including 44,000 in retail businesses.
Hiring signs still bloom in parts of the Midwest with low unemployment, like Kansas and Iowa, and in layoff-resistant university and government towns with little manufacturing. But in many states, store and restaurant employment has fallen.
In Oregon, it has been falling since April, says Arthur Ayre, economist at the state's Department of Employment. Alabama lost 6,300 retail and wholesale jobs in the 12 months through August, the state Department of Industrial Relations says. In August, the Atlanta metropolitan area lost 4,000 bar and restaurant jobs after adding 11,000 from July last year to July this year, the Georgia Department of Labor reported. 
" 'Now Hiring' is no longer the definitive marquee," said Martin Capodice, a labor market research analyst for New Hampshire. 
Near an I-85 exit into Greenville, S.C., is a cluster of $6-to-$20-a-plate chain restaurants, including Tony Roma's, Romano's Macaroni Grill, Joe's Crab Shack, On the Border, Applebee's, California Dreaming and Logan's Roadhouse. With business slowing, just one, Romano's, has a hiring sign. 
Keir Vondrak, the bar manager at Logan's, said the restaurant had been short of staff as recently as July. Lately, Mr. Vondrak said, "we've been getting people coming in and applying for jobs right and left. I have a file for applications. A month and a half ago, I didn't need a file for applications."
Bryce Anderson, 24, landed a job at Logan's in mid-August. He earns $350 to $700 a week, a good salary for a waiter. But given his background -- he graduated from Clemson University in Clemson, S.C., with a degree in computer information systems -- he had expected to be working in the computer industry. 
"I have searched up and down I-85 from Atlanta to Charlotte and have been unable to hire on even as an entry-level employee," Mr. Anderson said. He wears his Clemson ring, he said, with the hope it may inspire alumni in the industry to give him a break. 
Gwinnett County, Ga., 15 miles east of central Atlanta, is home to I-85's hottest job market. According to the 2000 census, the county, grew by 67 percent in the last decade, to 588,440. Unemployment rarely budged above 2 percent. But lately it has reached 3 percent. Factory layoffs and closings are pushing it higher, and airline layoffs are still to come. Restaurants are shedding workers, too. 
Jobs have been more stable in retail stores, but the stability masks another decline. To keep down costs, stores are replacing full-time workers with part-timers who are ineligible for benefits, said Mel Wages, a Georgia Labor Department official who recruits employers to hire the jobless in Gwinnett County. 
"You have the same number of workers," Mr. Wages said, "but full-time jobs in retail have definitely decreased."
He said he doubted that more than 10 percent to 15 percent of the store jobs today were full-time. 
One day this week, the 120-space parking lot at the Labor Department's Gwinnett County field office in Lawrenceville was nearly full of cars, most the late-model rewards of the decade of prosperity. New applicants for unemployment benefits spilled out the door.
Ed Lorenz, 47, waited to be called by job counselors. He had been the warehouse manager for a company that installs and dismantles booths at trade shows. "But the economy slowed," Mr. Lorenz said, "and people cut back participation in trade shows." In September he was shifted to part-time, and his pay has shrunk to $600 a month from $2,200. Now he seeks a new job or a second one.
Mr. Lorenz's best bet might be the 100-store mall, near the field office, set to open soon. The stores will need 3,000 workers. "There is still that type of job growth in Gwinnett County," said the Sherry Moore, manager of the field office. But Mr. Lorenz will have plenty of competition. Two weeks ago, Ms. Moore said, 2,500 people showed up at the mall's two-day hiring fair. 
Along I-85 in Commerce, Ga., east of Gwinnett County, two large outlet malls list 160 stores, but about 10 percent are vacant. 
Jobs are scarce. "We have a stack of applications like this," said Brandy Fowler, a saleswoman at Back Room Shoes, forming a three-inch gap between her thumb and fingers. 
Things are even tougher in Gastonia, N.C., about 15 miles west of Charlotte. In recent months, the town was shattered by a wave of textile plant closings and layoffs.
"I came here two years ago because they had a sign out front for hiring a manager," said Angie Liddic, manager of the Arby's Restaurant here. "Now the sign says, 'God Bless America.' " 
"A year ago we couldn't get people to work late," Ms. Liddic added. "Now they're wanting hours I can't give them." 
Back in Anderson, Mike Perry, 21 and single, was laid off by a company that makes circuit boards for computers. He earned $14.82 an hour or about $30,000 a year. For three weeks, he said, "I sent around a bunch of applications, to Wal-Mart, Kmart, the Texaco gas station. I never heard from any of them."
Then Mr. Perry turned to Judy Maness at the Waffle House. "I told her I really, really needed a job," he said. Ms. Maness was in no rush. She could barely cope a year ago with 16 employees, but now she has 22.
"She said it depends on what shifts you'll work," Mr. Perry said. "I said I'd work any shift."
He started on Wednesday. Servers earn a base pay of $2.50 to $3.20 an hour, plus tips. Mr. Perry calculates that his earnings will average $50 a day, or $15,000 to $20,000 a year.
All along I-85, the traffic seems about normal, except that nearly all the cars are from in-state. Evenings, the parking lots of motels are less than half full. 
"We had very good business in September last year," said Anand Panchal, manager of the Days Inn at the Shorter, Ala., exit. "This September, we lost more than half of it. October is picking up, but only a little bit." Two weeks ago, Mr. Panchal cut his room rate to $48 from $58. 
In many communities, hiring signs that remain are mere teasers. In Anderson, the marquee in front of the McDonald's next to the Waffle House says, "Now Hiring. Janitor. Career Day." But the sign goes up once a month, even when there's no immediate need for workers. "It's just in case," said Cookie Singleton, an assistant manager. Job-seekers fill out applications that McDonald's stores in its files for a year. 
At the 24-hour International House of Pancakes west of Atlanta in Newnan, Ga., the marquee has been saying "Now Hiring" for three years. "We don't really need that," said Frank Lopez, manager and part-owner. But it helps to keep a reserve of applicants to call on when someone quits or is fired. 
"Our night shift always lags behind in quality," Mr. Lopez said, "so we're always trying to replace people on the night shift."
With an abundance of applicants, "we put up with a lot less," he said. "Before, we put up with a lot just to keep some bodies in here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An already slowing economy was hurt by the Sept. 11 attacks. Above, Judy Maness, manager of the Waffle House in Anderson, S.C., who has her pick of job applicants, stood with her newest employee, Mike Perry.; A McDonald's in Anderson seeks workers, even with no openings. (Photographs by Robin Nelson for The New York Times) Map of South Carolina highlighting Anderson: Along Interstate 85, the unemployed find fewer jobs to seek.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); FABRIC MILLS (70%); TEXTILE MILLS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); CITIES (63%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) RESTAURANTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FOOD; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT; BARS 

COMPANY: WAFFLE HOUSE INC (58%); LOGAN'S ROADHOUSE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (79%); MICHAEL W PERRY (50%) KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (91%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



315 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: WORLD FORUM; 
U.S. Advises U.N. Council More Strikes Could Come

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The United States told the Security Council today that it needed to leave its options open in investigating the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States and could not rule out taking further action against other groups and countries beyond Afghanistan.
 "There is still much we do not know," the United States ambassador, John D. Negroponte, said in a letter that was dated Sunday night and circulated today as a Security Council document. 
 "Our inquiry is in its early stages," he said in the letter, which was addressed to John Ryan, the Irish ambassador and the Council's president for October. "We may find that our self-defense requires further actions with respect to other organizations and other states." 
While reserving the right to strike at terrorists anywhere, the letter did not identify any organizations or countries under suspicion or specify what actions might be taken. The letter offered the Bush administration's justification for the military strikes that began Sunday against the Taliban, who rule most of Afghanistan, and suspected terrorist bases there.
The letter and a similar one from Britain amounted to formal notification to the Security Council of their joint military action against the suspected terrorists and their Taliban protectors. Neither country requested a green light from the Council because Article 51 of the United Nations Charter gives member countries the right to defend themselves, individually or collectively, against armed attack. But such countries are required to tell the Council immediately when they exercise that right.
The military strike against Afghanistan came as no surprise here because the diplomatic groundwork for cooperation was carefully laid by Washington and London. One day after the attacks in the United States, the Security Council adopted a resolution condemning them, and then passed another, on Sept. 28, obliging all 189 member countries to crack down on the financing, training and movement of terrorists. The Council also invoked earlier resolutions that assailed the Taliban for sheltering Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the attacks. 
In a report that underscored the plight of the country, the United Nations Development Program said today that 70 percent of Afghans were undernourished and only 13 percent had access to improved sources of water. Average life expectancy is only 40 years, the mortality rate for children under age 5 years is 25.7 percent and the illiteracy rate is 64 percent. 
At the request of the American and British delegations, the Security Council met for more than two hours to hear their justification for the airstrikes as self-defense. The United States and Britain emphasized that the airstrikes were in not directed against the people of Afghanistan, Islam or the Muslim world.
Mr. Ryan said afterward that the unanimity of support expressed in the Security Council's two resolutions since the Sept. 11 attacks "is absolutely maintained."
Other diplomats said some countries expressed concern that the United States and its allies keep civilian casualties at a minimum and not exacerbate what threatens to become a humanitarian disaster for Afghans, large numbers of whom are facing widespread hunger. 
The United States said in its letter that it had "clear and compelling evidence" that Mr. bin Laden's radical Islamic organization, Al Qaeda, had "played a central role" in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last month.
"These attacks were specifically designed to maximize the loss of life," the United States letter said. "They resulted in the death of more than 5,000 persons, including nationals of 81 countries, as well as the destruction of four civilian aircraft, the World Trade Center towers and a section of the Pentagon." 
Secretary General Kofi Annan, in a statement today taking note of the American and British airstrikes, appealed for an increase in aid for Afghan civilians. 
"The people of Afghanistan, who cannot be held responsible for the acts of the Taliban regime, are now in desperate need of aid," Mr. Annan said. 
The Security Council also found time today to approve new members for two-year terms. The new member countries -- Bulgaria, Cameroon, Guinea, Mexico and Syria -- will take their nonpermanent seats in January. They will replace Bangladesh, Jamaica, Mali, Tunisia and Ukraine.
Syria's election to the Security Council prompted protests from some Jewish groups because it has been on the United States government's list of countries accused of sponsoring terrorism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TALIBAN (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); LITERACY RATES (60%); RELIGION (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) ;SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) 

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; NEGROPONTE, JOHN D (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



316 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CONSUMERS; 
Sales Continue to Pick Up, Despite Start of Bombing

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Perhaps it was the lure of the 50 percent off overcoat sales as the weather turned brisk or the new Denzel Washington thriller, but Americans continued their tentative return to malls, movie complexes and airports over this three-day weekend.
 Immediately after the terrorist strikes at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, sales of almost everything, from autos to evening handbags, declined precipitously. In subsequent weeks, however, shell-shocked consumers had been slowly resuming more normal buying. 
 Despite the bombing in Afghanistan and the threats of terrorist retaliation, data from the Columbus Day weekend indicates that consumer spending, while still well below normal for this time of year, continues to improve at a gentle pace. 
Still, economists are worried that the bombing campaign could temporarily intensify fears over recession and personal security. A survey of consumer attitudes by the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research found that nearly 20 percent of Americans said their sense of personal safety had been "shaken a good deal" by the Sept. 11 attacks.
The survey, which was taken before the airstrikes, recorded a clear link between personal security concerns and pessimism about the economy. If the economy is to recover, this 20 percent must be persuaded that they are secure physically as well as financially -- something the bombings in Afghanistan could make worse before they make better. 
"Restoring consumer confidence becomes more than just a matter of economic stimulus," said Richard Curtin, the economist who oversaw the survey. "A renewal in confidence may also require the restoration of a sense of personal safety among large parts of the population."
While economists worried about the "shaken" 20 percent, the rest of the country got back to spending. The nation's malls had slightly more visitors on the most recent Sunday than on the previous Sunday, according to the National Retail Traffic Index. A spokesman for Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, said the company had "just a perfectly normal Sunday." Although movie theaters were emptier than the studios had predicted, box-office sales were about 9 percent higher than in the comparable weekend a year ago.
Americans out on the town spoke with a kind of "determined to get on with life" bravado.
Along Chicago's Magnificent Mile yesterday, Mike Crandall, 41, was giving no ground to safety worries. He had taken the day off from work as assistant director of the Gurnee, Ill., campus of Columbia College because he had promised his daughter, Colleen, 10, a trip to the big city to spend her birthday money. She spent $70 at the American Girl Store to buy three outfits for her Samantha doll: a cheerleader, a medieval princess and a 60's hippie.
"We aren't changing the way we shop. Why should we?" he asked. "Anything can happen to you anywhere, whether it's flying or shopping, but we aren't going to change our lives."
Scott Gescheider, an ensign in the United States Navy who is based in Athens, Ga., at the Navy Supply Corps School, waited for a flight yesterday morning at Dallas Love Field in Texas. He said the beginning of the American retaliation and the terrorist threats had not affected his willingness to fly.
"Sure, you think about it," he said. "But I think the airports are doing a really good job of keeping security tight. So while you think about it, you just go on with your life."
Yet for all the customers who braved the streets and multiplexes, proprietors were very aware of the 20 percent who stayed home, and hoped they would return soon.
At 2 p.m. yesterday, the only people visible on the lot of a LaFontaine Automotive Group branch in Dearborn, Mich., were a man working his way down the rows of Kias and Hyundais with a soapy bucket and a hose, and an eager Will Gardner.
"Everybody wants to know what the outcome will be" from the airstrikes in Afghanistan, said Mr. Gardner, a salesman at LaFontaine. Dressed in a mustard-colored shirt, with two pens in his pocket, he was ready to sell. 
While salesmen at the dealership said visitors from the community were venturing out and shopping less these days, overall sales had resumed after falling sharply the week after the Sept. 11 attacks, and many had hopes that the action in Afghanistan would not halt the trend. "The 11th was a big surprise," said Kenneth A. Joswiak, the dealerships general manager. "Yesterday, we all knew that was going to happen. It was just a matter of when." 
At the Mall at Chestnut Hill, a cluster of shops in the Boston suburbs, store managers were dismayed by tepid consumer demand.
Although Columbus Day is traditionally a strong one for Crabtree & Evelyn, sales were off significantly, Karen McAuliffe, a supervisor, said. "It's been the same all day," she lamented, with browsers taking a wait-and-see attitude toward gifts or other indulgences. She said she did not know whether the company's sales promotions to spur buyers would change.
Many visitors were concentrating on staples, said Roni Carbone, whose Victoria's Secret store always draws browsers but has not seen much action at the cash register. Lots of young women have come visiting, she said, but they have been buying with an emphasis on basics -- cottons and flannels -- instead of luxury items. 
There was evidence that the first of the reprisal attacks on Afghanistan on Sunday persuaded many moviegoers to stay out of theaters, but even so, it was a lucrative weekend take.
Studios estimated on Sunday morning that the top 12 movies would make $86.8 million over the weekend. They made $82.9 million, all attributable to lower-than-expected ticket sales, but industry insiders were quick to predict a rebound.
"This was certainly not a normal Columbus Day weekend at the box office," said Paul Dergarabedian, chairman of Exhibitor Relations, a company based in Los Angeles that monitors box-office receipts. "Almost certainly, the difference between the early estimates and the actual figures had to do with the news. Even so, things were not off all that badly. People were still going to the movies. It's just part of what Americans do and always have, even in bad times."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers are returning to Michigan Avenue in Chicago, above and right. Mark and Traci Hancock, and their children, above, visited the American Girl store there. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FILM (89%); HIJACKING (77%); RECESSION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MARKETING SURVEYS (56%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (88%) KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



317 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE EQUITIES; 
Stock Market Shrugs Off Air Strikes

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The United States stock market yesterday shrugged off news of the first military strikes against Afghanistan, indicating that investors prefer actually waging war to waiting around for it.
 Early in the day, the broad stock market averages fell approximately 1 percent and remained down for most of the day. But a rally in the last hour of trading brought most indexes back to nearly where they closed on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 51.83 points, to 9,067.94, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost almost 9 points, to 1,062.44. The Nasdaq composite index eked out a gain of less than a point on the day, to 1,605.95. 
 Shares declining the most -- those of banks and entertainment concerns -- reflected investor concerns about the nation's weak economy more than the ravages of war. Investors were heartened to see that United States stocks performed far better than shares in the Asian markets, where the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 3 percent of its value Sunday night. Investors there appear to be reacting to fears that some of the many Muslims that populate Asian countries will retaliate for the airstrikes. Shares in Indonesia fell 3.8 percent, while stocks in Taiwan fell 1.8 percent. Page 15. 
Strategists warned against trying to read too much into yesterday's trading in United States stocks in part because many people -- including bond traders -- were on the sidelines observing the Columbus Day holiday. Fewer than a billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, well down from the 2.3 billion that traded on Sept. 21, when most of the nation's stock indexes hit their post-attack lows. More stocks gained than slipped, but just barely. 
The stability in the stock market, on the heels of its impressive rise last week, encouraged many strategists. "I think the commencement of this attack will improve consumer confidence and the stock market in the not too distant future," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economic officer at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "What really hurts consumer confidence and the stock market over the intermediate turn is uncertainty. I think what we see is uncertainties being turned into risks, and risks, at least, we can quantify."
Traders on the New York Stock Exchange began their day with a moment of silence in support of the military troops in Afghanistan. But the tone on the exchange floor was somber, a contrast to the patriotic fervor that propelled stock prices on Sept. 17, when the markets reopened after the terrorist attacks.
"It's not anything like the mood the first day," said Bernard L. Madoff, chairman of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities. "Everybody is calm. Nobody's anticipating a real market change."
Bank stocks were among the biggest losers yesterday, as investors fretted that a recession would mean rising losses on loans. U.S. Bancorp lost 8.4 percent, and Bank of America fell 3.4 percent. Companies dependent on a buoyant consumer also declined: AOL Time Warner lost 6.1 percent, and Home Depot fell 2.6 percent.
Semiconductor stocks shone as investors seemed to consider them beaten down. Shares of Applied Materials jumped 6.4 percent, while Texas Instruments rose 5.4 percent.
Buttressing the market was increasing confidence among investors that a government package of spending and tax breaks combined with the aggressive lowering of interest rates by the Federal Reserve would pull the economy out of its tailspin shortly.
Stefan Abrams, chief investment officer for asset allocation at Trust Company of the West, said, "Within the space of a month, we've gone from stocks that were overvalued with declining profits and no visibility to undervalued stocks in many sectors and visibility that fiscal and monetary stimulus will produce a steeper recovery starting soon." By his reckoning, stock prices reached their bottoms last month.
Trading yesterday was quite different from the reaction that investors had to war a decade ago. On Jan. 18, 1991, the day after the United States began bombing Iraq, stocks rallied 5 percent. Yesterday, strategists said, anxiety over the potential for new terrorist attacks on American soil restrained the market.
"I think the market is testing itself against some fairly adverse circumstances," said James Moltz, chairman of International Strategy and Investment, an investment advisory firm in New York. "And the fact that it was able to rebound as it did was pretty important and impressive." 
In addition to lower interest rates and government spending, lower oil prices could help turn the economy around. Crude oil prices, which rose 60 cents yesterday, to $22.45 a barrel, have fallen by about 20 percent since Sept. 11, reflecting more concern about dwindling demand than the risk of disruptions in the oil supply.
Consumers, too, will get relief as they refinance their mortgages, lowering their monthly payments or freeing money for other needs. According to I.S.I., refinancings have risen 74 percent in the last two weeks. 
But investors, who took war in stride yesterday, must still weather what is expected to be a savage period of earnings news. In the last two weeks alone, analysts have cut their full-year earnings estimates for the S.& P. 500 companies by 6.2 percent, a record drop for a two-week period. Announcements about third-quarter profits, or losses, will begin in earnest next week. Although most companies with dim prospects have already warned investors, a drumbeat of bad news could depress the market.
Still, stock investors are known to look ahead rather than back, and for those who say the recession will be short, ending early next year, many stocks look cheap righ now.
"We can still get shock effects that can smack things down, but we're getting values in much of the market," said David Dreman, head of Dreman Value Management, a money management concern. "If I had a perspective of two to three years out, I think I'd start to buy."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C15) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); HIJACKING (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); RELIGION (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (63%); BERNARD L MADOFF INVESTMENT SECURITIES (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%) ;MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



318 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1743 words

PERSON: Herblock 

HEADLINE: Herblock, Washington Post Cartoonist With Wit and Bite, Is Dead at 91 

BYLINE:  By MARILYN BERGER 

 BODY:
Herblock, the Washington Post editorial cartoonist, whose critical eye and rapier pen made him one of the leading journalists of his time, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 91.
 His cartoons were a chronicle of politics over the last seven decades, including the atomic bomb, which he dubbed the "atomic bum," the missile defense system informally called "Star Wars" and George W. Bush. Herblock's woodcut-like drawings were peopled with scoundrels on a landscape littered with broken promises and empty slogans. 
 The name on his birth certificate was Herbert Lawrence Block, but to the Pulitzer Prize Board, which recognized him individually three times, and to the readers of the hundreds of newspapers that carried his cartoons, he was Herblock. His pen was dipped less in acid than in a well of perpetual indignation as he cut to the heart of the follies and foibles and outright criminal conduct of world leaders. 
His second Pulitzer Prize was awarded in 1954 for a drawing of Stalin, who was being accompanied to his grave by the robed figure of death. The caption: "You were always a great friend of mine, Joseph." In his customary punchy style, he wrote in one of his 12 books: "The Soviet state builds bodies. Mounds of them."
It was Mr. Block who coined the term "McCarthyism" for the prosecutorial Communist-hunting tactics of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin. He depicted the senator emerging from a sewer, an idea he also used on Richard M. Nixon. Both men were also drawn with thuglike heavy beards.
It was said that McCarthy shaved twice a day to avoid resembling the caricature, as would Nixon. But Mr. Block said no number of close shaves worked because both men had a "moral 5 o'clock shadow." When Nixon was elected president, a Herblock cartoon presented him with a clean shave, but as his administration became mired in Watergate his eyebrows grew heavier, his wattles fleshier. Before almost anyone else, Mr. Block drew the footprints of the scandal leading directly to the White House.
In 1957, Mr. Block delivered the Joseph Pulitzer memorial lecture. The first responsibility of the press, he said, was to "use its freedom to protect the rights and liberties of all individuals."
"The press must speak out and, if the occasion arises, raise bloody hell," he said.
As a cartoonist, Mr. Block did just that. Among his targets were handguns, cigarettes, drunken drivers, segregationists, computers, gold-plated military budgets, cuts in social services, government secrecy and Ronald Reagan's rosy economic theory.
In April 1982, he provided a lasting definition for supply-side economics when he drew a rabbit carrying a basket of eggs called "breaks for the well-to-do" while poor children looked on from the other side of the railroad tracks saying, "He runs out of supplies before he gets to our side."

A Soft-Spoken Satirist
Personally, he was the most gentle and unassuming of men. Almost six feet tall, with a slight paunch and crinkly eyes, he punctuated his sentences with an "oh, hey," or a "golly," or an "oh, boy." His broad A's and hard R's forever marked him as a son of the Midwest.
The manner could be deceiving. Katharine Graham, on his 50th anniversary at The Post, said of him: "Underneath his genius for cartooning lies a modest, sweet, aw-shucks personality. Underneath that lies a layer of iron and steel. For publishers and editors over him, or under him as it would be more accurate to say, it's like having a tiger by the tail."
Mrs. Graham said that journalistic enterprises worked best when writers had autonomy, but added: "Herb's case is extreme. And because he's a genius, it works."
He did not rely on simple genius. He worked hard at his craft.
"When you're the hypocrisy policeman, there's so much to do," said David Hoffman, a colleague at The Post.
Garry Trudeau, the creator of "Doonesbury," admired Mr. Block as a man who wrote out of "a truly deep conviction." Mr. Trudeau said: "I never thought of him either as a liberal or as a conservative but as a satirist with a satirist's conviction that because this is America, there is always room for improvement. That kind of idealism and hope never waned over the decades."
Joseph Rauh, the Washington lawyer, once called Mr. Block "a one-man army enlisted for life in the cause of civil rights and liberties."
In 1955, Richard H. Rovere, for many years the writer of The New Yorker's "Letter from Washington," called Mr. Block "perhaps the most widely admired member of his profession at the present time."
Over the next five decades, his reputation grew. Patrick Oliphant, the syndicated cartoonist, cited Mr. Block's bravery during the McCarthy era, when, Mr. Oliphant said, "you could get in trouble" if you attacked the senator from Wisconsin.
Mr. Block did get in trouble when he demonstrated what Mrs. Graham called his "complete independence of anybody and any thing." In 1952, when Mr. Block's work became critical of the Republican presidential candidate, Dwight D. Eisenhower, because of his support of Senator McCarthy, The Washington Post, which was supporting Eisenhower, dropped the Herblock cartoon for part of the election campaign.
By the time of Watergate and the Iran-contra affair, criticism of government was more generally accepted. In fact, when Mr. Block was singled out by Nixon's first vice president, Spiro T. Agnew, during one of his attacks on the press, he wrote that he got "more congratulatory calls and letters and more envious comments from fellow journalists than a prize might have done."
Herbert Lawrence Block was born in Chicago on Oct. 13, 1909, the youngest of three sons of David and Tessie Block. He started to draw when he was quite young and won a scholarship to the Chicago Art Institute when he was 12. He took classes at night while attending high school and remained a Sunday painter throughout most of his life.
In 1929, he dropped out of Lake Forest College after two years when he landed a job on The Chicago Daily News. His cartoons were syndicated almost from the start. In 1933, he went to work for the Newspaper Enterprise Association, and it was during his 10-year stint there that he won his first Pulitzer Prize, in 1942. In 1943, Mr. Block joined the Army, which employed his talent for cartooning in its Information and Education Division. He was mustered out as a sergeant in 1946 and joined The Washington Post.
He prepared for work by reading the morning newspapers and listening to the radio.

A Reporter's Cartoonist
At 3 or 4 p.m., Mr. Block would make his daily visit to the newsroom. Padding about in carpet slippers or running shoes, and almost always wearing a sleeveless V-neck sweater over a striped shirt, he would stop a copy boy or gingerly approach a reporter. "Got a mo?" he would ask shyly, always apologizing for the interruption. Then, almost like a child coming home from school, he would thrust forward a sheaf of papers and gently ask one of his colleagues to look at four or five of his rough sketches for the day. A meticulous journalist, he would ask specific questions to make sure a caption was exactly right. "Is this right?" "Is this fair?" "Is this premature?"
To be singled out by Mr. Block was a rite of passage for a young reporter in the newsroom, said Benjamin C. Bradlee, the former executive editor of The Post. "Once Herb came to you and showed you his sketches, you could walk among the great ones," Mr. Bradlee said. "It was a mark that you had arrived."
David Broder, the political columnist for The Post, said: "He comes out with this enormously flattering request for advice. People would kill to give that advice, and he apologizes." Mr. Block was sweet and retiring, Mr. Broder said. "All the energy and venom went into the cartoon," he added.
After his tour of the newsroom Mr. Block returned to his office to complete his drawing for the day. If he made any accommodation to age, or to a heart attack that he had in 1959 and the bypass operation that he had almost three decades later, it was to cut back from six to five cartoons a week and, occasionally, to take a nap on a lumpy sofa at one corner of his office, which was notable for its chaotic piles of old newspapers and coffee cans filled with soft-leaded pencils.

A Favorite Target
Mr. Block said he probably did more cartoons of Nixon than of any other public figure, "including such long-in-the-limelight persons as Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Joseph Stalin."
He started drawing Nixon, who was usually depicted as shifty and grizzled, in 1948. Sometimes Nixon appeared as a vulture, other times as an undertaker, always as a man ready to benefit from the failure of others. But Mr. Block said he took no pleasure from the fact that the disgraced president was a cartoonist's dream. "I didn't enjoy it," he said, "I really wanted him out."
Nixon, like Eisenhower before him, canceled the delivery of The Washington Post to his home when his children were young, because, he said, "I don't want the girls to be upset."
In addition to his body of work as a cartoonist, for which he won a Pulitzer in 1979, Mr. Block wrote 12 books, demonstrating, as one reviewer wrote, that if he had not been able to draw, "his incisive wit and pungent prose would have established him as a leading commentator."
In one of those books, "Herblock Special Report," he wrote: "An endless succession of 'new' Nixons kept turning out to be the same Nixon as before. And it occurred to me that we never had to have a 'new' Lincoln or a 'new' Roosevelt or a 'new' anyone worthwhile in high public office."
Mr. Block was never intimidated or beguiled by the powerful and pointed out their mistakes and missteps day after day, year after year. His last cartoon appeared in The Post on Aug. 26.
In addition to three Pulitzer Prizes and a fourth he shared with The Post for its coverage of Watergate, several honorary degrees and dozens of journalism prizes, he was selected in 1966 to design the postage stamp commemorating the 175th anniversary of the Bill of Rights.
In 2000, the Library of Congress mounted a retrospective of his work. President Bill Clinton, who, like all presidents before him, did not escape Herblock's intense scrutiny, awarded him the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1994.
A private person, almost reclusive, Mr. Block was never drawn into the Washington social scene. He never married. In the newspaper's staff directory, he listed The Washington Post as his home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A frequent subject of Herblock cartoons was the atom bomb, shown left in 1947, but his favorite target was Richard M. Nixon, right.; Known for his drawing, Mr. Block also coined the term "McCarthyism." (George Tames/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); MISCONDUCT (69%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (67%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CARTOONS AND CARTOONISTS 

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON POST 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

RICHARD NIXON (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%) BLOCK, HERB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Art 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



319 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani to Ask City Agencies For Broad Cuts 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani planned today to ask city agencies for broad spending cuts in response to the heavy losses New York has endured since the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center last month. State and city officials also were close to reaching an agreement on a new federal aid request seeking billions more dollars to stem those losses and keep businesses in Lower Manhattan.
 Among the measures the mayor is said to be considering is imposing a hiring freeze across city agencies during these last few months of his administration. 
 While his aides guarded the details of his budget proposals, which he planned to announce today, several people familiar with his plans said they expected him to ask most city agencies to trim as much as 15 percent from their budgets to help compensate for a staggering loss of tourism and city revenue as a result of the attack on Sept. 11. 
The estimates of damage and cleanup costs, as well as lost revenue, have ranged from $40 billion at the city level, to $50 billion between the city and the state. City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi announced a two-year estimate last week of more than $100 billion, including $34 billion in property damage and up to $60 billion in economic costs, including lost jobs and lost rents. 
Much of the federal emergency aid already approved by Congress will probably be used to pay for damage and costs of the cleanup.
But city and state officials have been working hastily for several days to prepare a plan for additional aid that they want to take to the White House within the next few days. That plan is expected to go far beyond the $17 billion New York is already getting. 
A portion of this proposal will involve incentives to assist businesses and try to retain those who were displaced. For example, some details emerged yesterday of requests that might include proposed tax breaks for corporations and would range from $5,000 to $10,000 per displaced employee. Another possibility being discussed for inclusion in the package of proposals involves seeking federal approval for more bonds that would allow developers to finance projects on a tax-free basis, which could save them, and presumably a tenant, millions of dollars. Another possible proposal would reimburse businesses $10,000 in taxes per job that is retained in Manhattan.
Some of these proposals would require federal approval or legislation. In addition, state officials would need Congressional approval to use some federal aid to plug general revenue gaps. 
In New York City, the mayor's planned budget adjustment will not severely affect uniformed services. The Fire and Police Departments, the city agencies that suffered the biggest personnel losses, are not expected to undergo much in the way of cutbacks.
The Board of Education may be among those hit much harder. And while it is unclear how labor negotiations that were pending before the attack will fare now, teachers appear to be the most vulnerable, according to those involved with the budget process. Cuts will most likely not come in the form of layoffs, since most municipal contracts negotiated earlier this year barred them. 
The mayor said yesterday that the city's budget was "the strongest in the country" and that his practice of conservative revenue estimates and other factors would help mitigate the budget shortfalls and projected gaps. In the next fiscal year, beginning July 1, the city's budget will be roughly $4 billion short, city and private budget experts said.
"So I think there's a way to deal with this that will require agencies to take a very, very good look at what they're doing and be careful, but not have a major impact on services, and also allow us to go ahead with tax cuts and tax reductions so that we keep our economy stimulated," the mayor said.
He said the next mayor would have a balanced budget by the end of the year, and, he predicted, maybe even a surplus. 
The city has lost millions of dollars in revenue since the attacks. A conservative estimate of lost tourism dollars in the first two weeks afterward was $163.7 million. The revenue losses are expected to grow as personal and corporate taxes from Lower Manhattan businesses dry up.
The costs of cleaning up the debris, including the overtime pay for uniformed workers, is expected to be picked up by the federal government. Right after the attack, Congress appropriated $20 million to help out the disaster sites in Manhattan, Virginia and Pennsylvania; roughly $17.5 billion is earmarked for New York City, where costs are estimated to be at least $38 billion. 
But the city and state will still find themselves behind on the revenue side of the balance sheet. The state has said only that it expects to lose between $1 billion and $3 billion this year in tax revenue and $2 billion to $6 billion next year.
While the city and state want the federal government to offer even more financial assistance to help with lost revenue, opposition in Congress is likely to make that difficult. It is highly unusual for the federal government to help make up for lost revenue after a disaster, and lawmakers from states that have suffered hurricanes and other natural disasters are not expected to like the idea of allowing New York City to set the precedent. 
"There will have to be some prioritization," said Senator Charles A. Schumer of New York. "What we have to determine, and we'll try to get everything done, is which are the greatest needs and which ones will meet the least resistance." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (96%); TERRORISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CITIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); TRENDS (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); RELOCATIONS (64%); AIRLINES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



320 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW; 
Disputing the Focus on bin Laden

BYLINE:  By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN 

 BODY:
As much as Hitler during World War II or Nikita S. Khrushchev in the cold war, Osama bin Laden has emerged as the enemy incarnate for an America fighting Islamic terrorism. Soon after President Bush declared he wanted Mr. bin Laden "dead or alive," in cowboy parlance, shooting ranges in the United States began selling targets of this bearded, turban-clad villain. Mr. bin Laden appeared to relish the role, judging by the tape of himself declaring holy war that was broadcast by the Pan-Arab Al Jazeera cable network after American and British forces launched air strikes on Afghanistan.
 The intense focus on Mr. bin Laden, however, may be not only inflating his importance but obscuring the deeper, broader and thus less eradicable roots of radical Islam's assault on the West. That is the implicit and unmistakable lesson to be taken from the documentary "Looking for Answers," which will be shown on PBS tonight. 
 Jointly produced by "Frontline" and The New York Times, the hourlong documentary clearly and disturbingly traces the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon back more than 70 years to the birth of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. Rather than emphasizing the causes that Mr. bin Laden has offered for his jihad -- American support of Israel, sanctions against Iraq and a military presence in Saudi Arabia -- the documentary argues persuasively that the terror network has arisen largely in reaction to alleged corruption and oppression by Arab governments themselves.
This conclusion hardly amounts to a dismissal of Mr. bin Laden's prominence. The documentary -- produced by Martin Smith, Lowell Bergman, Michael Sullivan and Eamon O'Connor, with Mr. Bergman serving as the on-screen correspondent -- depicts Mr. bin Laden's Qaeda organization as the most recent and aggressive strain of a decades-old phenomenon in the Arab Muslim world.
"The American government doesn't get it," says Ahmed Sattar, an aide to the fundamentalist imam, Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, who is serving a life sentence for attempted terrorist acts. "You can kill Osama bin Laden today or tomorrow. You can arrest him or put him on trial. This will end the problem? No. Tomorrow you will get somebody else."
Michael Sheehan, the head of counter-terrorism in the Clinton administration, offers this perspective: "Bin Laden is a symbol but he's more important than a symbol. He is the psychological leader, the spiritual leader of sorts for these people. But he also is important in terms of financing and providing a sanctuary for them in Afghanistan, where they're able to organize themselves, train and also flee after an attack."
Moving across decades and nations, "Looking for Answers" connects disparate events into a coherent line of descent leading to Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda. The Muslim Brotherhood, brutally suppressed by the secular government of Gamal Abdel Nasser in the 1950's and 60's, resurged under the relative freedoms granted by Anwar el-Sadat. The Islamists, defined by their vision of a fundamentalist theocracy, exploited legitimate economic grievances: prices for staple foods, little employment for the educated. 
When Sadat made peace with Israel, the Egyptian Islamic Jihad killed him. And when President Hosni Mubarak then renewed a Nasser-style assault on the Islamist movement, its leaders used rage and resentment at those tactics to further build their ranks.
In Saudi Arabia, the documentary contends, the corruption of the ruling House of Saud inspired Islamist opponents. "Who can believe that a country pumping nine billion barrels a day with a small population between 15 and 20 million is in a $200 billion debt now?" asks a Saudi dissident based in London, Saad al-Fagih. "Why would this happen unless there is a massive loot of our resources by a conspiracy between the royal family and the Americans?"
For moderate Arab countries allied with the United States, then, no approach seems able to stifle radical Islam. Persecution helps it, but so does freedom. Materialism helps it, but so does poverty. Secular nationalists provide convenient targets, but so do officially Islamic regimes if they engage with the West.
The different strands of Islamist opposition came together in the war against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan. And they did so with arms and money from the United States. Although that point could have been made even more forcefully, "Looking for Answers" does include one painful image of American naivete -- film of George Bush, then vice president, hailing the Islamist Mujahadeen for having "earned the admiration of free men everywhere."
The victory over the Soviets left the Islamic radicals believing, as Mr. Sattar puts it, "If I can defeat the evil empire, I can defeat anybody else." The evolving coalition of Islamist terror groups soon made its mark on the West, bombing the World Trade Center in 1993, gunning down tourists in Egypt in 1997 and destroying American embassies in Africa in 1998. None of this information is new, of course, but the documentary marshals it into an effective, chilling chronology.
If the United States may be fixating on Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda too exclusively now, then "Looking for Answers" maintains that America and its allies probably focused on him too little until it was too late. The Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, at one point recalls a missed opportunity to have seized Mr. bin Laden in 1996, when he was forced to leave his sanctuary in Sudan for Afghanistan.
"To be honest with you," Ambassador Sultan tells Mr. Bergman, "we never gave him the weight that now everybody is giving him. We thought he was a nuisance, and he was bad for image of Saudi Arabia, of Islam, his family. We never thought of him as the bin Laden who is doing all this. Just get rid of the guy. Just go away and disappear."

FRONTLINE -- Looking for Answers
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13 in New York, at 9)

A co-production with The New York Times and Rain Media Productions in association with Granada Factual USA; producers, Martin Smith, Lowell Bergman, Michael Sullivan and Eamon O'Connor; correspondent, Mr. Bergman; executive in charge for The New York Times, Michael Oreskes; director of television programming, Lawrie Mifflin; reporters for The New York Times, Judith Miller, Jeff Gerth and Tim Weiner; executive producer for Frontline, David Fanning.
WITH: Lowell Bergman, Lew Schiliro, Ahmed Sattar, Rifat el-Sayed, Gen. Fouad Allam, Edward Walker, Nabil Fahmy, Dr. Saad al-Fagih, Milt Bearden, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, Richard Armitage, Hassan Turabi, Sheik Ali Shee, Michael Sheehan and Nabeel Musawi.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Osama bin Laden, second from left; his top lieutenant, Ayman al-Zawahiri; and Abdulaziz Abu Sitta. The man at left was not identified. (Associated Press, via Al Jazeera)(pg. E1); Pakistani militants at a rally in Islamabad. (AP/Wide World Pictures)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); COLD WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); ARRESTS (64%); SENTENCING (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); ARMED FORCES (50%) TELEVISION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; REVIEWS; ISLAM 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%) ;FREEDMAN, SAMUEL G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: FRONTLINE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



321 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Disaster the City Can't Face Alone 

BYLINE:  By Felix Rohatyn; Felix G. Rohatyn, ambassador to France from 1997 to 2000, was chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation from 1975 to 1993.

 BODY:
"Anything it takes to help New York." That sentiment from George W. Bush, expressed on Sept. 13, is in obvious contrast to the feelings of an otherwise not-so-different president, Gerald Ford, as summarized in the famous 1975 Daily News headline: "Ford to City: Drop Dead." President Ford eventually did come to understand that the country couldn't afford to let its largest city, then in fiscal crisis, go bankrupt. Now, in a disaster for the city economy that has very different causes, President Bush's continuing support will be crucial. New York does not have the resources to recover on its own.
 The city is in greater economic jeopardy today than it was in the fiscal crisis of 1975, and Gov. George Pataki, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and our Congressional delegation should propose a long-term federal program of assistance. New York has the country's sympathy and admiration: under the leadership of Mayor Giuliani and with the strong support of Governor Pataki, the city and its citizens have conducted themselves heroically after a murderous assault. President Bush immediately offered $20 billion in federal assistance, and for the moment, Congress appears to be supportive. But the long-term prospects are daunting. 
 Before Sept. 11 the city was already feeling the bite of a significant national downturn. This came on top of the stock market collapse of Internet and telecommunications companies, serious downward pressures on the financial services sector, and the increasing impact of these declines on city revenues. The additional emotional and economic shocks of Sept. 11 are only beginning to be perceived. They are already quite serious; their ultimate impact is impossible to predict.
The city has had 20 consecutive balanced budgets, in good times and in bad. The fiscal structure and controls created in 1975 -- the Municipal Assistance Corporation and the Financial Control Board -- helped achieve this good record. But estimates of the city deficit in the next fiscal year are now put at $4 billion and are likely to rise to at least $6 billion. Estimates of the state's revenue losses in the same period are $2 billion to $6 billion.
For the last year or so, the weakness of our economy has been understated by economists looking for rosy scenarios and by securities salesmen on television trying to prop up the stock market. But to a very weak economy we have now added the shock to public confidence created by the terrorist attacks, as well as a huge national loss of jobs -- the airline industry alone expects to eliminate 100,000. The result is bound to be negative for the city and the state. Alan Hevesi, the city comptroller, has estimated the total economic loss to the city as a result of the attack on Manhattan at more than $100 billion, a truly staggering figure.
In this context the city and the state have to be treated as a single unit. Few remember today that in the winter and spring of 1976, the State of New York was shut out of the public markets and was unable to sell its bonds because of the fiscal weakness of the city.
It took five years, from 1975 to 1980, with enormous sacrifices on the part of all New Yorkers, with the strong support of the city's labor unions and the banks, to close a gap of about $1.5 billion on a city budget of $15 billion. And this took place in a relatively benign economic environment, at a time when New Yorkers, by and large, were confident that we would prevail. Now we are facing a potential deficit of $4 billion to $6 billion on a $39 billion budget. Is it reasonable, under existing circumstances, to believe that the city and the state can close budget gaps of possibly $6 billion each in one fiscal year and maintain the city as a viable economic and social entity?
It would be impossible to do so as a practical matter, but it would also run counter to President Bush's stimulus program. New York will not be the only city with a large budget deficit next year, though it will have the biggest one, some of it due directly to the attacks on Sept. 11. Nor will ours be the only state in trouble. Layoffs throughout the declining economy, both reducing revenues and increasing costs for state and local governments, will undo many of the positive effects of any federal stimulus program proposed by President Bush.
It is urgent that our governor and mayor, with their counterparts in other parts of the country, develop with the Bush administration a plan of short-term assistance to states and cities, one that would prevent what is likely to be a hard national recession from turning into a real depression. Such a plan could include a temporary assumption by the federal government of certain state and local costs, coupled with incentives for local tax reductions, federal guarantees to pension funds for the financing of infrastructure projects, and private-public partnerships for functions like school construction.
In 1975, after years of overspending and excessive borrowing camouflaged by accounting fictions, New York was widely viewed as the main culprit in its problems, deserving of a bankruptcy. Federal help in the form of loans and loan guarantees came only after President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of Germany warned Mr. Ford that a New York bankruptcy would set off a crisis for the dollar and impair America's credit. Now New York has a good fiscal record as well as the nation's sympathy, and its importance to the national economy is well recognized.
As long as the international situation remains as cloudy as it is now, as long as Americans have to respond to calls on the one hand to live a normal life and on the other to be ready for more terrorist attacks, it is unrealistic to expect a strong economic recovery. We should be realistic about what this implies. We were able to deal with the last fiscal crisis mostly with our own resources. This is no longer possible for us or for many other cities and states. Until the national economy recovers and national confidence is restored, we cannot do this alone.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Podwal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TERRORISM (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); HIJACKING (63%); AIRLINES (60%); LAYOFFS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%) ROHATYN, FELIX G; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



322 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Anxious Days in Pakistan 

 BODY:
Though Afghanistan has become the first battleground in America's war against terrorism, Pakistan could well be the political epicenter of this unfolding conflict. The United States can win the military confrontation in Afghanistan but lose the war if Pakistan, with its 142 million people and nuclear weapons, falls under the control of Islamic fundamentalists. That is why the latest actions of Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, require the closest attention of the Bush administration, which is dispatching Secretary of State Colin Powell to Islamabad later this week. 
 By arresting a leading dissident and replacing his top military and intelligence commanders in recent days, General Musharraf has bought short-term support for his decision to cooperate with the United States. With his permission, American and British bombers and cruise missiles have flown through Pakistan's airspace in the last two days on their way to targets in Afghanistan. 
 But in dismissing powerful aides who helped bring him to power two years ago and managed Pakistan's close ties to the Taliban, he has added kindling to a highly combustible political climate. As President Bush prosecutes his campaign against terrorism and Osama bin Laden, he must be mindful of General Musharraf's fragile position.
For most of its troubled history since independence and partition from India in 1947, Pakistan has been plagued by coups, insurgencies and sometimes repressive military rule. The sensitivity of the Pakistanis to perceived assaults on Islam combined with anti-American fervor in 1979 when a mob torched the United States Embassy in Islamabad because of rumors of American involvement in crushing a rebel takeover of the Great Mosque in Mecca. The problem is compounded by the decision years ago by Pakistani military and intelligence services to forge a close relationship with the Taliban. The move was in part an effort to make sure that Afghanistan would not foment violence among the restive Pashtun population among the villages and refugee camps on Pakistan's northwest frontier.
Until now, General Musharraf has generally exercised restraint toward those in his country who do not support the new alliance with the United States. Demonstrations, in turn, have been noisy but restrained. But the general needs to remember the dangers of cracking down on dissent, which can easily provoke more turmoil, particularly among the well-financed religious parties. 
The United States can help the general by showing the public that supporting the destruction of terrorism under Mr. bin Laden will bring its rewards in the form of American economic and perhaps military aid to Pakistan. General Powell will undoubtedly discuss such possibilities during his visit to Islamabad. He also plans a stop in India.
There are some things that the United States must not do, such as encouraging Pakistan to support the Muslim rebellion in the Indian state of Kashmir or to expand its nuclear weapons program. Washington must still strive for a peaceful resolution of nuclear tensions in the subcontinent, including treaties and agreements to control testing and production of nuclear materials. There must also be a peaceful settlement of Pakistan's dispute with India over the future of Kashmir.
One measure of General Musharraf's obvious anxiety over his new close alliance with the United States came yesterday with his call for limiting the air war in Afghanistan and for the installation of a new government in Kabul that would be friendly to Pakistan. In response, the United States must be sensitive to the Pakistani leader's concerns but not let him dictate the conduct of the war against terrorism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TALIBAN (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TRENDS (77%); COUPS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HIJACKING; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); KASHMIR (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



323 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GERMANY; 
Berlin's Support of the U.S. Puts Greens in Uneasy Spot

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The Greens, junior partners in Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's coalition, neatly caught their own predicament in a statement today that on one hand supported the American fight against terrorists but on the other stressed that "the use of the military is never a solution to problems."
 Mr. Schroder, eager to underline Germany's relevance and seriousness as a trans-Atlantic partner, has sought to make a meaningful military contribution to the attacks on the ruling Taliban in Afghanistan. 
 In this, Mr. Schroder has the full support of his foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, the senior member in the government of the normally pacifist Greens. 
On Saturday, Mr. Fischer, much to his relief, won support from a special congress of Greens' state leaders.
But the longer this war goes on, the harder it will be to maintain the coalition's solidarity and support for Washington, key politicians here say. With federal elections a year away, the Greens face an existential dilemma, with their participation in a government engaged in a war a sign of political maturity to some, but to others, possibly a death knell for the party itself.
Today's statement tacitly acknowledged the fix. American actions to fight terrorists, "whom the Taliban regime has continued to harbor and support even after the criminal attacks on the United States, are justified," it said, especially since the American actions "are not aimed at Afghan cities or the Afghan civilian population."
And yet, it stressed, "it remains necessary that these military actions stay part and parcel of a comprehensive political plan."
The uncertainty surrounding the Greens has fed much speculation here that Mr. Schroder and his Social Democrats will turn eventually to the liberal Free Democrats as a coalition partner.
"In some ways, the Greens are not seen as a party that is needed anymore by a new generation," said Angelika Koster-Lossack, a Green legislator, expert on South Asia and party spokeswoman for economic cooperation and development.
"The challenges of this new world are tremendous, and we never assumed it would be like this," Ms. Koster-Lossack said. "After the breakdown of the cold war and the confrontation of the two empires, we should have expected many more smaller conflicts. But we tried to believe in the best."
The Greens were born in the 1968 student rebellions against imperialism, capitalism and the Vietnam War, and much of the left that grew up at the time is fundamentally skeptical of the United States.
In 1997, a year before he became foreign minister, Mr. Fischer told his party that he did not expect that "an expression of commitment" to NATO would be necessary, even in government.
But the attacks on America, by Islamic militants supported by a country that has been relentlessly reported to mistreat women, children and minorities, have pushed the Greens toward the Americans.
Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats are also having some problems with this war. His conversion to strong support for the United States is a sincere but relatively recent phenomenon. Aides say he sees this latest challenge as an important moment for his party and his generation, with Germany's interests lying clearly with Washington.
Both he and Mr. Fischer have done well, said Friedbert Pfluger, a Christian Democratic member of Parliament and an expert in security and alliance issues. "Schroder understood that you have to be either on the side of the United States or not, but his leeway to demonstrate that support is limited," he said, explaining that it is constrained by the Greens and narrower than that enjoyed by Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain or President Jacques Chirac of France. 
Mr. Pfluger, a member of the opposition, said it was important for Germany and NATO to contribute to this fight against terrorism. "But are we politically and militarily good enough to really contribute, over the long haul? And if not, are we relevant enough for the future?"
Robert von Rimscha, the expert on Parliament for the newspaper Der Tagesspiegel, said the threat to Mr. Schroder and the coalition was that prolonged military action might see the Greens eventually paralyzed by their divisions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



324 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MOSCOW; 
Tying Russia to West, Putin Unveils Strategy, But Risks a Backlash

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Until this month, critics here dismissed President Vladimir V. Putin's foreign policy as little more than tactics -- a trip to Cuba to appease nationalists, one to Germany to mollify liberals -- trying to placate everyone, but offering no strategy for Russia's future.
 Now Mr. Putin has been forced into offering an almost breathtaking vision of the country's future. And suddenly, the question is whether he has the tactical skills to achieve it. 
 There is broad agreement that last month's terror attacks on New York and Washington effectively pushed Mr. Putin into choosing between a Russia allied with no one, and a Russia bound to the West -- and that he chose the latter.
His statement today at a government meeting here could have been lifted intact from recent speeches by British Prime Minister Tony Blair: a ringing condemnation of terrorist strikes "monstrous in their brutality," aimed at sapping civilized people's will to resist.
"But humankind has matured after the horrible tragedy on Sept. 11," he said. "I think their arrogance and self-confidence has been the terrorists' undoing. They did not expect the international community to show such cohesion in the face of a common threat."
Mr. Putin's own challenge is to create cohesion in his own country. Anecdotal evidence and public opinion surveys suggest that his internationalist stance is, for once, far ahead of not just the average Russian, but of the military and political elites on whom his power partly rests.
In a poll conducted from Sept. 21 to 24 by Russia's National Center for Public Opinion and Research, 48 percent of respondents expressed sympathy for the plight of the United States after the attacks.
But 50 percent said that "it served the Americans right," and 54 percent called for Russia to remain neutral in the conflict. Russian Communists, who still command the votes of a quarter of the electorate, are calling the crisis an excuse for the United States to seize control of Central Asia. Many in the military echo that.
"If you listen to the elite types, many of them, he's fighting the pack," said Dmitri Trenin, an expert on Russian geopolitics at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Moscow Center. "Many would still say he's selling Russia for a song; that he's giving and giving and giving and not receiving anything in return.
"As someone put it," Mr. Trenin said, "the Yeltsin-Gorbachev syndrome of unilateral concessions may now be prolonged into the Putin presidency."
For all their popularity in the West, Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin are almost universally seen here as the agents of the demise of Soviet greatness. Tarring Mr. Putin with the same brush could be politically fatal for him.
So far, he has tugged Russia into the alliance against terrorism on the strength of his own immense popularity. More than 7 in 10 Russians consistently approve of Mr. Putin's performance in most polls.
But many experts believe that that rests in part on Russia's surprising economic rebound in the last year. That could be strangled by any crisis that causes a steep recession.
In a speech in the United States last week, President Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, praised Mr. Putin for engineering a historic turn in East-West relations. But to sustain any turn to the West, many analysts say, Mr. Putin needs not praise, but a response.
The United States and Germany have tacitly agreed to take a second look at the role of terrorists in the conflict in Chechnya, the breakaway region in Russia's south. And last week, the American trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, spoke in Moscow of accelerating Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization.
Apart from that, Mr. Trenin and other Russia experts say Mr. Putin has little to show for his efforts so far. But the dance between Russia and the West is still in its early stages.
Robert Legvold, a Columbia University historian with ties to American government specialists on Russia, suggested in a recent interview that Mr. Putin also may be seeking relatively narrow forms of assistance from the West, like intelligence on Central Asian hot spots. 
Mr. Putin already is pressing for greater economic integration not only into the world trade structure, but the European Union. And he has called publicly for speedy consideration of Russia's entry into NATO -- a practical impossibility, but something which might be symbolically achieved through a mutual security pact between the Western military alliance and Moscow.
Such an agreement would resolve a host of Russian questions about its own exposure in the developing war against terrorism. Russians frequently complain that they have been asked to contribute to that struggle with none of the security guarantees offered to European and North American nations fighting the same battle.
"People in the West don't realize that now that he's made a strategic move -- not just in foreign policy, but in many ways the boldest move he's ever made as president of Russia -- the domestic constituency that supports him is rather weak," Michael McFaul, a Russia scholar at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, said in an interview.
Mr. McFaul offered his own list of slights: Russia still labors to win most-favored-nation trading status under the Jackson-Vanik amendments, which were intended to punish Soviet restrictions on Jewish emigration. NATO nations remain barred from buying Russian weapons, although a Russian threat to NATO is vanishingly small.
"The military doesn't support him. The military-industrial complex doesn't. Even the liberals are divided. And even societal attitudes, they're rather split," Mr. McFaul said. 
"So that leaves him exposed," he continued. "If he doesn't show that Russians get something out of this new full-fledged reorientation toward the West, he could easily back away toward what he did before -- back toward the tactician, finding the medium on every issue."
One longtime Russian student of East-West relations, Georgi Arbatov of the government's United States-Canada Institute of Studies, believes that unlikely.
"Before, he was a very modest man in intelligence and couldn't think about such global matters. Now, and I think it is encouraging, he changes himself.
"He becomes a real statesman," Mr. Arbatov said. "And of course, we don't know how far he will go. But there is hope."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); FOUNDATIONS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); TONY BLAIR (53%) WINES, MICHAEL; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



325 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Role Transformed by Alliance With Bush 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer traveled across his home state today, from Buffalo to Rochester to Syracuse, announcing the resumption of some commercial flights upstate but also taking time to try to reassure New Yorkers of their safety.
 It was, in a way, a typical day for Mr. Schumer. As the state's senior senator, he has switched from cheerleader to counselor to lawmaker, sometimes alternating among all three roles in the same day in the weeks since the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Mr. Schumer has also seen his responsibilities transformed and broadened, becoming an unlikely ally, at least temporarily, of the Bush White House. 
 For example, the administration recently turned to him in its effort to win approval of an antiterrorist measure that raised some privacy concerns.
Only a few months ago, an alliance between Mr. Bush and Mr. Schumer would have been highly unlikely, if not unthinkable. But the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington have created a strong bipartisan mood here in the Capitol, at least on some issues. 
The measure advocated by the White House would allow the government, among other things, to get its hands on the financial records of people suspected of terrorist activities more quickly, a move that raises privacy concerns. But having a Democrat like Mr. Schumer on board potentially gives the measure bipartisan appeal -- and might minimize criticism from the left.
Mr. Schumer's support was noteworthy enough that Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, recently phoned a reporter to discuss how helpful the senator had been on this and other matters. "If Senator Schumer's bipartisanship is contagious," Mr. Fleischer added, "all the better."
People close to Mr. Schumer and Mr. Bush say that the two men have developed a cordial relationship in the attack's aftermath, directing their staffs to work together to size up the damage to New York and determine what Washington can do to help.
Mr. Schumer said that his opinion of the president changed just hours after the attack when he walked into the White House, along with other members of New York's Congressional delegation, and asked for $20 billion in disaster relief aid for New York. "He really showed his mettle to me," Mr. Schumer recalled of the president and his commitment to persuading Republicans to go along with the initial aid request.
There have been some openly warm exchanges between the two men, such as when the president greeted Mr. Schumer with a pat on the cheek on the night Mr. Bush told Congress that the nation would go to war over the terrorist attacks.
And Mr. Schumer chuckled over the fact that he, too, like many in the Bush cabinet and on Capitol Hill, had finally been given a nickname by the president. It is Ellis, Mr. Schumer's middle name. "We're not bosom buddies," Mr. Schumer added. "Don't get me wrong."
Whether Mr. Schumer will be able to parlay this arrangement into anything more is an open and critically important question. New York political leaders are hammering out a proposal seeking billions in federal funds to help New York's economy recover from the attacks. But already, Republicans on the Hill are voicing skepticism about whether Washington can fully meet New York's plea for help beyond the $20 billion already set aside for disaster relief for the city and state. 
Mr. Schumer's aides say he is counting on the president to help overcome any resistance from Congressional Republicans.
Even if the two sides were not actually cooperating on some policy matters as they clearly are, they are talking about each other in ways that would not have seemed possible a few months ago.
"Chuck is a nice man," one White House aide said in explaining the sudden change.
"He is a friendly guy," Mr. Schumer said of the president. "He has a way of putting you at ease."
Both sides know that the lines will divide again and that Mr. Schumer will have sharp differences with the White House on certain issues.
But at the same time, both sides clearly want to use the good will to advantage. Mr. Fleischer recently recalled, for example, that the president had an economic stimulus plan that required Congressional approval. Some Democrats are balking, but Mr. Fleischer playfully suggested that the White House was counting on its new friend. "Now let's hope he votes for the president's stimulus plan," he said of Mr. Schumer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); DISASTER RELIEF (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (93%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY); ROCHESTER (NY); SYRACUSE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



326 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: POLITICAL MEMO; 
On Home Front, Bush Seeks to Avoid His Father's Fate

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
One of President Bush's most vital assets as he leads the military operation in Afghanistan is that Americans, overwhelmingly, have rallied behind him. His advisers say that if he is to succeed in getting his way on both the military and domestic fronts, he must maintain that steadfast public support for as long as he can.
 But there is a downside to Mr. Bush's impressive popularity ratings: No one believes they will last. 
 "When you're sitting on 90 percent," said Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, "there's only one way to go -- and that's down."
A danger for Mr. Bush is that he has to wrestle with an array of unfolding developments that could imperil his public support. Many pollsters agree that people are so enraged by the attacks that they are willing to tolerate American military casualties in combatting terrorism.
That raises the question: What constitutes combatting terrorism? These pollsters say that Americans expect Mr. Bush to have a clearly defined and achievable objective.
Then there are the wild cards: what happens if there is another attack or if American casualties are higher than seemed necessary?
Further complicating the issue of public support is that many pollsters argue that Mr. Bush's biggest vulnerability is not in the military campaign but the economy.
If the country's economic woes worsen, they say, the public will be touched more by that than any perceived terrorist threat. Some public opinion experts also say that people might feel more comfortable defecting from the president on the economy, since it seems to be more in his direct control than battling terrorists on foreign soil.
William McInturff, a respected Republican pollster, concluded in a recent nationwide survey that "there is dramatic new evidence of increasing concern about the issue of the economy and jobs." 
In addition, he said that if there were no other attacks in this country or major change in the efforts to fight terrorism, Mr. Bush's "job approval rating could drift back down to the mid-50's by roughly June of 2002."
The three presidents who enjoyed the most enduring surges in public opinion -- roughly 30 weeks apiece -- were Franklin D. Roosevelt after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, John F. Kennedy after the Cuban missile crisis, and Jimmy Carter after the hostages were seized in Iran.
Yet all the historical evidence does not necessarily serve as a guide, because this country has never in modern times been so threatened on its own turf. Despite predictions that the economy could trump worries about the war in commanding public attention, it could be that Americans are so unnerved about their own safety that they will continue to offer the president unyielding support.
John Mueller, a political scientist at Ohio State University who has written extensively about war and public opinion, said people might not give Mr. Bush credit for winning a war against terrorism because the goals, inevitably, are amorphous.
"The thing about wars is they end," he said. "But now we're having victory in this war defined as a situation in which Americans feel free to live their lives. It's not like, even, getting the hostages back from Iran because then there was a goal, you did it and it was over."
Mr. Bush's aides say they realize that they have only so much time to capitalize on his public support. They note that while the public's attention could wane, the terrorists' does not. And if the support slips, it would be more difficult for Mr. Bush to maintain bipartisanship in Congress and to maintain discipline within a multilateral coalition.
As one senior administration official put it, "The clock is not on our side."
Mr. Bush's advisers said that Mr. Bush believes that his father, the former president, squandered his political capital during the Persian Gulf War by focusing almost exclusively on the military operation and not on the declining economy.
They said Mr. Bush was determined not to repeat that mistake of his father, whose high approval ratings evaporated when the war ended.
So Mr. Bush has put a premium on a two-track public opinion strategy: Rallying the country to war and explaining the goals at every turn, while taking visible steps like proposing a stimulus package to jolt the economy.
"All the historical research shows that if you have a military conflict and the economy is in trouble, the political impact of the economy on voting and approval ratings is much greater than the military conflict," said Robert J. Blendon, an expert on public opinion at Harvard.
"My belief is that Bush has got six months or a year of public support unless there's some disaster," he added. "If you start combining casualties and the message at home is that the goals are not resolvable, then you'll start seeing support going down."
Senator Sam Brownback, a Kansas Republican, agreed that maintaining "90 percent favorability is a tall order."
"The economy is likely to get in much more difficult shape before it gets better," he said, "and it's likely that we're going to see retribution from the terrorists as we get at them. It may get more people questioning the administration: 'Was that the right action to take?' "
Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist who worked for Mr. Bush in the 2000 campaign, said, "It's going to be a constant challenge" for the president to convince the public that he is supervising the military effort while not neglecting the economy.
"Some of these roles he has to play can be competing," he said. "As you prepare the country mentally for a war that could take over a year, if not years, that can have a dampening effect on the economy."
Mr. Bush's aides have long insisted that they are not driven by polling -- and have resisted comparisons to former President Bill Clinton, who could recite survey statistics off the top of his head. Still, Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Bush "appreciates the support he receives from the public." He added: "In a democracy, public support is always important."
Senator McConnell asserted that the president should move even more aggressively on economic and other domestic matters to capitalize on the support while it is there.
"I do think the administration needs to walk and chew gum at the same time," Mr. McConnell said. "They need to conduct a war effort and also know there are other needs to be addressed."
Some Republican strategists suggested that people might forgive Mr. Bush for a deteriorating economy, saying they might blame the terrorists. "Will people say a bad economy is a function of external threats?" Mr. McInturff asked. "It's a debate we're having inside our firm between different partners."
One who knows about ratings firsthand is former President Gerald R. Ford. Asked how long Mr. Bush -- or any president -- could maintain high support, Mr. Ford laughed and said, "It's pretty flexible. You have to be realistic about it. It can dive as much as it can rise."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about President Bush's popularity ratings since Sept. 11 referred incorrectly to crises that faced Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter. They were not entirely free of threats to the American mainland. Roosevelt faced some during World War II, notably Japanese bombing runs over Oregon, which set off forest fires, and balloons with incendiary bombs launched by the Japanese against the West Coast.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter all experienced extended surges in popularity while facing major offshore crises. But none were confronted by a mainland attack. (Associated Press); (Associated Press); (Bettman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); EVIDENCE (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



327 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
WENDY'S TO MISS FORECAST FOR 3RD QUARTER AND YEAR

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Wendy's International, the hamburger chain, said yesterday that it expected third-quarter and full-year earnings to fall short of Wall Street forecasts because of slower sales after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. The company said it expected third-quarter earnings of $52 million, or 44 cents a share, up from 41 cents a year earlier. 
For the full year, it predicted earnings of $1.64 to $1.67 a share, compared with $1.44 a year earlier. Analysts expected Wendy's to earn 46 cents a share in the third quarter, and $1.69 a share for the full year, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. Wendy's said the slowing economy, the strength of the United States dollar against the Canadian dollar and higher beef costs also hurt results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CURRENCIES (65%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



328 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Switzerland: Insurer's Loss Estimate 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Olson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Zurich Financial Services has doubled its estimate, to $900 million, of the claims it expects to pay from the September terrorist attacks in the United States. 
The company has already twice reduced its earnings forecast this year, causing a sharp drop in the stock price. The Swiss company said it also expected lower investment income in the current economic downturn to cut back its profits. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); HIJACKING (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (59%)

ORGANIZATION: ZURICH FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP 

TICKER: ZURN (SWX) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (59%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (59%)

PERSON: ;OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001 



329 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Cars; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: IN THE SHOWROOM; 
New Cars, New World, New Doubts, New Deals

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: CHERRY HILL, N.J. 

 BODY:
FOR car dealers and buyers, early fall is usually a bustling time, a period when the new year's models are about to be shown and the deals on the previous year's overstock make a shopper's blood run faster. 
 This year, it need hardly be said, is different. Car sellers, like all retailers, have been hit with a couple of blows. The first, the sagging economy, was already a problem when the second -- last month's terrorist attacks -- struck, sending flagging consumer spending spiraling even more downward. Big-ticket items like autos were especially hard-hit. 
 The outlook in the near term has been anything but cheerful. Americans, however, tend to be resilient, usually eager to get on with things. And they're not particularly good at resisting that new-car urge once it takes hold. So on a Friday several weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, a reporter visited a number of car showrooms here and in the neighboring towns of Marlton and Mount Laurel, N.J., just southeast of Philadelphia, to see if there were some buyers and to assess their mood. 
The first person encountered was not a customer but Edward Albertus, the general manager of Mercedes-Benz of Cherry Hill, who shrugged at the suggestion that the attacks had slowed the pace of buyers coming into his dealership. 
"All right," he said, "for a few days it was not so good, but the next Saturday we sold eight cars. (In an average week, he said, his dealership sells about 30 cars.) "Other places, maybe they are down," Mr. Albertus said, "but our customers seem to still want to buy." 
Though random and informal, the interviews bore out Mr. Albertus's assertion. Customers were not out in significant numbers, but they seemed determined to buy.
The reasons behind their determination were the extremely attractive loan rates -- as low as zero interest for 36 months to qualified buyers -- and the discounted price tags on many 2001 models.
If an added incentive was needed, it came in the form of a patriotic call to duty. Red, white and blue was the predominant motif at most dealerships. The doors at Winner Ford were plastered with posters saying "Give It Your Best" under an American flag. Even the Mitsubishi and Honda dealerships were festooned with balloons and large American flags.
"If you are ready to buy," said Thomas Flynn, the sales manager at Winner Ford, "this is a great time to get a lot of attention." 
Veronica Williams was ready to buy -- although not a Ford. She and her husband, Robert, came to Cherry Hill Dodge from Camden to shop for a replacement car for her 1993 Intrepid, which no longer has a working transmission.
"I've never really bought a new car, always used," Mrs. Williams said. "We're leaning toward used, but I'd like something new." She gazed longingly at a black 2002 Intrepid ES, with a moonroof, air-conditioning, CD player and other extras, for $26,820.
Mr. Williams said he was not particularly worried about the economy, but added, "Something could always happen that would affect my thinking." But Mrs. Williams, who is a sales representative , said she could not be without a car for long. "I'm not that worried about the economy," she said. "In fact, I don't even want to be away from work to buy a car. If there is one thing going for us, it is that there may be deals because people are worried that the economy isn't that good." 
Lily Wu said she was not in a rush to buy a car, but she knew she wanted a Mercedes-Benz. She has owned them before and liked them. "And I have found a good service team here, so that encourages me, too," she said of the Cherry Hill dealership.
"I am looking for a used car, something two or three years old," she said. She had already seen a dozen cars, her favorite being a 1999 E300 Turbo with extras like a six-CD changer, a sunroof and an eight-speaker sound system, with a sticker price of $39,900.
Ms. Wu said that while she had not been overly concerned about the economy, the terrorist attacks had given her pause. "But my friends said, 'Spend some money, it's patriotic,' " she said with a slightly uncomfortable laugh. "So that is what I am going to do." 
Dennis Duffy, who lives in Philadelphia and works in a school for the disabled in Haddonfield, N.J., was spending his lunch hour car shopping. He said he had not been to a car dealership since the 1980's, but his Ford Ranger pickup truck is now 14 years old, with "about a billion miles on it," he said. 
THE week before he had seen ads offering zero percent interest over 36 months at Ford dealerships. He called himself a Ford man, so that was enough for him. "I told my wife I was going in, and she said, reluctantly, 'O.K.,' " he said. "There isn't going to be a better time to buy. I hate to take advantage of the potential war and all, but the financing deal is just too good." 
Mr. Duffy was looking long and hard at a 2001 XL Ranger Supercab with a five-speed automatic transmission and air-conditioning. The sticker price was $18,260, which did not seem to faze him.
"I'm not going to pinch pennies if that is what I find I want," he said. "This deal won't get any better." 
Gary Heck, who was helping his mother, Helen Kaminski, shop for a car, said they had planned to visit several dealers, including foreign car showrooms, but a traffic jam caused them to go by Saturn of Mount Laurel, where they liked what they saw.
"Mom, I like the room for you here and I can sit comfortably in the back seat," said Mr. Heck, who lives in Voorhees, N.J.. He was at the dealership, sitting in a new Saturn L200, listed for $19,375 with air-conditioning, a CD player and other small extras.
Ms. Kaminski, who walked quickly with the help of a cane, lives in Allentown, Pa., about 70 miles away. Like Mrs. Williams, she was looking for a car to replace one that had recently died.
"I want something reliable and moderately priced for her," said Mr. Heck, who said he was less concerned about the economy and prospects of war than about his mother. "A new car is what she needs," he said, "so we'll be buying, one way or another." 
Mel Gerstein, a salesman who lives in Marlton, said that he was concerned about the economy, "but my car is coming off warranty on Dec. 1, and I'm pretty sure I'm going to replace it by then."
Mr. Gerstein said that at first he thought he would replace his go-to-work car, an Oldsmobile Bravada sport utility vehicle, with something foreign, and had looked at Lexus, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and even Jaguar dealerships. But that was before Sept. 11.
"Absolutely, I want to buy American now," said Mr. Gerstein, who was reading the catalog at DeSimone Cadillac in Mount Laurel.
"I'm lucky," he added. "I've owned Cadillacs before, and I like this dealership." 
On this particular day he was looking at a 2001 DeVille with leather seats, a 4.6-liter V-8 engine, daytime running lights and an Onstar communications system. He decided, however, that he would wait for a 2002 model.
"I may be wary of the economy, but I still want something as new as possible," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lily Wu, shopping for a used Mercedes-Benz, above, said that the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 have given her pause. But friends told her that buying a car now is the patriotic thing to do, she said.; Veronica Williams, left, with her husband, Robert, at Cherry Hill Dodge, thought the slowdown in the economy might lead to better deals. Mel Gerstein, above, originally wanted a luxury import, but the events of Sept. 11 led him to DeSimone Cadillac in Mount Laurel, N.J., where, he said, he can "buy American."; Dennis Duffy, above left, who calls himself "a Ford man," likes the financing being offered, but doesn't want to "take advantage of the potential war." Gary Heck, center, and his mother, Helen Kaminski, in a 2002 Saturn L200, are buying a car no matter what, because she needs one. (Photographs by Michael Branscom for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RETAILERS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); INTEREST RATES (61%) AUTOMOBILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



330 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Cars; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: When More Options Are Standard, the Choices Boil Down 

BYLINE:  By JIM McCRAW 

 BODY:
THERE was a time, when the moving assembly line was young, that all cars were built pretty much the same way and all the customer could choose was the body style and the number of doors. Almost every item of optional equipment, from radios and heaters to rear-view mirrors and spare-tire covers, was arranged for and installed by the selling dealer.
 In today's market, with as many as 17 million new cars and trucks sold each year, even small, inexpensive cars come with power steering, power brakes with anti-lock systems, power windows, power mirrors, power locks, automatic transmission and AM/FM/CD sound systems. The reason is simple: economies of scale mean it's easier and cheaper for factories in the United States, Japan, Korea and Europe to build them that way. And customer expectations of what is standard have risen to this level. 
 A number of carmakers, among them Ford and DaimlerChrysler, are devising ways to refine the option selections even further.
Ford recently announced changes in the way many of its 2002 models would be built and sold, with most car lines having more models, all built the same way, but with fewer options at generally lower prices.
"The objective is to minimize the number of orderable combinations, and get the right ones to the dealers and customers," said John Jelinek, a Ford marketing spokesman. For instance, he said, "On the Ford Focus, we went from over 9,000 orderable combinations last year to 152 for 2002."
Mr. Jelinek said that last year about 40 percent of Ford's customers reported they were unable to find the car they wanted in dealer stocks or were forced to buy a car with items they didn't want to get the items they did want. The new system was offered on certain models last year, with positive consumer response. Now it will be expanded to the Taurus, Excursion, Escape, Crown Victoria, Thunderbird and Windstar, among others, making it easier to comparison shop on the Internet, Mr. Jelinek said.
The Chrysler Group has shocked the industry by lowering prices on most of its 2002 models while generally keeping its standard equipment lists intact. Price reductions vary from $450 on a Dodge Neon (now $12,204) to $1,200 on a Chrysler 300M (now $28,340) to $2,000 on a Jeep Grand Cherokee (now $25,425), averaging $200 across the board. 
Chrysler also had Internet shoppers in mind. "We took a holistic look at all our vehicles in an attempt to get to 'right' pricing, to get less dependence on incentives and to help the more than 60 percent of all automotive consumers who do research on the Internet before they buy," said Thomas R. Marinelli, an executive of Chrysler and Jeep Division Global Brand Center.
"We're trying to make it as easy as possible," he continued. "On the new Jeep Liberty, there are only two models, the Limited and the Sport, with four option packages on each model." The Liberty option list offers a convenience group (things like power windows, mirrors and door locks), an off-road group, a power convenience group and a security group on either model, in addition to 28 individual options, from a bigger engine to bigger tires, anti-lock brakes, air-conditioning, a six-CD changer and a sunroof. 
THE company also looked at what should be standard and what should be optional on each of its car and truck lines, to simplify the offerings and price classes, Mr. Marinelli said. He added that in 2000, the company created a Dodge Grand Caravan minivan and a Chrysler Town and Country minivan, called the EX, a well-equipped minivan priced for Internet shoppers at $26,500, with no incentives. This year, there will be an EC version for $16,995, and an EL long-wheelbase minivan for $24,300, both aimed at Internet shoppers, neither one eligible for incentives.
A notable exception to the trend toward simplicity in options is Toyota, which offers a large number of free-standing options in its various models. The popular Camry for 2002 offers anti-lock brakes, keyless entry, a six-CD changer, a navigation system, moonroof (also called a sunroof), aluminum wheels and heated seats as individual options, but Camry also offers nine different packages of options on the Camry alone.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When this 1926 Model T was new, above, the only option was four doors instead of two. In 1957, a large variety of Thunderbirds were available. For the 2002 Crown Victoria, the ordering process is simpler again. (Photographs courtesy of the Ford Motor Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (55%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER GROUP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: MCCRAW, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%); NORTHERN ASIA (56%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



331 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Cars; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Old-Fashioned, High-Powered or Just Max Deluxe 

BYLINE:  By DAVID J. WALLACE 

 BODY:
IN every generation, a few adventurers feel the need to put their name on hood ornaments by reinventing the sports car, reviving a classic marque or building the ultimate car in luxury or speed. The members of this small group are not building automobiles but "motor cars," as they call them, striving to give each one a unique look.
 Some of these carmakers are more like cosmetic surgeons than automakers or mechanics. Zimmer Motor Car Company, for example, gussies up Ford and Lincoln cars, leaving Detroit's factory warranty in effect. Other companies modify the engines, chassis or body designs of large manufacturers. 
 Using parts from Detroit or Stuttgart can help these independent carmakers succeed, even in an uncertain economy. They do not need huge plants to produce the cars, a capital cost that helped sink John DeLorean, who designed and manufactured a gull-wing sports car in the 1980's.
These carmakers have other advantages. Seeking exclusivity over broad appeal, they may sell only dozens of cars a year. Such low output allows them to build custom cars. Profit can be a secondary consideration, and some businesses act as tax shelters. Others hope that their innovations can be spun off profitably in the racecar industry or the mass market. 

Revivals
AVANTI(www.theavanti.com) Reincarnated more often than Shirley MacLaine, the Avanti, a flat-nosed sports car with porthole headlights, has a new life after a decade in dormancy.
Designed by Raymond Loewy for Studebaker, the car was an overnight success when it was rolled out in the early 1960's. In 1963, however, Studebaker stopped production in the United States. Since then, half a dozen owners have tried to revive the brand. John Seaton, the current chief executive of Avanti, worked for several of these owners from 1968 to 1983. In 1999, he bought a stake in the company himself.
Today's Avanti resembles the original, but its fiberglass body is stitched to a General Motors chassis, and it has a modified 330-horsepower Corvette engine. A T-top coupe is $79,000 and a convertible is $83,000.
ZIMMER (www.zimmermotorcars.com) Arthur Zimmer was driving a Chrysler minivan in 1995 when he encountered a gleaming roadster, which coincidentally bore his family's name. At his wife's urging, he bought a 1987 Zimmer Golden Spirit for the novelty. "A car was just basic transportation to get from point A to point B," Mr. Zimmer said, "until I saw this gorgeous car with my name on it."
Mr. Zimmer, an entrepreneur in Syracuse, had already ventured successfully into the restaurant, hotel and publishing businesses, so he decided to revive the carmaker as Zimmer Motor Car Company in 1997, because the original company had gone bankrupt. 
"I figured I knew nothing about manufacturing cars, so I'd be a natural," he said. "I've never even changed my own oil."
Although he calls himself semiretired, he has several businesses, and said that he expects steady growth for Zimmer, which is currently breaking even. Starting with a Ford Mustang or a Lincoln Town Car, Zimmer creates his roadsters by extending hoods and adding chrome sidepipes. The cars retain their Ford warranty because the engine is untouched, he said.
A two-door coupe starts at $89,900 and goes up to $135,900 for the four-door sedan.

High Performance
MOSLER (www.moslerauto.com) Warren Mosler, an economist, found his calling as a racecar builder. Since the mid-1980's, the company's Consulier, Intruder and Raptor cars have attracted the attention of racecar enthusiasts, thanks to innovations like V-shaped windshields, which reduce wind resistance.
Mr. Mosler's new racecar, the MT900, was designed by computer and is very light. The MT900 is expected to be certified for consumers with crash-testing and emissions-testing, Mr. Mosler said, by the end of this year. A racecar version is $119,000; the street version will cost $159,000, according to the company.
PANOZ (www.panozauto.com) Panoz Auto Company retired its AIV roadster last year and introduced the Esperante sports coupe, a more traditional-looking convertible. 
The first Esperante was sold last year, said Jack Bair, the marketing director. The company plans to turn out about 100 cars each year, said Mr. Bair, who compares the performance of the $79,950 Esperante with the Porsche 996 and the Jaguar XJ-8. The Esperante uses the Ford SVT engine and an aluminum chassis and body with a warranty from Panoz, though Ford-trained mechanics can work on the car, Mr. Bair said.
SALEEN (www.saleen.com) The S7, which looks as aggressive as a tiger shark complete with gills, is the latest product of Saleen, which until now has concentrated on selling modified vehicles, primarily Ford Mustangs. The founder, Steve Saleen, chose Brembo brakes from Italy and Connolly leather from England for his low, wide, long and light 550-horsepower car. At $375,000, the S7 is said to have a 0-to-60 mile-an- hour time of four seconds and a top speed above 200 m.p.h.
"We've sold 41 of them," said Jack Gerken, a spokesman. "We plan about 100 a year for four years."
Mr. Gerken said the company offered its own warranty because it had to obtain its own certification for emissions and crash-testing. This is the case for all companies that build new cars, even if they are substantially modifying other vehicles.
SHELBY (www.shelbyamerican.com) Carroll Shelby is well known for his Cobra racecars and for vehicles that he created for Ford and Chrysler in the 1970's and 80's. The Series 1 convertible, his latest model, introduced last year, was built with a modified Oldsmobile Aurora V-8 engine. Prices start at $142,000 and, depending on options and upgrades, can rise to $219,000 for a 370-horsepower version, according to Gary Patterson, who coordinates online ordering.

Luxe
CUNNINGHAM Ford is not the only auto company with a family legacy. In 1952, Briggs Cunningham II built the C4R, considered by many in the industry to be the first modern racecar. His son, Briggs Cunningham III, plans to build a grand-touring car, dubbed the C7, modeled after the classic Stutz or Duesenberg. 
Expected to come out by late 2004, the C7 will have an aluminum V-12 engine and room for four adults, said Larry Black, a principal in Cunningham Motor Car Company. The C7 will cost about $250,000, said Mr. Black.
PACKARD (www.packardmotorcar.com) The Packard Motor Car Company, only six years old and based in Phoenix, has been testing two touring cars with a custom-built aluminum engine and all-wheel drive system, said Roy Gullickson, the company's president.
These Packards have been completely redesigned, though they have nostalgic touches, like the original script logo and imposing grilles, which harken back to the elegant 12-cylinder cars last produced in 1958.
"We first showed the car at Packard clubs three years ago," Mr. Gullickson said. "Since then, we've been continuing with engineering and development."
The company has no production schedule and is still seeking financing, Mr. Gullickson said. But he estimates the cars will cost about $155,000 for a sedan and $175,000 for a coupe or a convertible, which, he pointed out, is less than a Rolls-Royce or Bentley.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zimmer Golden Spirit; Avanti; Packard 12; Saleen S7; Mosler MT900 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (56%); PUBLISHING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



332 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Cars; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: HOW WE DRIVE; 
The Fine Art of Shifting Slips Into a Lower Gear

BYLINE:  By LESLEY HAZLETON 

 BODY:
IN the world of car guys, not all of whom happen to be male, it's an axiom that if you want to drive (really drive, that is, not merely commute or cruise), you'll choose a stick shift. 
 Car magazines use a special language for stick shifts. They write of going "snik-snak" through the gears, while if I heard sniks or snaks from my transmission, I'd drive straight to the repair shop. 
 They love "short-throw" shifts, where you only have to move the stick a couple of inches into gear, though devotees of old pickup trucks and Citroen 2CV's, like myself, still hanker for the long throw. And they rave about buttery smooth gear changes -- a description that really isn't apt, because the real feeling of a good manual transmission is soft and pliable, with an edge, like suede. 
But the sign of a true car guy is the way he or she handles the stick shift before even starting the car, getting the feel of it in the palm of the hand. 
Of course, not all stick shifts are alike. The golf ball on top of the aluminum stick of the new Beetle doesn't have quite the heft of the luxurious leather one in the Honda S2000 roadster. But even a golf ball is better than what you get on an automatic transmission, which is basically a prosaic handle. More like the grip on a shovel, in fact. And there's nothing very appealing about shifting with a shovel.
How you use that gear knob is a kind of driver's Rorschach test. Some tend to grab the knob as though they are wrestling, and move their whole arm to push the stick into gear. Those who strive to be masters of finesse use a magician's legerdemain, a lightness of hand: a forward flip of the palm or the fingers for first, third or fifth gear, and a backward flip for second, fourth and, if you're lucky, sixth. 
Sadly, this sort of dexterity is rapidly becoming an anachronism, at least in the United States. Car-guy axioms notwithstanding, it looks as though the stick shift is nearing extinction.
For decades, the number of automatic transmissions sold has been steadily declining about a percentage point a year. The latest National Automobile Dealers Association figures show that manuals were only 8.9 percent of all cars sold in the United States last year, down from 9.8 percent in 1999 and 10.6 percent in 1998. Almost a quarter of all Porsches sold in the States are automatics, and even Ferrari -- yes, Ferrari, the ne plus ultra of the car-guy pantheon -- went automatic in l995 on its four-seater 456 MGTA. 
At this rate, it looks like the stick shift will go the way of the carburetor within the next decade. But while fuel injection is a boon to all but shade-tree mechanics, the automatic transmission is not quite as clear a gain. True, it makes driving much easier, but it also makes it less interesting. You lose the poetry inherent in auto-motion.
What happens to the dramatic gesture if you can no longer spin the wheels, pop the clutch and roar off leaving a faithless lover to eat your dust? What happens to the exhilarating effect on your internal organs as you're flattened against the seat in a high-speed takeoff? What happens to the sheer fun of being able to turn the cheapest econobox into a mini-Ferrari by working it up through the gears with a firm foot on the gas pedal?
Equally important -- O.K., far more important -- what happens to your control? 
Stick-shift aficionados swear they have greater control over their cars. Terry Earwood, the chief instructor for the Skip Barber Racing School, readily backs them up. 
"With a stick, you're more involved with the car, so you're paying more attention to driving," Mr. Earwood said. "And the car is more responsive. The liquid coupling in an automatic transmission means there's some time loss between the gear shift and the transmission of power to the wheels. With the mechanical coupling of a manual transmission, you don't get that lag; a stick driver is more in control."
GREATER control certainly means greater safety. Well, almost certainly, because there's no way to tell for sure. Crash and moving-violation statistics do not track types of transmission. And while some safety experts are at least willing to speculate that drivers of standard shift cars are less likely to use a hand-held cellphone until they come to a stop, here again, there are no statistics to prove it.
In the end, though, the choice between manual or automatic transmission is not really about safety, or control, or drama or even sexiness. No, it's far more mundane. A single Sunday evening on the Long Island Expressway inching along with a manual transmission, shifting gears dozens of times a mile, is enough to convince most stick-shift drivers that the time has come to give in and go automatic. Even the most suedelike shift begins to feel like congealed grease. Legs and hips ache. The commonplace nuisance of a traffic jam becomes a form of torture. 
If you happen to live in a city of hills, as I do in Seattle, the toll on body and mind is compounded. Never mind that I love cornering hard by shifting down and powering through the turn. And don't let's talk about that surge of engine power vibrating through the gear knob into the palm of my hand. 
I confess: I'm only human, I drive an automatic.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Cars section on Wednesday about gear shifting misstated the type of transmission that is becoming less common. Automobiles with manual transmissions, not automatic, have been declining in the United States at the approximate rate of 1 percent a year. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Seymour Chwast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORTS CARS (87%); GOLF (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (65%) AUTOMOBILES 

PERSON: HAZLETON, LESLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



333 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: LIFE'S WORK; 
Restaurants Grieve, Family Style

BYLINE:  By LISA BELKIN; This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TO an outsider it looked like a reunion, which, in a way, it was. Friends greeted friends with hugs and with tears. "I've missed you so much," someone said. "It feels like years since I've seen you." Someone else walked over to the front plate-glass window and smoothed the edges of the American flag where the tape had sagged. Then the group filed into the empty party room to hear what their boss had to say.
 Tony May's business card says he is the owner of three restaurants, but the card is a month out of date. Mr. May owns but one restaurant now: San Domenico on Central Park South, where he has gathered his workers for this dinnertime meeting. 
 The dozens of men and women crammed into the party room are refugees from Gemelli's and Pasta Break, two restaurants that disappeared with the World Trade Center. Waiters and busboys, chefs and bartenders, they are part of a separate layer of loss. Yes, they are alive, but the support beams of their lives are broken. They worry about paying the rent, about filling the hours of the day, about the panic that invades their dreams.
"I had a job that I liked, a boss that I liked, but now it's gone," said Idi Diawara, who used to be the manager of Pasta Break.
He was at work at the Trade Center early that last morning, opening the restaurant for the breakfast rush, when there was a noise "like when you put the A.C. on," and then the lights flickered. He left the building to investigate, saw the flames where the first plane had hit, then returned to clear out the other employees and lock the door.
When the second plane hit he began to run and did not stop moving until he reached his apartment in the Bronx.
Mr. May as well does not want to stop moving, because then he would have to confront all that he has lost. Instead, he keeps himself busy worrying about workers like Mr. Diawara. Several days after his restaurants were obliterated, he called the staffs together and promised to pay their health insurance for six months and to keep them on at half salary until his reserves ran out. At that first meeting he taught them how to apply for unemployment, and also brought in a psychiatrist, Dr. Alan Manevitz, to listen if they wanted to talk.
For hours, they spilled their stories -- of watching bodies fall, of being chased by clouds of debris. Dr. Manevitz was particularly concerned about one worker who sobbed through the entire session. He asked her to telephone for a private appointment, but she never called. So Mr. May brought the doctor back again, for this second meeting in his burnished wood party room.
Sitting at the front of the group, the doctor looked even more drained than the workers. Already on this day, he had been to talk to a group of bereaved firefighters and a group of widows from Cantor Fitzgerald. "Is anybody having trouble sleeping?" he asked. A few hands are raised. "Are you more irritable with your family?" More hands. "Nightmares? Trouble eating?" Nearly everyone nodded. 
"I don't even want to leave my house," said the woman who sobbed through the last meeting. 
"You were supposed to call me," the doctor said, gently, and she started to weep again.
"I have a job for you," Mr. May blurted out. He planned to send out fliers to rustle up more business for his one remaining restaurant, and he offered to hire the woman to stuff those fliers into envelopes. 
Mr. May started to spin out other ideas to keep the woman from crying: vocational courses ("If it is not an exorbitant amount of money, we might even be able to help pay for it"), travel ("Many of you have family outside the U.S., this might not be a bad time to go and visit them"), volunteering ("Sometimes you can help yourself by getting out and doing things for other people"). They nodded at his suggestions, but everyone in the room knew the truth. As hard as he tried, he could not give them the one thing they all needed.
"It's not going to be easy for you to find new jobs," he said finally, "because the entire restaurant industry is behind 30 to 40 percent. We are trying to find some locations where maybe we would reopen the restaurant. But it will be a number of months before we can put you all back to work."
When the talking was through, dinner was served -- a family-style meal like the ones they used to share before each restaurant shift. The pasta and chicken were devoured in near silence, as Mr. May walked among the group. He patted a shoulder here, shook a hand there. Once or twice he reached into his pocket and fished around for a copy of his outdated business card.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); HIJACKING (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (63%); AIRLINES (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); REFUGEES (54%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RESTAURANTS; LABOR 

PERSON: ;BELKIN, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



334 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1955 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Quiet Dining Rooms, A Quiet Crisis in the Kitchen 

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
AT Town, one of the year's most successful new restaurants, Geoffrey Zakarian is no longer flying in fresh turbot from France, because the restaurant can no longer afford it. He's using local fish instead.
 Rather than foie gras, Christina Kelly at Avenue is serving duck liver mousse. The price: $6 versus $15. 
 At Abajour, where the prix fixe menu has been dropped to $19.95 from $25, gulf shrimp have been replaced with less expensive popcorn shrimp. Halibut has been swapped for catfish. 
At Union Pacific, a menu called "market treats," which featured exotic sushi from Japan, top-quality caviar and esoteric herbs, has been dropped. Instead, Rocco Di Spirito said, "We're running a menu that's slightly smaller but that has friendlier choices." Like steak and mushroom soup.
While small neighborhood restaurants have been thriving since the terrorist attacks, high-end restaurants all over the city have watched their businesses fall by as much as 50 percent. For many, that has meant layoffs, lower prices and promotions that they would have never imagined during the economic boom of recent years.
But deeper changes have taken hold, too: chefs are tiptoeing instead of swaggering, pulling back from experimental dishes and innovative menus, and not always reaching for the best ingredients. It may be a temporary reaction to quiet dining rooms, or a change for the long term -- for now, nobody can say what the effect will be on New York's remarkable growth as a restaurant city. In recent years, the city was considered to have overtaken Paris as the culinary star of the world. Now, it looks like a town of timid and frightened cooks.
There is reason for restaurateurs to worry.
Last week, Peacock Alley in the Waldorf-Astoria closed for good. So did Virot, a promising new restaurant run by an acolyte of Jean-Georges Vongerichten. Daniel, perhaps New York's most revered restaurant, stopped serving lunch for lack of business. Charlie Palmer cut prices 10 to 15 percent at Alva, his casual restaurant in the Flatiron district. Abajour, an Upper East Side bistro, sent out 30,000 cards offering free dessert.
"There's no question that things weren't great before the disaster," said Mr. Di Spirito, the chef at Union Pacific. "The disaster just sort of sealed the deal."
Since Sept. 11, tourism in New York City has fallen drastically, deeply affecting destination restaurants like Tavern on the Green, Picholine and Aureole. Trendy restaurants like Peasant and Mercer Kitchen downtown have also suffered, while business-lunch traffic in Midtown has slowed to a crawl.
"I used to go out to lunch three, four times a week," said John Kim, a banker at J. P. Morgan in Midtown. "Now, I just want to order in a sandwich. Everyone in my office is doing the same thing. No one wants to go out."
To reverse this trend, some restaurants have resorted to behavior usually associated with theme restaurants. Shelly's New York, Redeye Grill and Trattoria Dell'Arte began Red, White and Blue Wednesdays, when they are filled with red, white and blue balloons, all containing prize tickets. Diners may win a bottle of wine, a dessert or a T-shirt. Abajour began Monday Menu Roulette, placing a menu without prices into the stack and giving the diner who receives it a free dinner.
D'Artagnan has a waiter dressed as a musketeer handing out leaflets on the street. Restaurant Associates, which owns 10 restaurants, including the Sea Grill, Tropica and Brasserie 8 1/2, promised to send $50 gift certificates to the first 25,000 people to respond to an Internet offer. A week was allowed for responses, but within 48 hours, the limit was reached. "They were coming in about two per second," said John Harding, the director of marketing. "It was like watching an electricity meter running."
For diners, the impact of such changes is far-ranging. Deeper price reductions may make some restaurants newly affordable. You may get into Balthazar, and they may actually be nice to you.
But in many cases, you will also have a different kind of dining experience. Lower prices may mean dining on more modest kinds of food, and a more modest style of cuisine. "We've analyzed our menus," said Mr. Zakarian, the chef at Town. "And we've definitely determined that we're going to be less celebratory than before. We'll be using truffles and foie gras, but not nearly as much." Instead, customers will see more refined takes on homey dishes like navarin, stews and soups.
At Avenue, one of the small bistros that have prospered during recent weeks, Ms. Kelly said, "I've been very conservative, trying to be more clever about the way we do things."
"I just don't use anything baby anymore," she said. "Truffles are going to be another issue. I think a lot of people are going to start turning to truffle butter."
Rather than lobster, she will serve crab. Rather than Chilean sea bass, she will cook local fish like fluke and skate.
In some cases, like foie gras, which had become cliched, this all may be for the better. "It's so played out," Ms. Kelly said. "It's so rich. I think people have gotten away from that."
While many menus are shrinking, it's hard to predict what will happen next. Each restaurant is conducting its own experiment, hoping the results will allow it to stay in business, from reducing prices to responding to the mood of people's appetites.
"I notice people are drinking like crazy," said Mr. Zakarian at Town, "and gorging on fatty foods. I know, myself. I've been eating hamburgers like crazy."
At Metrazur, the bar business has grown so much that the management has changed the lounge menu and begun offering reduced-price supersize martinis and other drinks at happy hour.
"They're not so interested in sitting down to a dinner," Charlie Palmer, an owner, said. "They want to eat burgers and pizza." So he expanded the menu and cut the prices of pizza by a few dollars.
It's a big adjustment, after a boom that threw up unprecedented obstacles to diners, from stratospheric prices and condescending attitudes to reservation books filled months in advance. While it would be nice to rid the restaurant scene of such annoyances, it is important to note that during the boom, New York dining experienced a surge of creativity and progress not seen since the days of Le Pavillon.
The Harrison, a restaurant that is to open in TriBeCa this fall, has scaled back plans for its wine list. Originally, the list was to have included 500 wines, at $18 to $500. Now, there will be 220, at $18 to $250.
"There aren't a lot of luxury wines going out the door," said Mr. DiSpirito at Union Pacific, which had planned to buy $100,000 worth of wine this fall. "Obviously, we're not doing that now."
Restaurant Associates is also draining its current supplies and starting a wine program that will offer high-quality wines at lower prices. De Loach's Russian River Valley Chardonnay and its single-vineyard cabernet sauvignon will be selling for $20. "Basically, we're just cutting back our margins," Mr. Harding said.
D'Artagnan is offering the same kind of deals on its food. Takeout sandwiches, which used to cost $7.75 to $9, have all been reduced to $6. And P.B.J.'s they are not. For $6 you will get saucisson with truffle butter and smoked duck breast with red wine jelly. The $36 early-bird dinner is now $29, including three courses that could easily have cost twice that two months ago.
Such measures are not an overreaction. The first week following the terrorist attacks, Union Pacific's business was off 80 percent. Since then, it has crept back, but is still down 30 percent from this time last year. Check averages at Aureole are down 25 percent. In addition, the number of diners has been 30 percent lower than normal.
Mr. Palmer has reduced menu prices at Alva 15 to 20 percent. There, too, wines by the glass, which used to be $8 to $14, are now all $8. Some staff members have been laid off, others moved around. "Now at Aureole, Gerry Hayden, my head chef, is down to one sous-chef," Mr. Palmer explained. "And so now I fill in in spots when it's needed."
It is an almost unfathomable reversal, considering the fact that last year, restaurants around the country were so desperate for cooks, waiters and sommeliers that they were poaching them from each other. Now, even top chefs are having trouble finding work.
"It's Darwinism," said Alfred Ehrlich, the owner of Kitchen Maestro, a headhunter for chefs. "The strong will survive and get stronger. And we'll learn from what happened, just like in 1987, when the market crashed and the gulf war."
For those involved, it hasn't seemed so clear and simple.
"The last recession, you had a gradual drop in business," Mr. Palmer said. "When this thing happened, the business just dropped off so dramatically, so quickly. It's just hard to react to anything like that." All of his managers have taken pay cuts; Mr. Palmer has not had a paycheck for more than a month. "It's not my choice," he said. "There's just no money to take."
With fewer diners, each customer might receive more attention than before. But the reduction in servers may also mean poorer service. Rather than four people swarming around your table, there may be just two. Rather than a trained, high-salaried sommelier fetching your wine, it may be an inexperienced minimum-wage busboy who does not drink wine.
It is difficult to gauge what will happen in the coming months. "I'm worried about all of the cutbacks that are coming," said Steve Hanson, the owner of several restaurants in Manhattan, including Ruby Foo's and Ocean Grill. "I think we'll stay about where we are until the end of the year, but I'm deathly afraid of the first quarter of '02."
As Mr. Zakarian put it, "It's like a tsunami hitting after the earthquake."
Restaurants preparing to open have regrouped, bracing themselves for whatever may unfold. Suba, which is to open on the Lower East Side later this year, has already decided to cut the prices of its entrees to $20, from $22 to $25.
Meanwhile, restaurants like Brunelli, on the Upper East Side, which have neither the buffer of name recognition nor generous investors, are struggling to keep their doors open. After the attacks, 40 percent of Brunelli's clientele -- those from outside Manhattan -- stopped coming, and tables of six and eight dwindled to twos and threes. The restaurant has stopped serving lunch and removed expensive items like steak from its menu.
"I have about a month here," Russ Brunelli, the owner, said. "Then we have to reassess and re-evaluate. Do you go to a bank and take out a loan? What happens if things don't come back?"
If the experiences of purveyors are any indication, things don't look good. "The wholesale took a huge hit in receivables," said Ariane Daguin, the owner of D'Artagnan, a large supplier of specialty meats. "To this day, we don't know if we will be paid by the restaurants that are being closed every day.
"My sales in Florida are terrible. In Atlanta, it's really stagnant. My sales in Long Island are terrible. San Francisco, Las Vegas. Las Vegas is . . . bff!"
Christopher Pappas, the president of Dairyland, which supplies specialty foods to more than 3,000 restaurants in the New York area, said its sales were also down drastically. In SoHo and Midtown, they are off 50 to 75 percent.
Others remain steeled with optimism. "You know," Mr. Ehrlich said, "restaurants provide so many more outlets for people, not just nutrition. Being able to communicate with others, to distract us from the stresses in the world."
Restaurateurs, for perhaps the first time in years, though, are not so sure of their invincibility.
"We're doing O.K.," said Donny Evans, an owner of Marika on the Upper West Side. "If you say you're doing O.K., that's good at this point."

GRAPHIC: Photos: COME ON BACK! -- Abajour on the Upper East Side hopes to attract diners by promoting its cheaper menu and casual atmosphere. (pg. F1); FEATHER NOT INCLUDED -- At D'Artagnan, a musketeer promotes the new, lower prices. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); MENU PRICES (78%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) RESTAURANTS; TERRORISM; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (57%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



335 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In a muted environment, agencies try new approaches to drum up domestic tourism.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
WITH a fervor perhaps not evidenced since Dinah Shore last belted out "See the U.S.A. in your Chevrolet," the organizations that help market American tourist destinations are working determinedly to deliver pitches meant to resonate with consumers now leery of traveling.
 The drastic decline in trips after Sept. 11 has spurred organizations and associations to introduce ads tailored to the tempered climate as well as revise campaigns that had appeared before the terrorist attacks. At stake are, well, their stakes of the estimated $500 billion spent every year for travel and tourism. 
 "It's taken on a new urgency," said Nat Gutwirth, creative director at the Weightman Group in Philadelphia, which introduced yesterday a campaign for the Center City District, an organization that promotes downtown Philadelphia. The theme is: "There's a time and place for everything. Make it Center City." 
"The ultimate purpose is to make people more comfortable using the resources of the city, primarily shopping, dining and cultural," he added, particularly when "there has been an increase in people feeling less secure about coming into cities." The campaign, with a budget of $150,000, is to run through the fall.
When one client, the Empire State Development Corporation, asked about the feasibility of quickly producing an appropriate campaign, "at first, I was numbed by the questions," said Mike Rogers, president and executive creative director at the New York office of the Wolf Group. " 'What are we going to do?' 'Where do we go from here?' "
"But the answer is simple, obvious," he added. "You go on."
So the agency is creating a $40 million campaign, to be sponsored by the development agency and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, that carries the familiar "I Love New York" theme but presents an entirely new message "to show that New York is going on," Mr. Rogers said, "refracting back that unquenchable spirit." A television commercial is to start running today.
"We wanted to recognize the current sensitivity in the marketplace and develop a program that we think is right for the time," said William Talbert, president and chief executive at the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau, "but also has legs and can go on." The bureau's agency, Turkel Schwartz & Partners in Coconut Grove, Fla., accelerated work on a campaign so it could begin appearing last weekend.
During a meeting of the bureau's marketing committee, said Bruce Turkel, executive creative director at Turkel Schwartz, one member, Jessica Goldman, vice president of Goldman Properties, which owns hotels and restaurants, described how at Yom Kippur services "the rabbi was talking about what you really need to do now is stop and think about what makes you happy."
"We said, 'Whoa, back up,' and seized on that," Mr. Turkel said, using it as the centerpiece of the campaign, which asserts that "now is the time to connect with the things that matter, with the people important to you, and why not in a place that's warm and welcoming."
So the campaign, with a budget of $2.2 million, carries the theme "What makes you happy?" The television, radio, print and interactive ads offer answers that range from spending more time with your children ("When was the last time you giggled?") to slowing down ("When was the last time you danced till dawn with your spouse?").
Another organization racing to introduce a campaign that would appeal to travelers after Sept. 11 was the Washington, D.C., Convention and Tourism Corporation, which had been involved in a review for its advertising account when the World Trade Center and Pentagon were attacked. The account was awarded on Friday to Eisner Communications in Baltimore and Washington, which accelerated the planned introduction of ads so they could start this week.
"We were involved in an effort to help characterize what sets Washington apart from other great cities," said Steve Eisner, president and chief executive at Eisner, "and what we learned in talking to 1,500 travelers and travel planners was that Washington is clearly a city of inspiration, from its architecture to its museums to its political power to its important moments in time."
"That was the track we were on, but in light of what happened, we had to see whether it would hold up," he added. "In polling the week after, we learned that among the same 1,500 people there was more of a desire to touch D.C., an interest in making a literal connection. We discovered the city was again representing a real sense of inspiration for the rest of the country."
So the print ads coming out carry the theme "Come. Be inspired," and feature patriotic images. For instance, one ad shows a man waving an American flag under the words "There's only one way to get back in touch with what's really important. Come home." Another ad depicts the Capitol and the text reads: "People everywhere are looking for inspiration. Here's one place you're sure to find it."
One change in the bureau's plans, Mr. Eisner said, was a refocusing of the media schedule for the $2 million campaign to "more deeply reach the neighboring states" rather than potential visitors farther away.
That is a shift being made by many other tourism organizations like the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Bureau, which doubled to $13 million the budget for a campaign introduced last week by R&R Partners in Las Vegas, which carries the theme "It's time for you," but deferred spending in Eastern markets to concentrate on closer cities like Chicago, Houston and Los Angeles.
By comparison, Mr. Turkel said, the Greater Miami bureau is continuing to spend nationally because "for Miami and Dade County, 96 or 97 percent of traffic is by air."
"Let's say we triple the 'drive market,' " he added, referring to visitors who travel by car. "Oooh, that's still only 12 percent" of total traffic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ad intended to draw American travelers to Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TOURISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); HIJACKING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); AIRLINES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); YOM KIPPUR (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); WOLF GROUP (54%); TURKEL SCHWARTZ & PARTNERS (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: MIKE ROGERS (53%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (53%) ;ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



336 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: For Mark Green in the Runoff 

 BODY:
New York City's voters have a right to feel they've fallen into a political whirlpool. A terrorist attack halted the mayoral primary. The runoff will be held tomorrow, in the middle of an international crisis. A race that was declared boring only a month ago now has so much on the line that people seem almost unable to comprehend its full import.
 Neither Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, nor Mark Green, the city's public advocate, is an ideal mayoral candidate. But the differences between the two men, which were noticeable before, have stretched to formidable over the last few weeks. Mr. Ferrer is the product of the Bronx Democratic machine and his career has hewed closely to the party organization's political rulebook. Mr. Green has always been a political outsider who had to fight for what he wanted, an idea man who specialized in problem-solving. In a time of quiet prosperity, perhaps either man could have handled the job. But now the city needs Mr. Green, who knows how to operate in uncharted waters. 
 Mr. Ferrer began the campaign as the candidate who promised to bring the city's economic boom to the "other New York" that had not yet benefited from good times. He came in first in the primary, and has since collected the endorsements of the city's most influential labor unions, along with their formidable get-out-the-vote machinery.
Now the good times have vanished. Experts are beginning to predict that the loss of tax revenue from the terrorist attack will be so tremendous that the city will be incapable of balancing its budget, forcing control of municipal finances into the hands of the state. But Mr. Ferrer has not really adapted his sales pitch to the new realities. His ads still promise expanded services, and he still vows to improve things for the "other New York." The only difference is that Mr. Ferrer, in need of a broader base, has now decided that the other New York includes everybody in the city.
No one who understands the way elections are run would expect either candidate in an extremely close runoff to produce an instant list of city services he planned to reduce. But Mr. Green has been franker than Mr. Ferrer in warning that his administration would be much different from what he, and the city, imagined during the summer. Unlike Mr. Ferrer, Mr. Green has also been very clear, since shortly after the attack, about what he would do to rebuild Lower Manhattan. 
Mr. Green, who ran a smooth and successful campaign until Sept. 11, has been off his game for most of the last month. Some of his comments, particularly when he theorized that he would have handled the terrorist attack as well as or better than Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, reminded people that he can be irritatingly self-absorbed. Much of the campaign focus in recent weeks has been on personality, and it is absolutely true that Mr. Ferrer has a softer demeanor than Mr. Green's. But the city's most successful recent mayors, Edward Koch and Mr. Giuliani, are both difficult personalities. With the city in such a perilous condition, we cannot afford to judge mayoral candidates on the basis of who would be a better seatmate on a long train trip.
The bottom line is this: Right now the city needs strong leadership, innovative thinking and a mayor who comes into office owing as little as possible to the many unions and political interests that naturally expect to be rewarded for services rendered. On all those points, Mr. Green is the better choice. He made a tactical error when he agreed to Mayor Giuliani's idea for an extended term, but his entire career has demonstrated that he is not afraid to take risks or say no to powerful interests. Mr. Ferrer does not have Mr. Green's gravitas, his interest in policy, his ability to bulldoze forward toward a goal no matter the obstacles. Perhaps most critical of all, Mr. Green is likely to pick deputies and commissioners for their ability to solve problems. Mr. Ferrer's history suggests he will reward political service.
More than a month ago, this page endorsed Mr. Green in the Democratic primary. The very long road we have traveled since then has only reinforced that choice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES; ENDORSEMENTS; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%) GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



337 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
Small Escapes, With Flounces and Twirls

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
In some sense, Fashion Week here is set up like the perfectly planned fifth-grade school day. Upon arrival, editors engage in the exercise of show and tell. What gets shown is usually something that was purchased the previous week in Milan from Prada or Gucci; what is broadcast is how little that something cost taking into account the strong dollar, the VAT and the 30 percent discounts offered to certain members of the fashion press.
 This episode is followed by an exam period, or at least what constitutes as much in fashion -- the showing of difficult work by conceptual designers whose garments have been deconstructed and reconstructed so baroquely they make you wonder if they aren't also capable of morphing into Cuisinarts. Happily, by Day 4 or so comes the equivalent of recess -- the point at which most of the designers feel that advanced engineering is best left to the fine people at M.I.T. 
 If fashion shows have any compelling purpose in a week of cruise missile strikes, globally scattered bomb threats and fear of anthrax, perhaps it is to keep those whose livelihoods depend on looking at clothes contentedly distracted for the occasional 21 minutes.
Whether an audience member turns to the person on the right or left at the spring 2002 shows, the same conversation always ensues. It always begins with the words, "When do you get to go home?"
Welcome are the collections that manage to take you someplace else, a point which hasn't bypassed John Galliano, who at his show for Christian Dior today wittily took his audience everywhere else. A mix master of the supreme order, Mr. Galliano, in 57 looks, managed sabbaticals to Avenue D and Fourth Street; Sedona, Ariz.; Graceland and greater Memphis; Reno and Las Vegas; Oaxaca, Mexico; and possibly, as one python blazer suggested, some imagined nation state that merged a Dean Martin Palm Springs with a modern-day Baku.
Typically, the references were piled on top of one another in way that made each model look like a furiously packed piece of carry-on luggage -- the shirtdress that screamed Mexican table linens with the striped cotton pants that said Rikers Island, topped off by a hat that suggested Jackson Hole and traditional Navajo costume.
It was Mr. Galliano's conspiratorial humor that made the whole enterprise succeed, sending up as he did the kind of designer who ventures away from the fashion capitals, earnestly attempting to absorb the larger world, and returns ready to commodify the experience with a product that says, "Look, I went to Tunis and made this turquoise djellaba."
Meaningful, too, was Mr. Galliano's engagement with the notion of globalism, which is so easily lost at a moment when even the world's least exotic corners seem out of reach. It presented a counterpoint to the poignancy in hearing Thomas Maier, the creative director of Bottega Veneta and the designer of his own rarefied knitwear line, promote his collection as "really comfortable for being on planes."
There would be little overlap in a Venn diagram linking Mr. Galliano with Valentino, but today both designers left you nostalgic for that time -- let's say late August -- when traveling did not seem to require the stashing away of a supply of Xanax. Valentino paid tribute, as he has for more seasons than there are bottles of Barbaresco in Rome, to the woman of multiple residences.
Today there were beautifully ruffled chiffon palazzo pants for her summer nights in Forte dei Marmi, quiet Shantung peasant skirts for her experiment with late March in Taos, painstakingly beaded chiffon miniskirts for wherever someone she hasn't yet met might ask her to come. So many of the clothes, some embellished with exquisite twiglike corals, made you wish a little for her life, no matter how deflated a version.
Not as meticulously circumscribed is Olivier Theyskens's vision of womanhood. Though his talent for producing high-minded feminine clothes seems to grow each season, Mr. Theyskens distracts in the manner of a Gothic novel. He presents his unrelentingly romantic clothes in big gloomy spaces, lending the dresses and suits the air of the doomed lover whose gifts no one ever manages to clearly see. His black skirt suits unfolded to reveal panels of satin. An otherwise unadventurous tulle dress revealed a bare back etched in a black trapezoid. Like Alexander McQueen a few days earlier, Mr. Theyskens shrank down a man's jacket and incorporated it into an evening dress, for which it served as a strapless top and bodice, the sleeves of the jacket outlining bare arms. His effort was as economically beautiful as Mr. McQueen's was aggressively showy.
Economy of a different sort is the mode at Cacharel, the French house revived by the design team of Suzanne Clements and Inacio Ribeiro as a maker of clothes priced well below those meant to be worn on yachts. The show offered another opportunity to put aside whatever unsettling bit of hard news you had just acquired from MSNBC. The clothes were cheerful in the best sense of the term, mixing well-matched stripes with florals and drawing from the comforting images of domestic life: picnic-tablecloth-check tops, wallpaper-patterned cotton dresses, skirts emblazoned with pet parakeets.
How well-timed the clothes seem at a moment when most people are keeping a hand on their wallets and pointing compasses in the direction of home.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A flounced dress with contrasting straps worn over briefs by Olivier Theyskens.; A dark two-button suit with a wrap skirt, also by Mr. Theyskens.; Valentino's bead chiffon miniskirt with corset detailing and a matching top.; A picnic-tablecloth-check blouse and a flowered skirt by Clements Ribeiro for Cacharel.; Ruffled palazzo pants and a midriff-enhancing top with matching sleeves, from Valentino.; A sequin tank top and oversize trousers by John Galliano for Dior.; Ecru long johns peek from under a printed chiffon skirt worn with a georgette top, also from Dior. (Photographs by Jean-Luce Hure for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); BOMBINGS (67%) APPAREL; WOMEN; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (58%)

TICKER: CDI (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%)

PERSON: BELLAFANTE, GINIA; THEYSKENS, OLIVIER; GALLIANO, JOHN; VALENTINO (DESIGNER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (68%); SEDONA, AZ, USA (53%) TENNESSEE, USA (68%); ARIZONA, USA (68%) FRANCE (92%); MEXICO (86%); UNITED STATES (68%) PARIS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



338 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Craving a Comfort Zone; 
Homespun Activities and Purchases Have New Appeal

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN and JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
Sewing machines and batik pillows are in. So are Lego construction sets and scrapbooks, along with bowling and brownies.
 While the attention of many economists has focused on what people are avoiding in the aftermath of last month's terrorist attacks and the first waves of retaliatory bombings in Afghanistan -- traveling on airplanes, making luxury purchases, going to expensive restaurants -- executives and store data suggest a pattern of what people are doing instead. Americans are seeking solace, it seems, in mundane and homey activities and purchases. 
 Businesses are understandably loath to talk much about benefiting from a horrible human tragedy, but it is clear that consumers are crowding into stores that promote old-fashioned crafts like quilting and knitting. And whereas retailing as a whole is hurting -- sales for the week ended Saturday, according to the Instinet Research Redbook, were down 1.3 percent from the week last year -- products associated with cocooning, like candles and DVD players, are experiencing a spike in popularity. Meanwhile, fast foods (pass the pizza) and comfort foods (hooray for ice cream) are moving well.
"People want to sew, create and get back to basics," said Judi Appel, who runs a fabric and home decor store in Morro Bay, Calif. Ms. Appel said customers began to stream into her store, the Cotton Ball, within hours of the attacks. They nestled into the plush purple chenille-covered sofas, cradled mugs of coffee and then bought small things like red-white-and-blue fabric for flags and big things like $1,500 sewing machines.
By the end of the day her sales were roughly one-third above a normal day and they have remained as strong in the weeks since. The Cotton Ball is not alone. Arts-and-crafts stores nationwide are reporting lines out the door. Michaels Stores, an arts-and-crafts chain with nearly 700 stores, announced this week that it expected sales to rise 8 to 10 percent this year, compared with prior forecasts of 6 to 8 percent. "We are an industry people go to in times of trouble," said Susan Brandt, director of communications at the Hobby Industry Association. "They take solace in staying busy and doing things with their hands."
Another bit of old-fashioned Americana that appears to be making a comeback is bowling. Robert D. Putnam lamented the dissolution of community in his book "Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community". But in recent weeks many bowling center operators are reporting a resurgence of interest in the sport as families and friends look for bonding activities.
Dick Corley, chief executive of Bowl New England, which operates 13 centers in 7 states, said nonleague play rose two consecutive weekends at the end of September as parents and children jammed his businesses. "After the terrible tragedy in New York people want to be with other people," he said. "The family thing is huge."
Marge Bergeson works two jobs and is usually tired when she ends her shift at the Holiday Bowl in Groton, Conn. But on the last two Tuesdays, she has received a call from her daughter Jennifer, 23, who wanted to organize a family bowling night. Ms. Bergeson complied, suspecting a link to the terror attacks.
"My daughter told me how important her father and I are now," she recalled. "She wants to be around us more."
When parents are not doing activities with their children, they are buying them things to comfort and reassure them. The movie featuring Harry Potter, the bespectacled boy wizard, will have its premiere in November, and retailers were worried earlier this year that merchandise related to the film might not sell. But that has all changed.
"There is a rush to foster play patterns that are safe, and Harry Potter is a known character," said Michael McNally, a spokesman for Lego, which has temporarily sold out of many of its Harry Potter construction kits. "He is the kind of safe role model parents are looking for, and Harry Potter is also an individual kids can relate to." Parents are also buying stuffed Harry Potter dolls and electronic databases of spells, said David Niggli, the chief operating officer of F. A. O. Schwarz, the toy retailer.
Looming economic uncertainty and concerns about overseas fighting have also aroused American's urge to nest. "We had a great weekend after the 11th and had an incredible weekend after that: traffic, sales and transaction size were all up," said Marvin Girouard, chairman and chief executive of Pier 1 Imports, whose 800-plus stores specialize in low-cost items for the home.
He is even optimistic that sales will hold up through the holidays. "People may not buy a new car or new computer, but they will buy ornaments, wreaths and placemats," he said. "And that serves us really well."
Large consumer electronics are ordinarily the first kind of luxury to stop selling in a slowing economy, but NPD, a market research firm, has raised its estimate for sales of DVD players to 13 million from 11.4 million since the attacks.
Dave Powers, a 34-year-old Manhattan resident, spent the first weeks after the attacks seeking the company of friends at New York bars. But last week he was at Circuit City in Union Square looking at DVD players and thinking about buying a wide-screen television and sound system.
"It's partially escapism," he said. "There is not really anything anyone can do now, besides make a donation. Now I feel like I want to pull myself in."
The need to find comfort has, of course, powerfully affected what Americans are eating. Fancy restaurateurs may be dusting empty wine glasses right now, but the makers of the fast and the fattening have been nourishing the nation's neuroses at a swift pace. Sales at quick service restaurants like McDonald's and Taco Bell have been higher during the last three weeks, compared with the period a year earlier, according to NPD. Supermarket scanners also recorded an increase in sales of candy, soup, peanut butter, frozen cakes and ice cream in the first week and a half after the attacks, according to ACNielsen. Sales of frozen cakes were declining in early September, but rose nearly 30 percent in the weeks after the attacks.
Leisy Abreu, a 33-year-old office manager from San Francisco, can relate to all of this. After the terrorist attacks, she abandoned her regular diet-conscious lunch in favor of burritos and brownies. At night, instead of a simple sandwich and a cup of coffee, she began making elaborate pasta dinners with friends. Late at night she has been settling into her living room sofa and eating peanut-butter-and-fudge ice cream right out of a pint container while flipping through the Disney Channel or Nick at Nite.
"I just needed to get into the comfort zone," she said. "It was like I wanted to feel like a kid."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A credit in Business Day on Wednesday for a picture of bowlers in New England, with an article about the rise in activities close to home, misspelled the photographer's surname. He is Paul O. Boisvert, not Bolisvert.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Raymond Begins Jr. bowls with his family at Bowl New England. The chain has had a rise in nonleague play recently. (Paul O. Bolisvert for The New York Times); (Phil Klein for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Judi Appel, right, said strong sales in her fabric store began right after the terrorist attacks and had remained steady in the weeks since. (Phil Klein for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (90%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); BOWLING CENTERS (73%); BOWLING (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (61%); CD & DVD DRIVES (53%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; QUILTS; KNITTING AND KNIT GOODS; RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; BOWLING 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE; BARNES, JULIAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



339 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Green's Latest Commercial Calls for a Closer Look at Ferrer

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
 Mark Green began broadcasting the first negative television commercial of the Democratic runoff election on Monday night, a 30-second spot called "A Closer Look."

PRODUCER -- Trippi, McMahon & Squier

ON THE SCREEN -- The ad opens with slightly grainy footage of Fernando Ferrer, with the words "Take a closer look at Fernando Ferrer" on the screen. The image dissolves into a split screen, with slow-motion footage of Mr. Ferrer talking on the left-hand side of the screen and text, including quotations pulled from newspapers and actual clippings, against a black background on the right hand side. The ad ends with the same shot it opened with, this time with the words, " Can we afford to take a chance?"

THE SCRIPT -- Take a closer look at Fernando Ferrer. The New York Times calls him "borderline irresponsible" and said his economic recovery plan was "vague and confusing." In the face of a deepening recession, The Times reports Ferrer remains "completely committed" to raising taxes on New Yorkers. And at a time when our city is pulling together, Ferrer has been criticized for running a campaign to divide our city. Fernando Ferrer. Borderline irresponsible. Higher taxes. A divided city. Can we afford to take a chance?

ACCURACY -- An editorial in The New York Times said that it was "borderline irresponsible" for Mr. Ferrer to keep calling for an increased parks budget even after the trade center attack. (The same editorial also criticized Mr. Green for supporting Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's attempt to extend his term.) An earlier Times editorial, which ran before the Sept. 25 primary and before Mr. Ferrer released his recovery plan, called his ideas about Lower Manhattan "vague and confusing." Mr. Ferrer supports raising taxes, saying that it would cost the average family four cents a day to pay for afterschool programs. And he has called for reinstating a commuter tax on people who live outside the city but work in it. And former Mayor Edward I. Koch and Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, both criticized Mr. Ferrer's campaign theme of the "other New York" as divisive before they turned around and endorsed him.

SCORECARD -- For more than a week now Mr. Green has tried to raise doubts about Mr. Ferrer's ability to help rebuild New York's economy and to keep it safe and secure in the aftermath of the World Trade Center disaster. In condensing his arguments and putting them in a commercial, his campaign hopes that the questions it raises about Mr. Ferrer will outweigh the risk of alienating voters who do not like negative ads. MICHAEL COOPER

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITIES (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



340 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: STREET RAGE; 
Pakistani Police Kill 3 Protesters and a 13-Year-Old

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: QUETTA, Pakistan, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Three anti-American protesters and a 13-year-old boy were shot dead today by Pakistani police officers as demonstrators tried to storm a police station in Kuchlak, a town near the Afghan border. 
 The deaths came on the second day of violent protests against the American-led airstrikes on Afghanistan. A fifth person was killed in a village farther north along the border, and a man was killed and 26 people were injured in Quetta on Monday. 
 Fearing that unrest might spread to major cities, Pakistan's military government increased security in Karachi, the commercial center in the south, and set up bunkers of sandbags and posted soldiers armed with automatic weapons at key points in Islamabad, the capital. 
The longer the air attacks on Afghanistan continue, the greater the danger that protests could threaten the stability of this volatile nation. A public opinion poll released today said that 62 percent of Pakistanis opposed involvement in the war.
This poll contradicted President Pervez Musharraf, who said on Monday that a vast majority of Pakistanis supported a limited role in assisting the United States and its allies.
So far, the violent protests have been restricted to the fundamentalist region along the country's western border with Afghanistan. The ruling Taliban in Afghanistan have strong support in this region, and sympathies have been fanned into angry flames by a vocal minority of hard-line religious leaders.
The main protests have been orchestrated by the Jamiat Ulema Islam, a militant religious political party whose leaders have been placed under house arrest by the government in an attempt to tamp down the passions of their followers.
Roving bands carrying the party's distinctive black and white banner burned buildings and broke shop windows in Quetta on Monday. Some of the group's leaders responded by calling for peaceful demonstrations.
"We condemn the violence," Mullah Kifayat Ullah, a party official, said today.
The rally this afternoon in Quetta drew about 1,000 people and there were no incidents. But a party-organized demonstration in Kuchlak, 15 miles away, turned ugly as a mix of Afghan refugees and students from the party-run religious school marched through the streets chanting pro-Taliban and anti-American slogans. 
Witnesses said demonstrators broke windows at a bank and ransacked a post office. When the police tried to stop the melee at the post office, witnesses and the police said, a portion of the crowd turned on officers and tried to storm the local police station.
"The people had weapons and they tried to take over the police station," Shoaib Suddel, the top police official in the province, said in an interview. "The police had to take action to defend themselves." 
One of the protesters, Muhammed Aman, told The Associated Press that the demonstration was peaceful and the police gunfire was unprovoked. But witnesses confirmed the police account that protesters fired at the police station and at the nearby post office, which was scarred by bullets. 
"People in the crowd had guns and they used them," said Nazir Khan, a laborer who said he had watched the exchange of gunfire with the police from two blocks away.
Three protesters in their 20's were shot and died at the scene. Doctors at the hospital in Quetta, where two of the bodies were taken, said two of the men were shot in the head. 
Hamid Ullah, 13, was shot in the stomach and died shortly after arriving at the Quetta hospital. The boy's weeping mother carried his body out of the hospital for the trip back to Kuchlak. Family friends said Hamid was an only child who had attended the religious school, or madrassah. They said his mother was barred from attending his funeral because women were not allowed inside the school. 
Two photographers taking pictures as the boy's body was carried toward the madrassah were struck by policemen. The photographers, Vincent Laforet of The New York Times and Patrick Aventurier of the Gamma agency, said they were struck with batons and a rifle butt by police officers who tried to take their cameras. Neither was seriously hurt.
Moinuddin Haider, the interior minister, said a fifth person was killed by the police today when protesters tried to attack a police station in Hangu, a small town in northwestern Pakistan. There also were protests in numerous other cities throughout the country, including a peaceful demonstration by 5,000 people in Karachi.
"After the attacks, people's tempers are high, and basically the religious elements and mostly people from the madrassahs have been demonstrating," Mr. Haider said in an interview with CNN. 
There are concerns in some quarters that prolonged attacks on Afghanistan could lead to wider unrest and deepen divisions in Pakistan. 
"If you want to see the future of Pakistan, it is Afghanistan," Abdul Basit, a law professor and defense attorney in Lahore, said in an interview before a court appearance in Quetta. "This country is ripe. There is an army of unemployed with nowhere to go, and religious rhetoric is very appealing.
"President Musharraf's decision to align the country with the United States in the war against Afghanistan will make heroes of the hard-line clerics," Mr. Basit said, and could tip the balance of public opinion in their favor, increasing the political influence of pro-Taliban clerics. 
But Naseer A. Tareen, a businessman in Quetta, said the protests were unlikely to spread beyond the vocal minority.
"The majority of Pakistanis are so docile that they will never come out in the streets," he said. "Public opinion is being hijacked by a minority who want to take us in a direction that we don't want to go." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three dozen men were detained by the police after an anti-American demonstration in Kuchlak, Pakistan, a town near the Afghan border. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Protests in Pakistan"Six people have been killed in anti-American protests in Pakistan over the past two days. Here is a look at the participants and damage. LEADERS: The pro-Taliban Jamiat-Ulema-Islam Party PROTESTERS: Thousands of Afghan refugees, students from the party's schools and members of Islamic groups DEATHS: Monday -- One protester killedYesterday -- Police killed four protesters and a 13-year-old boy DAMAGE: Kuchlak -- Police station, post office, bankQuetta -- Police station, cinemas, shops, banks, automobiles, a United Nations Children's Fund building Map of Afghanistan highlights Quetta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RIOTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); RELIGION (89%); WITNESSES (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); HIJACKING (74%); POLITICS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); VANDALISM (70%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); HOUSE ARREST (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) ;FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; KUCHLAK (PAKISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



341 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE REGION; 
5 Ex-Soviet Asian Republics Are Now Courted by the U.S.

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

 BODY:
The five countries that emerged in Central Asia after the collapse of the Soviet Union a decade ago -- Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan -- are unknown to most Americans but are now being urgently courted as the United States seeks to destroy terror bases in nearby Afghanistan.
 Until a month ago, even many officials in Washington tried to avoid dealing with these countries, whose complex challenges range from surging Islamic militancy to lucrative drug trafficking. 
 With the exception of the Pentagon, which early on recognized that the Central Asian states might someday prove a valuable security asset, American and many other diplomats viewed them as dangerous places, and best avoided.
Defense Department officials dispatched senior officers to the Central Asian countries soon after they became independent. The focus on military cooperation rather than promotion of democracy proved a success, with none of the five Central Asian leaders -- almost all of them holdovers from the Soviet era -- displaying much interest in Jeffersonian ideals. 
The region's presidents range from the relatively benign autocrat Askar Akayev in Kyrgyzstan to the dictator Saparmurad A. Niyazov in Turkmenistan, center of one of the world's most bizarre personality cults. Mr. Niyazov views himself as a demigod and has ordered that his image adorn every coin and bank note and that it be displayed in every public place.
These leaders are not new types in Central Asia. For centuries the region was the domain of colorful emirs and khans. Some fostered artists and scientists whose extraordinary achievements during the Middle Ages pushed the Islamic world far beyond then-primitive Europe. Others are remembered for developing excruciating forms of torture.
Central Asia remains rich in cultural heritage and natural resources, including huge reservoirs of oil and gas. But it is also dominated by rulers whose ruthlessness in crushing dissent has, according to some specialists, fed the very extremism they seek to suppress.
"If you're too tough on people, something's going to happen," said an Asian diplomat who spent several years as an ambassador in Uzbekistan, where human rights groups say thousands of Muslims, accused of being Islamic insurgents, have been unjustly arrested, tortured and even killed. 
"The instinct out there is to repress," the diplomat said, "which might have worked when the lid was on tight, as it was during the Soviet period. But now some people who feel victimized by repression are turning to Afghanistan for help."
In the last two years religious radicals, evidently with Afghan support, have mounted armed attacks in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan. They have proclaimed their desire to turn those countries into Islamic states modeled after Afghanistan.
In the bazaars of the Fergana Valley, the teeming heart of Central Asia, vendors sell cassettes of sermons in which radical clerics call the faithful to rebel against their leaders and replace them with others who share the Taliban's ideas.
"There's a real nervousness about the rise of Islamic radicalism," said Martha Brill Olcott, a scholar who has written extensively about the region. "It's not a threat in the short term, but in the long term it is. 
"Leaders there want to reduce or eliminate that threat, and they'd welcome American help in doing that. But they don't want to get involved in the American operation in ways that will destabilize their regimes and their countries."
All of the five Central Asian countries were essentially forced into declaring independence as the Soviet Union collapsed, even though they were spectacularly unprepared for the challenges of nationhood.
During the 1990's, leaders of all five nations played the United States and Russia off each other. Now Washington and Moscow, seemingly united in the anti-Taliban cause, are well positioned to join together in seeking Central Asia's help.
Three of the five Central Asian countries share borders with Afghanistan. United States troops have been sent to Uzbekistan partly because it has the only year-round access to the border over a decent road. 
Turkmenistan is less likely to help, because President Niyazov is deeply wary of foreign influence. The third country bordering Afghanistan is the region's wildest and most lawless, Tajikistan.
The Tajikistan-Afghanistan border is long and porous, but impassable for much of the year. Tajikistan is also deeply unstable, racked by civil war and with a government that controls only part of the country. The rest is run by clans and warlords, some of whom support themselves with a thriving drug and weapons trade.
Central Asian warriors spent much of the 19th century defeating Russian and British invasions. After their lands were forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union, guerrillas fought the Red Army for years before being crushed. To this day, family and clan weigh stronger in many areas than the nation.
That web of loyalties means that populations do not automatically follow their presidents and may oppose the closer ties to America.
American diplomats have been reluctant to deal with the warlords, especially those whose power rests on controlling lucrative heroin-smuggling routes. But many of them fear that a radical Taliban-style government would destroy their standing. 
Thus they could find common cause in Afghanistan, much of which is also under the sway of hereditary chiefs who instinctively support whichever side seems likely to win the next war.
Like their counterparts in other parts of the world, Central Asian leaders wonder about the staying power of the United States. Many believe that the Americans helped create the current situation by effectively abandoning Afghanistan after Afghan rebels financed by Washington succeeded in chasing Soviet troops out in the late 1980's, and by doing much the same to Pakistan, leaving it awash in weapons and militant Islamic guerrillas.
These leaders fear that Washington will turn its attention elsewhere again after achieving or failing to achieve its first set of goals.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Seeking Allies in Central Asia"Five countries that emerged out of the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 may become strategically important to the United States. UzbekistanPOPULATION in millions: 25.2G.D.P. PER CAPITA in U.S. dollars: $2,400PERCENTAGE MUSLIM: 88 KazakhstanPOPULATION in millions: 16.7G.D.P. PER CAPITA in U.S. dollars: 5,000PERCENTAGE MUSLIM: 47 TajikistanPOPULATION in millions: 6.6G.D.P. PER CAPITA in U.S. dollars: 1,140PERCENTAGE MUSLIM: 85 KyrgyzstanPOPULATION in millions: 4.8G.D.P. PER CAPITA in U.S. dollars: 2,700PERCENTAGE MUSLIM: 75 TurkmenistanPOPULATION in millions: 4.6G.D.P. PER CAPITA in U.S. dollars: 4,300PERCENTAGE MUSLIM: 89 Population figures are estimates as of July 2001; G.D.P. figures are estimates for 2000 on a purchasing-power parity basis. Map of the middle east shows the locations of the above countries. (Source: C.I.A. World Factbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TORTURE (86%); TALIBAN (77%); TERRORISM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: ;KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); TAJIKISTAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); TURKMENISTAN; TAJIKISTAN; UZBEKISTAN; KAZAKHSTAN; KYRGYZSTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



342 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Gasoline Mileage for New Cars Declines Slightly, E.P.A. Reports 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Less than 6 percent of the 2002 model cars and trucks arriving in showrooms get better than 30 miles per gallon, and new cars on average get slightly less gasoline mileage than the 2001 models.
 The popularity of gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles and pickups again held down the overall numbers for the 865 cars, trucks and vans listed in the annual fuel economy statistics released today by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Just 48 models, led by two hybrid vehicles powered by gasoline and electricity, get 30 m.p.g. or more in combined city and highway driving. More than a third, 330 models, get less than 20 m.p.g.. The majority, 487 models, get 20 to 30 m.p.g.. 
Over all, new passenger vehicles average 21 m.p.g.. Last year's weighted average, based on sales for all new passenger cars and trucks, was 20.4, a 21-year low.
While promoting the need for fuel-efficient vehicles to decrease American dependence on foreign oil, two top officials of the Bush administration were reluctant today to embrace changing government standards to require that vehicles go farther on a gallon of gas. They said safety must be paramount in any such decision.
Average fuel economy for the 491 cars is 23.9 m.p.g., a slight decrease from 24.2 in 2001. That compares with 17.9 for 374 models or variations of sport utility vehicles, vans and pickup trucks, a modest increase from 17.3 in 2001.
The hybrids, the two-seat Honda Insight coupe and five-seat Toyota Prius sedan, topped the list of fuel misers for the third straight year, at 64 and 48 m.p.g., respectively. They are followed by four Volkswagen diesel cars, the Honda Civic HX and the Toyota Echo, all at 37 m.p.g. or better.
By class, the best achievers are compact cars at 25.8 m.p.g., followed by small station wagons and subcompact cars at almost 25, and midsize station wagons at 23.7. Cargo and passenger vans and standard pickup trucks are the fuel spendthrifts at 16 m.p.g..
Among midsize cars, the Mazda 626 and Honda Accord reported the best combined city-highway mileage of 28 m.p.g.. The worst in that category is the Bentley Arnage, at 13. Most cars in the category are in the low to mid-20's.
Three similar minivans from General Motors -- the Chevrolet Ventura, Oldsmobile Silhouette and Pontiac Montana -- again have the best mileage, 22 m.p.g. combined, in the passenger van category. The Kia Sedona has the worst at 17.
King-size sport utility vehicles like the Cadillac Escalade, Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator account for 13 of the 35 vehicles on the list with the worst gas mileage, all 14 m.p.g. or less combined.
The luxury sport import Lamborghini L-147 Murcielago is the biggest guzzler, at 10 m.p.g., followed by the Ferrari 360 Modena/Spider, at 12.
The E.P.A. administrator, Christie Whitman, said more efficient vehicles could save owners more than $1,500 a year. An increase of just three miles per gallon industrywide could cut carbon dioxide emissions by 140 million metric tons, the agency said.
But the agency reported last week that the fuel economy of new passenger vehicles was as poor as it has been in the past 20 years because automakers are trading mileage gains for larger, more powerful vehicles.
In August, the House rejected a proposal to make sport utility vehicles attain the same fleet average of 27.5 m.p.g. that the government requires of automobiles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); MINIVANS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); STATISTICS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%) AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FUEL EFFICIENCY 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



343 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE REAL ESTATE; 
Plan for Lower Manhattan May Propose Too Much

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The plan announced by the state and the city yesterday to rebuild the equivalent of 12 Empire State Buildings in Lower Manhattan may have a small crack in the foundation: few experts believe there will be enough companies to move into that much office space anytime soon.
 The danger is that the city could be stuck with a lot of empty office towers, as it was in the late 1980's when the real estate boom gave way to a recession. 
 "I don't think there's a need for a lot of new construction downtown or anywhere else," said Barry Gosin, vice chairman of Newmark & Company, a real estate company.
But proponents, like the Real Estate Board of New York and Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, say the $20 billion incentive plan is a good first step in rebuilding Lower Manhattan, especially coupled with the proposed transportation improvements and benefits for residential tenants displaced by the attack. 
The $20 billion plan is part of the larger $54 billion blueprint for aid in the wake of the World Trade Center attack, presented yesterday by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
Mr. Weisbrod said that there was a need for prime office space downtown that would be available when companies need to expand or move back to New York.
Peter Muoio, a managing director and real estate analyst at Deutsche Bank, said, "If the New York City economy starts growing again, the issue will be a lack of office space."
Many urban planners and some state officials say transportation improvements are far more important to the future of Lower Manhattan than subsidized office buildings will be, since they would make the area accessible. 
Under the plan, the state would establish a Liberty Zone in Lower Manhattan in which companies displaced by the attack could receive an unspecified subsidy per employee, as well as tax breaks and other incentives to remain or return from Midtown and the suburbs. Developers who build office towers would be eligible for tax-exempt financing that could save them millions of dollars.
Although the real estate industry had wanted the subsidies to be granted to all projects, state officials said in interviews that benefits would be discretionary.
But it remains unclear exactly how much office space is needed, given that the economy has slowed considerably, freeing up space when companies reduced staffs, and that displaced companies like Merrill Lynch were able to move employees into vacant space they controlled in Midtown, Jersey City and elsewhere.
In the days after the trade center attack, executives and real estate brokers said that the city should move immediately to build new skyscrapers downtown, or risk the decline of the financial district and the third largest central business district in the country, after Midtown and Chicago. Developers huddled with Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding and Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, offering to erect an office tower on a parking lot or development site under their control if only the city would do away with zoning regulations and public reviews.
But the rush for a building bonanza has given way to a more modest reality: many real estate experts say there is a need to build new office space, but more like 2 million square feet, not the 10 million square feet at 1 and 2 World Trade Center, or the 25 million square feet described in the proposal by Governor Pataki and Mayor Giuliani.
At the end of August, there was nearly 30 million square feet of vacant office space in Manhattan, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the large broker. The economic slowdown had prompted many companies to abandon expansion plans, while many technology companies had closed.
Even after some companies moved to Midtown from downtown, there is almost 23 million square feet of vacant space in Manhattan, according to Cushman & Wakefield. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RECESSION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); HIJACKING (72%); TERRORISM (67%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; MISSING PERSONS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



344 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ISOLATED TOWN; 
Faraway Events Hit Home For Town in Eastern Oregon

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: PENDLETON, Ore., Oct. 9 

 BODY:
The little airport at the edge of town now is barricaded by a fortress flank of concrete so jarring that everyone calls it the Ugly Wall, and trembles at its sight. The crop-dusters are flying again, seeding next year's alfalfa, but nobody looks at them in the same way. And the walk-in mental health clinic has never known such a clutter of nerves, nightmares and edgy what-ifs.
 Tucked away in a desert draw beneath the tawny expanse of the Columbia Plateau, Pendleton is as close to nowhere as it is far from somewhere. But the war and its jumble of fears about anthrax, retaliatory acts by terrorists and an ever-widening conflict have come home to this town of 17,000, as they have to nearly every acre of American soil. And beneath the brave front of flags and tight-jawed rituals, people are scared by an enemy they cannot see and a conflict that should seem so far away. 
 "I tell people we are so remote we're not on the map, that nobody would ever want to bomb us," said Mike Thompson, a psychiatric counselor at the mental health clinic here. "But people are not sleeping, they have these big fears, and you can see how this thing has had a real ripple effect all the way down to some isolated little farm."
Mostly, there is a sense that life is suspended, waiting for something to nudge it forward. Jobs have been lost, trips canceled, weddings delayed. 
Things had almost returned to normal, and in the straw-colored light of eastern Oregon people slipped back into the routines of small-town autumn, of shooting birds and debating football facts. Then came the Sunday bombings, and the swagger of this big-belt-buckled town was gone once again, replaced by elliptical statements and questions like one on the sign in front of the Peace Lutheran Church: "If God is for us, who can be against us?" The well-known biblical verse took on new meaning this week.
Over the last month, Pendleton has become both more isolated from the outside world, losing two of its five daily commercial flights to the downturn in air travel. But it is also closer. "We hardly even knew where Afghanistan was," said Pat Kennedy, who manages the convention center. "We sure as hell do now."
Now when the air-raid siren, a cultural artifact from the cold war, gets its regular test, the police chief, Gary Ward, trembles. "What crosses my mind when I hear that is: I wish they wouldn't do that anymore," Mr. Ward said.
"It's just going to scare people."
A further scare lies about 30 miles down the road, where an Army chemical weapons depot holds a lethal stew.
Night duty for Tom Hartzell has gone from being on standby for the Fire Department to security patrol, looking for threats at the edge of town.
Mr. Hartzell is a barrel-chested park employee by day who tries to distract himself by imagining all the ways his beloved Washington State Cougars can keep their unbeaten football season intact. Reality keeps intruding, and it has gotten closer since the bombing campaign began.
"What I realize now for the first time is that we can be big and bad and still be got," said Mr. Hartzell, who was working on a stone memorial to firefighters and police officers from Umatilla County, built around a statue of a sheriff who was killed in a long-ago jail break. "It's kind of obvious, but nobody knows how many days they have left in this world." 
A graduate of Pendleton High School, Mike Selves, a civilian employee in the Pentagon, was killed when Flight 77 rammed into the building. 
Time has hopscotched over Pendleton, once a stopping-off point on the Oregon Trail that celebrates its past with one of the nation's biggest rodeos. It is the kind of town that "if somebody waves to you when you drive by and you don't wave back, they think there's something wrong with you," as Mr. Kennedy said.
The town wears its Western heritage in all manner of civic costumes and displays. But it is the very nature of Western stoicism that frustrates people now.
"Some people feel very isolated here, and that's why they've always learned to take care of problems by themselves," Mr. Thompson said. "Now they feel distraught, frustrated because they can't do anything. They feel helpless."
The biggest event of the year, the Pendleton Round-Up, was just getting under way on the morning of the attacks. It continued throughout the week, despite criticism. In the streets at night, people drank hard, and there were more fistfights and arrests than usual, the police said.
At the airport on that first day, there was a bomb scare. A suitcase, having traveled from London to Portland to Pasco, Wash., to Pendleton, was found unattended, with what the police described as "Arabic writing" on the outside. It turned out to be harmless, belonging to an exchange student headed to the Pendleton airport from Azerbaijan who mistakenly got off his flight in Pasco, ahead of his luggage.
Travel may only become gloomier and stranger in coming months, people fear. "Losing two flights a day like we did, that's a real hit," said Mike Hatt, who stood in front of a faded poster of New York's skyline inside his small travel agency in downtown Pendleton. "It makes it real hard to get anywhere from here. And it's a snowball effect. I may not be able to stay in business."
The ripples continue. The tiny airport has a $28 million-a-year impact on Pendleton. Losing 40 percent of its flights, means 500 fewer passengers, mostly business travelers, a month. If the trend holds, Pendleton would fall below the minimum of 10,000 air passengers a year that it needs to be eligible for federal financing. Without that money, which comes to $1 million a year, people wonder how the airport would survive.
"They crash two planes into two buildings in New York, and our world is turned upside down nearly 3,000 miles away," said Larry Dalrymple, the airport manager.
There are no mosques in town. And when asked if there were any practicing Muslims, many people mentioned a coffee-colored man who runs a motel. That man, Manny Patel, was full of good cheer as he explained that he is Indian-born and that he was raised in Wisconsin.
"I don't have any problem here," Mr. Patel explained, when asked if he felt the stares of Pendleton. "But the reason is because I don't go out much. I don't go into town." He plans to stick it out, running the Econo-Lodge off the exit of Interstate 84. He fears for the future.
"I am afraid what has been started will never end," Mr. Patel said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The concrete barricade erected in front of the Eastern Oregon Regional Airport in Pendleton, is being called the Ugly Wall by local residents. (Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PESTICIDES (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (76%); COLD WAR (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); TERRORISM (74%); AIRLINES (73%); RELIGION (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); TRENDS (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); POLICE FORCES (60%); EMPLOYMENT (51%) TERRORISM; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: MIKE THOMPSON (50%) ;EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PENDLETON (ORE); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



345 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: House Panel at Odds Over a Trade Bill 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Disregarding the spirit of wartime bipartisanship, the House Ways and Means Committee approved a bill late tonight that would give the Bush administration enhanced authority to negotiate trade agreements.
 The measure was adopted, 26 to 13, on nearly a straight party-line vote. All Republicans on the panel voted for it, and all but two Democrats -- William J. Jefferson of Louisiana and John Tanner of Tennessee -- voted no. 
 The committee's chairman, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, called the legislation bipartisan, noting that it contained language on protecting labor rights and the environment that reflected some Democratic priorities. 
But Democratic support -- which is crucial in the closely divided House -- was thin when compared with previous efforts to approve so-called trade promotion authority. That suggests that the Republican leadership would face a fight if it chooses to put the measure to a vote before the full House soon.
Mr. Thomas said the trade authority was an "urgent priority" for the president and "symbolizes our commitment to American business and American workers" that they can compete on the world economic stage. Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, has called the measure essential because it would help the president build a coalition to fight terrorism.
But the top Democrat on the committee, Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, said none of the senior Democrats on the panel and no one in the House Democratic leadership had been consulted on the drafting of the legislation.
"This has nothing to do with the war on terrorism," Mr. Rangel said, or "with providing short-term economic stimulus to the economy."
The bill would allow the administration to negotiate trade accords that Congress could not amend, but only approve or reject. This used to be called "fast track" authority.
Every president since Gerald R. Ford has had the authority. But President Bill Clinton's expired in 1994, and Congress refused to renew it. Without the powers, trade deals are harder to seal because both sides are wary that Congress will tinker with the details on behalf of powerful constituencies.
J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker, has given no indication that he intends to bring the bill before the full House for a vote soon.
The last time trade authority was seriously debated in the House was in 1997. Republican leaders withdrew the bill on the day the vote was scheduled because nose counts showed it would have been defeated by 20 votes or more.
Neither side expressed confidence today about where the votes would stand this year if the matter came before the full House. The best guess is that no more than a dozen Democrats in the House would vote for it and perhaps a few more Republicans, mainly those with large labor constituencies, would vote against it. Republicans have a nine-seat majority in the House.
Opponents of the measure, mostly Democrats, say that past trade accords have allowed nations that violate international standards for protecting workers and the environment to sell goods to the United States, causing the loss of American jobs.
Mr. Thomas has included language in his bill that obliges the administration to address labor and environmental concerns in the main text of any new trade accord. But many Democrats, union and environmental groups say that language is far too weak.
Even some business leaders say that President Bush will probably need to push the measure strongly if it is to win broad support.
"If the president wants trade authority to build his coalition against terrorism, he will get it," said Thomas Donohue, president the the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Donohue said he felt that business groups could endorse stronger provisions to protect labor and the environment to recruit more Democrats. Labor leaders, however, said they had mobilized to defeat the bill.
"The proponents have really gone about this in a way designed to maximize the partisan bickering," said Thea Lee, a senior A.F.L.-C.I.O. official. "We don't see much room for compromise." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TERRORISM (65%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: JOHN TANNER (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



346 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Runoff Campaign Turns Confrontational and Strange as Candidates Trade Charges 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
The Democratic mayoral runoff election grew nastier yesterday on its next-to-last day, with an exchange of attack ads on the airwaves, sharp words between the candidates and even a circuslike confrontation, complete with an acrobat, between supporters of Fernando Ferrer and Mark Green on a Midtown street.
 It began when supporters of Mr. Ferrer, including former Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro and Ruth W. Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president, assembled outside Mr. Green's campaign headquarters on Lexington Avenue near Grand Central Terminal for a news conference to denounce a Green campaign ad that calls Mr. Ferrer "borderline irresponsible" and asks, "Can New York afford to take a chance?" 
 But chaos broke out as the news conference ended when young Green campaign aides poured out of the building with a street-theater counteroffensive. To draw attention to Mr. Ferrer's shifting positions on the death penalty and late-term abortions, Mr. Green's supporters chanted "flip-flop! flip-flop!" and gave out flip-flop sandals picturing Mr. Ferrer along with the words "Death Penalty" and "Choice."
An acrobat, wearing a shirt that said "Death Penalty" on one side and "Choice" on the other, then began performing flips in the air.
It was the most visual manifestation of a campaign that has turned increasingly confrontational and strange in its final days. Mr. Green charged yesterday that Mr. Ferrer's plan to decentralize office space in the wake of the World Trade Center attack was motivated by patronage. Mr. Ferrer complained that Mr. Green's attack commercials were ugly and unfair and said that they should embarrass "his supporters, who purport to be liberal and who purport to be interested in unifying the city."
Last night, Mr. Ferrer's campaign answered the Green campaign's commercial with one of its own -- an ad criticizing Mr. Green for running an ad criticizing Mr. Ferrer.
Mr. Ferrer likened the Green commercial to an attack ad used this year in Los Angeles to help derail the surging candidacy of Antonio Villaraigosa, who sought to become the first Hispanic mayor there in more than a century.
In that race, James K. Hahn, who ultimately won, released a commercial late in the campaign that focused on Mr. Villaraigosa's support for clemency for a convicted drug dealer. It ended with the line: "Los Angeles can't trust Antonio Villaraigosa."
Mr. Ferrer said that Mr. Green "seems to be taking a page out of the playbook" of Mr. Hahn.
"I think you would have to ask Mark what his intent was in raising this ugly campaign, raising the fear factor," said Mr. Ferrer, who would be New York's first Hispanic mayor if elected. "I mean that's ugly. That's divisive and for someone who really does portray himself as a great unifier to do that in this moment in the life of this city is so cynical, so awful, so ugly, so divisive, that it just turns my stomach."
Joseph DePlasco, a spokesman for Mr. Green, said in response: "It's ridiculous for the borough president to compare this ad to a race where one candidate attacked another for helping a drug dealer. There's no similarity. This is about a critical election where New Yorkers should be looking to see how each of the candidates have addressed this crisis."
Mr. Green -- who as public advocate issued a report in 1999 that criticized the Police Department for failing to adequately discipline officers accused of misconduct -- was endorsed yesterday by the police union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association.
He told the union's president, Pat Lynch, that as mayor he would negotiate a fair contract for the police. "You can't put a price on heroism, fixing up police precincts, better training for cops at the beginning of their careers, having a more fair and efficient trial process," Mr. Green said.
For more than a week, Mr. Green has painted Mr. Ferrer's plan to rebuild the city in the wake of the World Trade Center attack as insufficient; yesterday he charged that Mr. Ferrer's plan to decentralize offices in the wake of the attack was motivated by patronage.
In a morning interview on WLIB radio, Mr. Green said that Mr. Ferrer had come up with "a patronage response, rather than an economic response to the attack when he suggested that we redistribute economic development funds and he named different locations, for political appeal, throughout the city."
In response to Mr. Green's attacks on Mr. Ferrer's rebuilding plan, Mr. Ferrer made an evening appearance with Donald Trump, who endorsed him and called his rebuilding plan excellent.
Mr. Trump said that he agreed with the idea of spreading office space to the other boroughs. "What he really is doing is diversifying for a short period of time," Mr. Trump said. "Look, nothing can be built there right now. He wants something built so they don't move to New Jersey, they don't move up to other parts of the world. So, what he's done is very smart, it's a very smart plan. It gets something done immediately and then ultimately they are going to move back to downtown Manhattan, we all hope." 
The Green campaign quickly produced old newspaper articles in which Mr. Ferrer had been critical of Mr. Trump. For example, "When Donald Trump says this is the best site in the world, hold onto your wallet," Mr. Ferrer was quoted as saying in an article in The Daily News in 1998.
Mr. Ferrer's campaign recorded a telephone message by the Rev. Al Sharpton, a key supporter who has become a lightning rod in the campaign, in which he complains that the Green campaign is trying to scare voters away from Mr. Ferrer by invoking his name.
And some of Mr. Ferrer's supporters went even further than he did in suggesting that Mr. Green's ad contained a veiled racial or ethnic appeal. Hazel Dukes, the president of the New York chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., said of the ad, "I woke up this morning and thought I was in Mississippi."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer, left, talked with Peggy Gould, center, and Sylvia Luban at a community center in Borough Park, Brooklyn. Mark Green, above right, discussed issues with Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, after Mr. Green won the endorsement of the police union. (James Estrin/The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); ABORTION (53%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



347 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURING THE SKIES; 
Senate Stalls On U.S. Role In Screening At Airports

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
After more than a week of meetings, the Senate remained bogged down over the scope and cost of a bill to federalize the jobs of baggage screeners at major airports.
 The Senate began the day by voting 97 to 0 to proceed with the bipartisan bill, but leaders on both sides retreated behind closed doors to continue negotiating the legislation's most contentious measures. 
 The White House, which wants the federal government to hire, train and supervise baggage screeners, without necessarily creating a new federal work force, met with the bill's Republican sponsors today to ask for more flexibility over federalizing employees, Republican aides said. Administration officials also requested details of how the bill's provisions would be put into effect. 
But the administration has sent Congress mixed signals. Just last week, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta told House Republican leaders that they might have to accept federalization if they wanted to move the legislation.
The bill was written by Senator Ernest F. Hollings, the chairman of the Commerce Committee, and Senator John McCain, the ranking Republican on the panel.
Most Republicans, wary of a major expansion of the federal work force, oppose making as many as 28,000 baggage screeners federal employees. The opposition is more intense in the House than in the Senate, but House leaders lack the votes to push through their version, which calls only for federal supervision.
Still, the question of federalization is just one conflict weighing down the bill.
Democrats are pushing to attach a measure by Senator Jean Carnahan, Democrat of Missouri, to provide extended unemployment benefits to laid-off airline workers and to help those who cannot afford health insurance. Angry that airlines received a $15 billion bailout while airline workers received nothing, Democrats are demanding action on the measure.
Trying to forge a compromise, Democrats suggested a possible alternative, a scaled-back version of the proposal that would reduce the size of the worker aid package to $1.9 billion from $3.1 billion. But Republicans said they wanted to keep the measure severed from the aviation security bill altogether, preferring a separate vote on the legislation.
The two sides were also at odds over a Democratic measure to steer $3.2 billion to Amtrak for upgrades and security. But one Senate Democratic aide said Democrats would be willing to compromise by possibly accepting $1 billion.
Also at issue was whether the Department of Justice or the Department of Transportation should oversee aviation security, and how much to charge passengers for aviation security, a cost per ticket that could be $2.50 to $3.
"It will only be the responsible approach to pay for this in the long term rather than rely on temporary measures we have now," said Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas Republican who is a sponsor of the bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HIJACKING (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LUGGAGE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); RUSS CARNAHAN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%) ALVAREZ, LIZETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



348 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Cars; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Worried Carmakers Appeal to Patriotism and Pocketbooks 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
AS the 2002 model year begins, the timing could hardly be more challenging for automobile manufacturers. Thanks to slow summer sales, an even slower economy and post-Sept. 11 jitters, dealer lots are jammed with last year's cars. While such circumstances usually cry out for aggressive marketing, advertisers are wary of offending the public with pitches that might appear insensitive during a time of mourning and reflection. 
 How does an automaker move cars off the lot in such an atmosphere? For some, the answer is to change nothing and hope for the best. For others, the solution is to mix financial incentives with a healthy dose of patriotism. That is what America's big three carmakers are doing, in addition to continuing all the regular new-model advertising they had planned before Sept. 11. 
 Ford, for example, pulled back its advertising after the terrorist attacks, said Paige Johnson, the company's global marketing communications manager. But after President Bush exhorted Americans to return to "business as usual," Ford and General Motors began special campaigns, offering zero percent financing through the end of this month on many of their 2001 and 2002 vehicles. 
Ford's new ads, called "Ford Drives America," speak euphemistically about "challenging times" and that "we at Ford want to do our part to help move America forward." G.M.'s campaign, "Keep America Rolling," however, explicitly refers to Sept. 11, calling it the day "the world as we knew it came to a halt."
"We think it's important to keep workers working, and for the economy to keep rolling along," the ad says. "In this time of terrible adversity, let's stand together."
"This is what we call a 'call to action' ad," said Margaret G. Holmes, the director of regional marketing and communications for G.M. The company did not stop its advertising after Sept. 11, although few ads, if any, actually ran on television during the days after the terrorist attacks, when most network and many cable outlets stopped running commercials altogether. Instead, Ms. Holmes said, the company moved its retail advertising to newspapers and local television.
The Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler, like Ford, suspended ads for a few days. Like Ford and G.M., it is now offering interest-free financing, said James Kenyon, a company spokesman. But its new ads do not specifically mention the terrorist attacks. Chrysler, he said, also made significant changes only in Spanish-language print ads for the new Jeep Liberty, to run in magazines like People en Espanol. These ads featured a backdrop of the New York City skyline that was changed hastily to an image of the Statue of Liberty.
Nissan and BMW also reviewed their ads.
BMW pulled a commercial showing the company's Z3 sports car. The ad, which had been running before Sept. 11, featured "very spirited driving," as well as a number of quick shots of "all the wonderful things you can do in a car," said Jim McDowell, the vice president of marketing at BMW of North America. It ended with the wry tag line "God Bless America," which company officials thought was inappropriate after the attacks. 
BMW also pulled an ad for its 3-Series that featured the statement "life is short," Mr. McDowell said. (Some publishers, however, were unable to pull it, so the ad may still be in some magazines.) Images of the twin towers were also removed from the photo archives that are used for company ads.
Nissan removed a few commercials for Maxima, the company's midsize sedan, said Dierdre Dickerson, a spokeswoman for Nissan North America. The ads did not contain any images of New York or its skyline, but they featured the car traveling at very high speeds. "We believe that people now are hypersensitive to anything that they might think is dangerous," she said.
Otherwise, it is business as usual for Nissan. Now that broadcast and print ad schedules overall are back to normal, Ms. Dickerson said, so is Nissan's ad schedule, without any changes.
That is also the case at Honda. The company has not changed its ads, and was proceeding normally with its promotions, according to Art Garner, a spokesman for American Honda Motor Company. Honda's most important model introduction -- a 2002 version of its CR-V, a small sport utility vehicle -- was always scheduled for mid-November, Mr. Garner said. 
Toyota had already begun the much ballyhooed introduction of its newly redesigned Camry when the terrorists struck. The $160 million campaign is said to be Toyota's biggest effort since the company first started selling cars in the United States more than 40 years ago. And despite Sept. 11, "we haven't changed anything in the campaign for the Camry," said Ming-Jou Chen, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. 
Nor has the advertising changed for Toyota's other products, Ms. Chen added. As of early this month, there were zero percent financing offers for some models, including Corolla, Tundra and 4Runner, but these were not in response to the terrorist attacks, she said.
SO far, it is hard to tell whether the advertising is working. Car sales have rebounded since Sept. 11, but the levels are nowhere near what they were a year ago. The zero percent finance promotions seem to be yielding greater showroom traffic and sales, said Ms. Holmes of G.M., though the uniqueness of current circumstances makes it "hard" to be sure. 
Although more sales may be a good thing, in the short term the financial incentives may not help the industry in the future. The zero percent interest incentives may haunt them, according to Jim Hall, the vice president of AutoPacific, an automotive industry consulting firm in Southfield, Mich., and Tustin, Calif.
"People may begin to expect low-cost financing at all times," Mr. Hall said. "It's like the rebates that started during the 1973-74 fuel crisis that never went away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A question for carmakers: how to get attention when there is no appetite for hype. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SALES FINANCING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); HIJACKING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%) AUTOMOBILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ;FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER GROUP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



349 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Mixed Signals As Motorola's Loss Meets Expectations

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Investors nervously awaiting earnings data reflecting the business impact of the Sept. 11 attacks received mixed signals late yesterday from Motorola, the first large technology company to report earnings for the quarter that ended on Sept. 30.
 Motorola lost $1.4 billion, or 64 cents a share. But after excluding special charges for items like bad debts and previously reported measures to trim costs, the company said the loss was just $144 million, or 7 cents a share. The latter figure matched Wall Street's expectations as tracked by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
 Motorola said that revenue for the quarter was $7.41 billion, about $100 million less than the company had projected just a week before the attacks. Some analysts had expected better while others had feared a steeper drop. The figure reflected a decline of 22 percent from the quarter a year ago, when the company reported net profit of $531 million, or 23 cents a share.
Motorola said that its cellular phone business returned to profitability after two quarters of losses and that orders for its troubled semiconductor unit had exceeded sales for the first time since the third quarter of last year. But the cable modem and broadband equipment operations and network systems had a rougher quarter than some had expected.
"Motorola is an especially challenged company in a challenging environment," said Brian Modoff, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown in San Francisco who is expected to be among many seeking clarification of the figures in a Motorola conference call this morning.
Christopher B. Galvin, Motorola's embattled chairman and chief executive, said the Sept. 11 attacks had made forecasting the timing of an economic upturn more difficult. But Mr. Galvin was not ready to abandon Motorola's previous projections that a recovery will begin in the first half of next year. He said in a statement that any negative effect from the unpredictability associated with fighting terrorism might be offset by positive factors like tax relief, interest rate reductions and increased government spending.
Motorola, which is based in Schaumburg, Ill., made its announcement after the close of trading on Wall Street. The company had been the fifth most active Big Board stock and lost 67 cents to close at $16.72. In after hours trading, the stock fell a further 36 cents a share.
Analysts had been split on the importance of Motorola's earnings. Although the company is the first major technology giant to report, it is no longer the industry leader in either cellular communications or semiconductors, its two main businesses.
Jeffrey D. Saut, senior vice president for investment strategy at Raymond James & Associates, a brokerage firm based in St. Petersburg, Fla., said that investors should not read too much into the earnings of any major technology company over the next few weeks. Most technology companies derive a large part of the quarter's business from sales in the last half of September, a period when many businesses slowed to a crawl this year, he said.
But others said that Motorola's report was an especially revealing indicator because on Sept. 6, just five days before the attacks, the company had advised Wall Street to reduce its expectations. As a result, the actual results seemed to provide strong evidence that business did not plunge sharply after the attacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MODEMS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (67%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (67%); BROADBAND (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX RELIEF (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC3663 RADIO & TV COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



350 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Supreme Court Rejects Latest Microsoft Appeal
The Supreme Court rejected a request by Microsoft to consider throwing out the government's antitrust lawsuit because of misconduct by the federal trial judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson.
 The decision clears the way for another judge to consider the most appropriate penalty for Microsoft's antitrust violations. That judge has ordered lawyers from the company, the federal government and the states to engage in settlement talks, but the nearly two weeks of talks have so far been fruitless, several participants said. Shares of Microsoft fell $3.48, to $54.56. Page C2. 

Airlines Demonstrate Lobbying Skill
The speed with which Congress agreed to $15 billion in aid and loan guarantees for the airline industry is not just a testament to the importance of air travel to the nation's economy. It is also an example of the power of the airline lobby, and the skill with which it marshaled its considerable resources. A1.

Shipping Industry Slump Deepens
The container shipping industry is in a deepening slump, a result of the sagging global economy, the Sept. 11 attacks and the war on terrorism. World Business, Section W.

Social Networks Survive Attacks
In the wake of the terrorist attacks, left behind at firms like Cantor Fitzgerald are networks of survivors, loose-knit clans of wives, partners and children woven together by the office friendships of people now dead. D1.

Small Law Practices Hurt the Most
There are 14,000 lawyers in Lower Manhattan, and most have been affected by the World Trade Center's collapse. D1.

Ruling Issued in Credit Card Case
Visa and MasterCard must end their practice of barring member banks from distributing rivals' credit cards, a federal judge ruled in a decision that will most likely benefit American Express and Morgan Stanley. C17.

Judge Decides in Part for El Paso
A federal administrative law judge recommended that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission throw out a complaint contending that the El Paso Corporation manipulated natural gas prices higher in California. But the judge also said that El Paso skewed the bidding for capacity on its natural gas pipeline to help its subsidiary win the auction. C4.

She Was Shaped by Family Debates
Anne M. Mulcahy, chief executive of Xerox, said she grew up in a home that did not differentiate between being a man or a woman. Each night at dinner, she and her four brothers, mother and father would discuss politics, religion, "anything that was contentious," she said. "I learned that you can disagree, even fight, without confusing theoretical arguments with personal attacks." The Boss. C6.

Digital Music Rights Licensed
The major record companies said that they had licensed digital distribution rights from the nation's songwriters and music publishers in a deal that paves the way for the introduction of new Internet music services. C2.

A.I.G. Chief Sees Rates Leaping
Maurice R. Greenberg, the chief executive of the American International Group, said that prices for some kinds of commercial insurance were doubling, up from expected increases of 20 percent to 60 percent. C4.

Loss at Motorola Meets Forecasts
Motorola, the first large technology company to report earnings for the quarter ended Sept. 30, posted a loss that matched estimates. C3.

F.A.A. Issues Carry-On Guidelines
The Federal Aviation Administration this week issued guidelines on what may be carried on board an airplane. Fliers may now bring on board one carry-on bag and one "personal bag," defined as "a purse, a laptop, a briefcase." Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of Microsoft shares for the past week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,052.44 down 15.50Nasdaq composite -- 1,570.19 down 35.7610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.59% up 0.09The euro -- $0.9130 down 0.0076The dollar -- 120.24 yen up 0.41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); LITIGATION (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (85%); MUSIC (83%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); AIRLINES (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); WAR ON TERROR (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); RELIGION (69%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); RECORD INDUSTRY (68%); CONTAINERIZATION (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (62%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (61%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (61%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (61%); SONG WRITING (60%); INTERNET AUDIO (60%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); EL PASO CORP (82%); VISA INC (82%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); V (NYSE) (82%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (82%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (82%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ANNE MULCAHY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



351 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE RULERS; 
America's Muslim Allies: A Time of Trial

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Just how big a threat to moderate Arab and Muslim regimes is Osama bin Laden's militant sword of Islam?
 It is a question very much on the mind of Arab kings, emirs and Presidents and, not least of all, of policy makers in Washington. 
 As American rockets and bombs fell on Afghanistan, governments throughout the region fortified their streets, and protests mounted. Friday -- when noon prayers on the Muslim sabbath provide a rallying point for demonstrators -- loomed as a potential test.
But the question is difficult to answer in a region defined by ancient, complex tradition and torn by the temptations of modernity. 
It is particularly difficult for the United States, the epitome of a secular society, as it tries to draw friendly Arab and Muslim regimes into its anti-terrorist coalition. Will the so-called "Arab street" rise up, as in the days of the nationalists who supported Gamal Abdel Nasser in Egypt in the 1950's? Or will the people of the lands where repression is usually government's sole efficient function, believe, as usual, that words are a substitute for action? 
And even if the many chose safety and comfort, could the dedicated few still wreak enough havoc to reach their goals?
The most threatened regimes appear to be Pakistan, America's key ally in the hunt for Mr. bin Laden; Saudi Arabia, the land of his birth and the home of his religious sect; Jordan, long a loyal client of the West; and, improbably enough to Americans, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, whose own policemen fired on Palestinian students in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday as they protested American bombing raids.
A clue to Mr. bin Laden's appeal lies in a sentence of his television appearance on Sunday lauding the destruction of the World Trade Center and the killing of thousands.
"But when the sword fell upon America after 80 years," he said, "hypocrisy raised its head up high bemoaning those killers who toyed with the blood, honor and sanctities of Muslims."
Eighty years?
What he is talking about is the aftermath of World War I, when, with Ottoman empire demolished, Western powers carved up the Middle East into artificial states in their own interests, betraying promises to Arab allies and agreeing to establish a Jewish homeland.
It was, in Mr. bin Laden's view, and that of many Arabs of all classes, the beginning of a long humiliation.
So in his videotape, Mr. bin Laden portrays himself as a warrior from Islam's first, austere desert days, his only adornment an AK-47 assault rifle leaning against a rock. The appeal, he hopes, will resonate with modern issues and frustrations.
Pakistan has already seen wild street protests against Gen. Pervez Musharraf's military government and its support of the American assault, particularly in the areas near the mountainous border with Afghanistan Pakistan is in an awkward position, since its military intelligence agency in essence created the Taliban. The Americans and Saudis poured roughly $5 billion through Pakistani intelligence into the Afghan rebels to defeat the Soviets in the 1980's. There is widespread resentment that, the job done and the Cold War over, America stepped away, leaving both countries awash in drugs, guns, refugees and mounting anarchy.
Saudi Arabia has long been the main target of Mr. bin Laden's wrath. He regards the presence of American troops there as blasphemy. The Saudi royal family is vulnerable because its political legitimacy is based on religion -- its role as guardians of the two most sacred sites of Islam, Mecca and Medina. The royal family adheres to the stern Wahhabi branch of the faith, as does Mr. bin Laden. But he accuses them of hypocrisy and corruption. He exerts a strong appeal among the young, many clergymen and even some members of the royal family. Economic difficulties have also brought unrest to the once oil-rich kingdom, where many people now are being forced to seek paid employment.
Jordan's problems are more complicated. It is truly an artificial state, its Hashemite ruling family keeping their unpromising patch of desert viable in large part by skillfully handling relations with the West. The majority of Jordan's population is of Palestinian origin, increasingly infuriated over the conflict with Israel and receptive to fundamentalism. In past times of danger -- like the Black September civil war with the Palestine Liberation Organization in 1970 -- King Hussein relied on his affinity with the bedouin desert tribesmen who formed his loyal army. His untried successor, King Abdullah, may not have that same affinity.
Mr. Arafat, long a master of manipulating factions with his movement, has found himself buffeted and outpaced by the Islamic Jihad and Hamas movements as the struggle grows more brutal on both sides. His mainstream Palestinian officials, sensitive to international opinion, have denounced the attacks in the United States.
But this week, Mr. Arafat's police opened fire on young Palestinian demonstrators who chanted Mr. bin Laden's name and carried his picture. Two were killed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WORLD WAR I (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RIOTS (76%); POLITICS (68%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) KIFNER, JOHN; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA; JORDAN; PAKISTAN; ISRAEL; AFGHANISTAN; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



352 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
NORDSTROM LOWERS PROFIT EXPECTATIONS FOR QUARTER

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Nordstrom slashed its profit forecast for the fiscal third quarter because of declining sales and profit-eroding price cuts. 
Earnings in the period ending this month will be 3 cents to 6 cents a share, below the previous estimate of 17 cents to 20 cents, the company said. Analysts had cut their average forecast to 10 cents from 17 cents, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, as the slowing economy and the terrorist attacks hurt consumer spending. Nordstrom's September same-store sales dropped 9.4 percent from a year ago. The company is based in Seattle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) FINANCES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC 

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (93%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (69%) WASHINGTON, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



353 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Shake-Up in the Shipping Industry 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

 BODY:
The port of Tacoma, Wash., was expecting a slack fourth quarter even before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. With slowing trade between North America and Asia, container traffic through the port was 11.7 percent lower in August than a year earlier, and Douglas V. Ljungren, the port's business planning manager, was forecasting an 8 percent decline in the final three months of the year.
 Now, Mr. Ljungren has revised the forecast to an 11 percent decline and is also projecting no growth in traffic through 2002. Even that is probably optimistic, he says. 
 Throughout the world, the container shipping industry is in a deepening slump, a result of the one-two-three punch of the sagging global economy, the Sept. 11 attacks and the war on terrorism. Companies whose vessels ply the shipping lane between the west coast of North America and Asia, the world's busiest, have been hit particularly hard by the economic slowdown on both sides of the Pacific as well as a steady stream of big new container vessels joining the route.
Freight rates have dropped sharply and sailing schedules are being trimmed, even as the war on terrorism pushes up insurance premiums. As the financial pressure intensifies on shipping lines and the businesses that depend on them, talk in the industry has turned to mergers, acquisitions and even bankruptcies.
Last week, the shipping world was shaken when the Mediterranean Shipping Company, based in Geneva, chartered a container ship for a year at a rate of $11,500 a day, 18 percent lower than similar deals just a week earlier. Lloyd's List, the London-based shipping publication that reported the deal, said "the unprecedented decline reflects the growing crisis within the liner shipping industry."
According to John Fossey, executive consultant at Drewry Shipping Consultants in London, container freight rates have dropped by double digits so far this year, with single-voyage contracts down as much as 30 percent. "There has been a marked reduction as the year has gone on," Mr. Fossey said. "We believe that Sept. 11 will soften the trade even further."
Containers and the ships that carry them have revolutionized trade over the last three decades. By making it easier -- and thus cheaper -- to transport everything from coffee to toys, the standardized metal boxes have become a chief instrument of globalization, encouraging businesses to make or buy products in one part of the world and sell them in another.
With the equivalent of about 15 million 20-foot containers, known as TEU's, now crisscrossing the globe, the state of the container shipping industry has become a good barometer of the overall health of the world economy.
Signs of a slump were evident before Sept. 11. "It's very simple economics," said Andrew P. Scott, chief operating officer of the NACA Logistics Group of Long Beach, Calif., which buys container space for importers and exporters. "It's a huge amount of supply and a small amount of demand, and demand is continuing to weaken."
For the first time in several years, lines plying the Pacific have not imposed a surcharge on freight rates during the peak shipping season, July to November. The rates themselves are also sliding.
Fay Szeto, import manager in Long Beach for Jet Air Service Forwarding, which is based in Atlanta, said she recently paid as little as $1,300 per TEU from China to the West Coast, compared with $1,600 six months ago and a 1999-2000 peak of about $2,800. "This year's Christmas importing has dropped 50 percent for my clients," she said.
Thomas Grohmann, vice president and assistant general manager at the MI Group, an international moving company based in Mississauga, Ontario, has also seen a big drop. "We can buy freight on a container now cheaper than we could five years ago," he said.
The fallout from the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington has not only clouded the outlook for the world economy, and thus international trade, but is also likely to push up shipping costs.
In North America, security at seaports has been stepped up. Inspections of vessels, cargoes and crews have been intensified. Inbound ships must now provide the Coast Guard with crew lists and cargo manifests at least 96 hours before arriving at a United States port, up from 24 hours. Shipping lines report few serious disruptions so far. But in a business where time is money, concern is high that security considerations could put even more pressure on the bottom line.
For example, shipping lines and insurance companies are engaged in fierce negotiations on "war risk" surcharges on premiums. These extra levies would be heaviest on routes in South Asia and the Middle East, including the Suez Canal, one of the world's busiest waterways.
"There's a strong sentiment these will be passed on to our customers," said Raymond Miles, chief executive of CP Ships, a former unit of Canadian Pacific and the largest trans-Atlantic container carrier. Insurance, Mr. Miles added, makes up less than 1 percent of total shipping costs.
But customers may resist. Mr. Grohmann at the MI Group, for example, said he was concerned that the war risk surcharge could wipe out much of the recent reduction in freight rates.
Hopes of a turnaround soon are also clouded by a surge of orders for big container ships over the last two years, when shipowners were bent on expansion and economies of scale. And much of the expansion by container companies to fill what was an expected need is still in the pipeline.
Drewry Shipping Consultants projects that container shipping capacity worldwide, which grew 11.4 percent last year, will grow another 8.8 percent this year and 10.6 percent in 2002.
The increasing mismatch between supply and demand has hit the Asian trade first. But Mr. Miles of CP Ships predicted that it would have a "cascading effect," putting pricing pressure on ship operators around the world. Each $10 drop in rates on a TEU knocks $20 million off CP Ships' bottom line, even though its costs are lower than many of its competitors.
The pressure is reflected in what many say will be a protracted period of contraction, a period already begun. Cho Yang Shipping of South Korea quit operating in August. The Far Eastern Shipping Company, a Russian line, recently halted services between Shanghai, Hong Kong and Los Angeles.
Five Chinese, Japanese and Korean lines are exploring an alliance in an effort to reverse the recent slide in freight rates. On a smaller scale, Tropical Shipping, of Riviera Beach, Fla., will strengthen its dominance in the Caribbean later this month by taking over the container shipping business of Kent Line International, a company based in Saint John, New Brunswick. Tropical is a unit of Nicor.
"We see consolidation as one of the only answers to deal with the overcapacity," Mr. Fossey, the London consultant, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A container ship being loaded in Oakland, Calif. Freight rates have dropped sharply and sailing schedules have been cut back since the terror attacks last month in New York and at the Pentagon. On the other hand, companies that ship goods have found some bargain rates. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); AIRLINES (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; CONTAINERIZATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INSURANCE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: MEDITERRANEAN SHIPPING CO SA (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%)

PERSON: ;SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TACOMA, WA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



354 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
High-Tech Shares Lead Decline as Investors Stay Away

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday, led by the high-technology sector, as uncertainty over the impact of military strikes on Afghanistan and prospects of a dismal earnings period left investors with few reasons to buy shares.
 Wall Street was on edge as the United States engaged in a third consecutive day of bombing in Afghanistan in reprisal for last month's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, analysts said. 
 "This is a wait-and-see game," said John Forelli, senior vice president at Independence Investment L.L.C. "Between earnings about to be announced and the ongoing conflicts in Asia, it doesn't pay for anyone to really go out on a limb."
Semiconductor stocks like Intel fell after Wall Street firms lowered forecasts for the sector on fears of a bigger-than-expected slowdown in spending on high-priced technology items. Investors also locked in profits after a recent string of gains. Intel lost 79 cents, to $21.45. 
Microsoft also weighed on market indexes after the Supreme Court rejected its request to overturn an earlier ruling that Microsoft violated federal antitrust laws. Microsoft sank $3.48, to $54.56.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index snapped a five-session winning streak, falling 35.76 points, or 2.2 percent, to close at 1,570.19. Blue-chip stocks were also weaker. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 15.50 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,052.44. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 5.69 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,056.75.
Traders also said investors worry that more terrorist attacks on American soil could hurt the economy. 
Stocks tumbled more than 11 percent in the first week of trading after the Sept. 11 attacks. Even after a two-week rally, they remain 3 percent or more below pre-attack levels.
"Most people look at the market's big decline and feel like there are things around that must be cheap," said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed. "On the other hand, nobody really wants to really stick their neck out because of this uncertainty politically."
This week is also the start of the third-quarter earnings season, when companies report their results and issue forecasts for the rest of the year. Profits for companies in the S.& P. 500 are expected to fall more than 21 percent on average -- the worst quarterly performance in a decade, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
Chip makers tumbled after ABN Amro analysts said sales growth in the semiconductor industry would slow to a long-term average of 10 percent, rather than the 14 percent that stock markets have factored into current share prices.
Also, Merrill Lynch trimmed its earnings estimates on many semiconductor companies, saying it sees a 15 percent to 20 percent drop in semiconductor capital spending in 2002, rather than the 3 percent decline it predicted in August. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as investors anticipated the government might sell more debt to relieve a shortage. Investors had sought the safety of Treasuries after the terrorist attacks. 
The 10-year Treasury note fell 22/32, to a price of 103 7/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.59 percent from 4.50 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 28/32, to 100. The bond's yield rose to 5.37 percent from 5.32 percent on Monday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

3-Mo. Bills
Price: 99.449
High Rate: 2.180
Investment Rate: 2.222
Low Rate: 2.10%
Median Rate: 2.15%
Total applied for: $28,509,643
Accepted: $16,122,260
Noncompetitive: $1,419,917

6-Mo. Bills
Price: 98.913
High Rate: 2.150
Investment Rate: 2.204
Low Rate: 2.08%
Median Rate: 2.12%
Total applied for: $32,261,357
Accepted: $15,280,507
Noncompetitive: $1,282,269

Both issues are dated Oct. 11, 2001. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 10, 2002, and the six-month bills mature on April 11, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks percentages from one month ago and yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TALIBAN (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); MICROPROCESSORS (74%); SEMICONDUCTORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: LEE MUNDER CAPITAL GROUP (71%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (52%); WADDELL & REED INC (52%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); WDR (NYSE) (52%); ABO (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (71%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



355 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
National Crises, Real and Imagined

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein 

 BODY:
FASTER than would have been imaginable, we've been transformed from a nation of peace and prosperity to one of insecurity and economic stress. There are now real crises to worry about; we no longer have to invent them to enliven public debate.
 For many years, education has been a glass half full and half empty, but public attention focused mostly on the latter. Where emptiness didn't exist, we imagined it. 
 Democratic discussion needs catastrophes that reformers promise to fix. We spend $360 billion a year on education, our largest public enterprise. When there are few obvious failures elsewhere, the public naturally seeks them in schools.
The sense of school crisis accelerated with a 1983 report by a presidential commission. Ronald Reagan had taken office pledging to minimize the federal role in schools and abolish the Education Department. But the report, "A Nation at Risk," took the opposite tack, saying schools suffered from "a rising tide of mediocrity that threatens our very future as a nation and a people." It added a cold-war admonition: with inferior teaching, Americans had engaged in "unilateral disarmament."
Seldom has a claim been both so influential and so wrong. Yet it was often repeated to explain why Japanese, German and Korean companies had captured automobile, office-equipment and machine-tool markets. Today it is apparent that workers here did not, from poor schooling, suddenly have less skill than those elsewhere. Trade deficits that ballooned 20 years ago were caused not by low test scores but by corporate bloat, markets more open here than elsewhere and a budget deficit that pushed up interest rates and the dollar's value.
Flaws in the analysis should have become obvious when America outperformed Asia and Europe economically in the 1990's. But a crisis over perceptions that schools were failing had become a matter of faith, and leaders never rethought it. They certainly didn't credit schools for our renewed economic strength.
The 1983 report had other shortcomings, too. It misunderstood an apparent decline in test scores. College Board results had dropped, but that was due to growth in college-going ambition. The SAT was no longer taken only by top students, and so average scores of test-takers naturally fell.
Declines on other tests had been halted or even reversed by 1983. If there was a tide of mediocrity, it was not rising when the report was issued.
Along with competitiveness, the public has rightly been obsessed with inequality, the persistent gap in social and economic status between minority and white Americans. Inequality is caused by many factors: not only schools but also policies on employment, income distribution, labor regulation and health care. Yet for two decades policy makers have asked schools to assume the largest burden of social reform. 
In 1983 Terrel H. Bell was secretary of education, responsible for the "Nation at Risk" report. A decade later he recanted, saying the report had done great damage. "In the face of many negative influences on our children that come from outside the school," Mr. Bell wrote, the nation "foolishly concluded" that academic shortcomings were caused by faulty schools.
But his admission came too late. Politicians had made schools their signature issue, and newspaper headlines trumpeted tiny test score changes as proof of progress or failure. New programs were mandated before earlier ideas could take hold. Attention jumped from more testing to ending automatic promotion, to teacher certification changes, to more accountability, to higher graduation requirements, to vouchers.
Certainly schools should be improved. Some changes, like better academic standards, have been a big help. Despite slowly rising scores, more can be done, especially for minorities. Too many still fail to graduate, or graduate with unacceptably low achievement.
But as national-security and economic crises deflect attention from schooling, educators can use time away from the national spotlight to let reforms already prescribed take root.
In 1969, Daniel Patrick Moynihan advised President Richard M. Nixon that race relations could benefit from some "benign neglect." Though widely criticized for that, Mr. Moynihan was not advocating an end to racial progress. He proposed policies that would have enhanced equality, like creating better job opportunities for black men. But he thought that excessive rhetorical attention to race made it difficult to adopt positive incremental change.
We face a similar problem in education today. Schools can benefit from dampened argument and fewer unrealistic demands. As true national crises draw attention away from schools, benign neglect can help. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); TERRORISM (74%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); MISSING PERSONS (69%); MACHINE TOOLS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (70%) ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



356 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Credit Suisse Is Taking Hits On Wall Street And at Home

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN with ELIZABETH OLSON 

 BODY:
Credit Suisse First Boston, saddled with the highest cost structure on Wall Street, said yesterday that it would eliminate 2,000 jobs, or about 7 percent, of its workers worldwide.
 The investment bank lost $120 million on an operating basis in the third quarter and said it expected the reductions to help lower its costs $1 billion by the end of next year. 
 In Geneva, the bank's parent, the Credit Suisse Group, released a preliminary earnings statement that reflected not only its woes in the United States but troubled loans to Swissair and insurance losses. The group said it swung to a loss of $187 million in the third quarter, in contrast to a profit of about $806 million the previous three months. 
Like Credit Suisse First Boston, other Wall Street firms are cutting costs in response to sharp declines in virtually every facet of the securities business, and more layoffs are expected. The Goldman Sachs Group plans to eliminate about 300 jobs the next few weeks, according to a person inside the firm. About one-third of the cuts will come in investment banking and the rest in other departments, this person said.
An industry report published on Sept. 11 by analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein projected that nearly 34,000 workers, or 9 percent of the securities industry, would lose their jobs next year. Since then, the picture has darkened.
By one measure at least, the terrorist attacks will cost Wall Street more than $1 billion. The Securities Industry Association had expected the domestic operating profits of all Wall Street firms to be $1 billion to $1.4 billion in the third quarter. The association said yesterday that it now estimates a net loss of about $200 million, excluding the extraordinary losses for damage and the costs of relocating.
The industry has not posted such a loss since the third quarter of 1998, when the Asian currency crisis ballooned into the near-failure of Long-Term Capital Management.
"Wall Street is dealing with the harsh reality that they have to realign their expense base to revenues," said Henry McVey, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. "Credit Suisse First Boston faces the additional straddle of having excess capacity from the Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette merger." 
John Mack, who joined Credit Suisse First Boston as chief executive in July, had been widely expected to pare costs, which had swelled after the firm's purchase of Donaldson Lufkin in the summer of 2000 for $13.4 billion. During his many years as a top executive at Morgan Stanley, Mr. Mack was diligent about cutting costs.
In a memo to employees yesterday, he said that the current economic environment was "far more severe than anyone imagined prior to the tragedy of Sept. 11."
The 2,000 lost jobs will include about 750 members of the firm's investment banking division, reductions that were reported last week. The rest will come from every department and will be made around the world. 
The firm, which employs 9,500 in the New York area, declined to provide a breakdown of the job cuts by location. Worldwide, the firm has roughly 27,700 employees. 
"They needed to lay off people, no question," said Evangelos Kavouriadis, an equity analyst at Bernstein. "Mack is doing the right thing. The question is whether he will be able to bring it off. The track record at that firm is not great."
Credit Suisse First Boston said nothing about bonuses in its cost-cutting announcement. Those payouts, many of which have been guaranteed to crucial personnel, are a major reason the firm's compensation expense is more than 60 percent of net revenue, far above Wall Street norms.
Richard E. Thornburgh, chief financial officer at Credit Suisse First Boston, said that lower bonuses would account for some portion of the cost cuts. He declined to specify how much of a decline the firm would make in its variable compensation -- Wall Street parlance for a firm's bonus pool.
After discussions with compensation specialists, he said: "I would expect compensation levels for the industry will be down anywhere from 15 percent to 50 percent" from last year. 
Mr. Thornburgh added that many contracts are being renegotiated. "We think we are making significant progress in the renegotiation of those with guarantees," he said. 
"People inside this building understand they need to balance the obligations of their families with the rights of the organization and the shareholders," he added. "In the end run, I think the shareholder will be pleased." 
Since Mr. Mack arrived at the firm, he has been promoting the idea of one company, in stark contrast to the culture that had existed. For example, Frank Quattrone, the firm's star technology investment banker, has operated what has often been called his own fief in Silicon Valley. 
Under Alan Wheat, Mr. Mack's predecessor, Mr. Quattrone and his associates negotiated a revenue-sharing agreement with the firm. 
The investment bank's Swiss parent disclosed the impact of the economic downturn on several lines of business.
Analysts said they were surprised by the hits on what had been considered some of its, and Switzerland's, safest investments -- insurance and airlines.
Credit Suisse took a $250 million write-down on its 5 percent stake in Swiss Life, which is Switzerland's largest life insurer. The group also said lower investment income would produce significantly lower results for its insurance business, including Winterthur, which it acquired four years ago. 
Credit Suisse already had taken $125 million in provisions to cover its lending exposure to Swissair, which last week had to be bailed out by the Swiss government to keep operating until the end of the month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); MERGERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); INSURANCE (71%); TERRORISM (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CURRENCIES (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%) CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP; SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSN 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (94%); CS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; OLSON, ELIZABETH; BERNSTEIN, SANFORD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



357 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Freezes $1 Billion In Spending 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani signed an executive order yesterday that freezes $1 billion in city spending, a move designed to help New York recover from the terrorist attacks last month. In doing so, he asked almost every city agency to look for 15 percent in cuts and imposed an immediate hiring freeze.
 The order was directed at closing what the mayor's staff said was now a $1.6 billion shortage that resulted largely from a drastic drop in city revenue after Sept. 11. 
 In announcing the budget cuts, the creation of a reserve fund and a plan to court the state and federal government aggressively for various forms of financial aid, Mr. Giuliani appeared to be using the new moral context created by the World Trade Center attack to pursue the wish list of initiatives he has had for much of his second term. 
For instance, the mayor has long said many city agencies have fat to trim, and yesterday he called for 15 percent cuts in all city agencies except the Fire and Police Departments and the Board of Education, which would face trims of 2.5 percent. And he reiterated his call for the state government to approve measures like the city's sale of Off-Track Betting.
What was new yesterday is that he now can present his plan not as a matter simply of the city's recovery but as the backbone of an economic recovery plan for the entire nation. Indeed, the mayor stressed over and over that the city should not "go to Washington with a tin cup" but that it should be getting equity for Lower Manhattan's role as the engine of the national economic boom of the last several years. 
"We should not go back to the conception of the tin cup brigade era where mayors would go to Washington and beg, beg, beg for more money for welfare and beg, beg, beg for more money for this and beg, beg, beg for more money for that," said Mr. Giuliani, setting the stage for the largest component of his recovery plan. "We do not have to beg. We just have to ask for equity.
"We're the strongest part of the American economy," he continued. "We produce more for the federal government than any city, any place else in the country, we still do," saying the city sent billions more to Washington than it gets back. "The federal government can help us by readjusting some of that," he said. 
Before the terrorist attack, the city was projecting that it would end the current fiscal year with a $545 million surplus, the mayor said yesterday. That estimate did not account for things like pay raises to uniformed workers, reductions in state and federal funds and the failure to get approval to sell Off-Track Betting. 
His staff estimates the city has lost $1 billion in revenues due to the attack downtown, which, along with other items left unaccounted for, bring the gap to $1.6 billion, including a 33.9 percent loss in hotel taxes, a 33.2 percent drop in mortgage recording taxes and a 20.5 percent loss in personal income taxes.
To stem the bleeding, the mayor will seek approval for a host of tax breaks from the state, like the elimination of all sales taxes on clothing and a repeal of a $2 flat hotel tax. It will also push for the approval of the OTB sale, a step state lawmakers have stoutly opposed and that few believe will be taken, and the restoration of the stock transfer tax that the state eliminated last year. These are all items the mayor was seeking long before the trade center attack.
On the federal side, Mr. Giuliani has called for further tax cuts as well as larger reimbursements for Medicaid and aid to poor families.
"We send $49.1 billion to Washington and we get back only $41.1 billion," he said. "Reduce taxes and you leave money in our local economy. Reduce taxes and you give people the opportunity to spend money in New York. You invest in New York, do the things that they'll make the choice of doing in a free economy in New York."
The mayor has told city agencies that while he was withholding $1 billion and that they must cut accordingly, he would release some of that money should the $1 billion in expected revenue shortfalls not materialize. The City Council is expected to help agencies look for places to trim.
"We're all in this foxhole together now," said Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone. "This is in very real respects a war, and in a war you do the best you can with what you have." Mr. Vallone said the Council would seek to protect programs for children, the elderly and public safety. 
Yesterday, during his budget address, the first formal event the mayor had held at City Hall since the attacks, Mr. Giuliani appeared to be in his element once again. He looked rested. He made jokes. He took pokes at those he considers his political enemies -- the city's newspaper editorial writers and Fernando Ferrer -- and dropped in a glimpse of his administration's crime statistics during his presentations. He confessed that the digression was irrelevant but was nevertheless his personal favorite. "It's very nice being back in familiar territory," he said.
Indeed, most budget experts said that although the city would end the year on strong footing, the next mayor will face a budget shortage of about $4 billion and harder choices about how to balance it. "We will manage this problem," said Alan Hevesi, the city comptroller. "But next year will be a real problem."
The mayor also took pains yesterday to stress that the city's economy was strong even in the face of the terrorist devastation and that the city had already budgeted for a bad year on Wall Street and reduced revenues.
"We've faced significantly worse fiscal problems than the city faces right now," he said. "Certainly we faced them in the 70's, all throughout the 80's, various times in the 90's. The problems in our economy are real and substantial. But they are significantly less than problems that we have already encountered and overcome when our city didn't have the diversified economy and strong economy that it has right now."
Mr. Giuliani was adamant that the city not seek to increase any taxes in the near future, calling such an idea "dumb, stupid, idiotic and moronic."
And he took several pokes at Mr. Ferrer, who has suggested that he might raise taxes as mayor. 
"Sometime this city will go back to its prior political thinking," Mr. Giuliani said. 
"We have to resist with great, great force the temptation to raise taxes. It would be catastrophic for the City of New York right now to raise taxes. And anyone proposing it doesn't have the foggiest idea how to get us out of this problem. They will just get us back into the problem."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TERRORISM (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MISSING PERSONS (65%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



358 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: National Education Talks Languish in Shadow of War 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: PALISADES, N.Y., Oct. 9 

 BODY:
The governors of 25 states and the chief executives of three dozen Fortune 500 companies were committed to attend the fourth national education summit conference here today. Organizers also received strong and repeated signals from the White House that President Bush would be here, too, just as his predecessors had addressed the education conferences in 1989, 1996, 1999. But ultimately the conference could not compete with the major distractions produced by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and the war in Afghanistan. Attendance was sparse, with nine governors sending regrets.
 That illustrates how suddenly and dramatically education has been dislodged, however temporarily, as a top priority of the nation's business and political leadership in the aftermath of the attacks. 
 By the time the conference began this afternoon, the no-shows included the president, who never officially accepted the invitation; the president's brother Jeb, the governor of Florida; Gov. Gray Davis of California; and Gov. George Ryan of Illinois. Ten of the corporate leaders canceled as well, including Stephen M. Case, the chairman of AOL Time Warner; C. Michael Armstrong, the chairman of AT&T; and William Harrison Jr., the president and chief executive of J. P. Morgan Chase.
Indeed, at the request of those leaders who did show up, the conference will conclude earlier than scheduled on Wednesday so the participants can board a ferry and travel 30 miles south to tour the remains of the World Trade Center.
"Will this agenda, in the short term, have a harder time fighting for room in the country's psyche?" Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the chairman and chief executive of I.B.M., asked in an interview. "Of course. So will every other agenda."
But Mr. Gerstner, who had insisted that the show go on here at an I.B.M. corporate training center, said he was optimistic that efforts to overhaul the nation's education system would soon return to the front burner.
"There's an obvious and understandable preoccupation right now with winning the war," said Mr. Gerstner, who with Gov. John Engler of Michigan is chairman of the nonprofit organization that formally convened the meeting. "Yet most of us still have to go to work every day. And children are still going to school."
To that end, much of the discussion here centered on setting the next goals for a movement that, in recent years, succeeded in pressing nearly every state to write new standards for what students should know and new tests to assess whether they were learning that material.
Of critical importance, the participants agreed, was seeking to narrow the gap between the performances of white and minority students -- a disparity that has not only persisted for decades, but, by some measures, has also widened in recent years.
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington -- who was joined here by Governors George E. Pataki of New York and Roy Barnes of Georgia, among others -- said that the improvements he and other political officials had helped engineer risked being lost if minority students continued to be left behind.
"We're not helping certain groups attain the standards we think are important," Mr. Locke told the gathering, which included Phil Condit, the chairman of Boeing; Rod Paige, the secretary of education; and the presidents of the two national teachers unions.
While divisive issues like vouchers were left off the conference's agenda, the governors and state education superintendents expressed unease about another matter: the impact of the president's education bill, which is being discussed this month by House and Senate conferees and is expected to be taken up by the full Congress before its November break.
One provision of the bill on which Republicans and Democrats agree is that all students should be tested in grades three through eight in reading and mathematics. But because few states test students in even half those grades, the new requirement is expected to impose an enormous financial burden on the states, one that they will have to bear almost entirely on their own.
In Rhode Island, implementing the president's plan would cost an additional $4 million in the first two years, just to develop the new tests, said Peter McWalters, the state commissioner of education.
"I'm not against testing every kid every year," Mr. McWalters said. "But this is tragic. It's going to divert money from early childhood reading programs."
The participants also raised concerns about a proposal that Mr. Gerstner, in particular, was pushing to increase teachers' salaries sharply. While no one disputed the nobility of the suggestion, many of the participants wondered where the money could be found at a time when the economy was shrinking, as were their budgets. Mr. Gerstner had little advice he could offer, other than the time-worn suggestion that administrators pare their bureaucracies.
Indeed, for all the constructive conversation, much of it seemed far-removed from the complex realities of principals and teachers, few of whom were invited to participate in the conversations here.
"Everything that's being said is right on target," said Troy Simmons, a school board member in Longview, Tex., who was part of the Texas delegation. "But no matter what they say at this summit, the responsibility for doing it falls on the local people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis V. Gerstner Jr., chairman and chief executive of I.B.M., addressed the national education conference yesterday in Palisades, N.Y. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); AIRLINES (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: AOL INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); STEVE CASE (58%); GARY LOCKE (57%) STEINBERG, JACQUES; GERSTNER, LOUIS V JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



359 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2068 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MASTERMIND; 
A Portrait of the Terrorist: From Shy Child to Single-Minded Killer

BYLINE:  This article is based on reporting by Neil MacFarquhar, Jim Yardley and Paul Zielbauer and was written by Mr. Yardley. 

 BODY:
Precisely two years ago, not long before he traveled to the United States to coordinate the worst terrorist attacks in history, Mohamed Atta attended a wedding. The event was held in the German port city of Hamburg, where Mr. Atta had recently earned a university degree, but this was not the marriage of a college friend.
 The groom was Said Bahaji, now the focus of an international manhunt for his suspected role in the Sept. 11 attacks. Prominent among the guests was Mamoun Darkazanli, a Syrian businessman suspected of being a financial conduit for Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda organization. Another guest was Mr. Atta's friend, Marwan al-Shehhi, whom authorities say crashed the second hijacked airliner into the World Trade Center. 
 This was not what Mr. Atta's father in Egypt had imagined when he sent his son abroad to earn the sort of academic degree that would bring him prestige and success at home. Instead of becoming an architect or an urban planner, Mr. Atta had become an Islamic terrorist. 
Mr. Atta's path to Sept. 11, pieced together from interviews with people who knew him across 33 years and three continents, was a quiet and methodical evolution of resentment that somehow -- and that how remains the essential imponderable -- took a leap to mass-murderous fury.
The youngest child of a pampering mother and an ambitious father, Mr. Atta was a polite, shy boy who came of age in an Egypt torn between growing Western influence and the religious fundamentalism that gathered force in reaction. But it was not until he was on his own, in the West, that his religious faith deepened and his resentments hardened. The focus of his disappointment became the Egyptian government; the target of his blame became the West, and especially America.
In Hamburg, his life divided into before and after. He would disappear more than once, and officials say they have strong evidence that he trained at Mr. bin Laden's terrorist camps in Afghanistan during the late 1990's. It was also in those years, German investigators say, that Mr. Atta became part of the Hamburg cell that became a key planning point for the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"I remember that he changed somewhat," said Dittmar Machule, his academic supervisor at Hamburg Technical University. "He looked more serious, and he didn't smile as much."
His acquaintances from that time still cannot reconcile him as a killer, but in hindsight the raw ingredients of his personality suggest some clues. He was meticulous, disciplined and highly intelligent.
His vision of Islam embraced resolute precepts of fate and destiny and purity, and, ultimately, tolerated no compromise. He ate no pork and scraped the frosting off cakes, in case it contained lard. He threatened to leave the university unless he was given a room for a prayer group. He spoke of a desire to marry, but was remote to the point of rudeness with women, considering most insufficiently devout. 
Those who had known him as a quiet student say his demeanor became more brooding, more troubled. The most obvious change was both cosmetic and spiritual: he had grown the beard of an Islamic fundamentalist.

A Shy and Sheltered Boy
The genteel gloss of the Abdein neighborhood of Cairo had dulled to shabby disrepair by the early 1980's when Mohamed al-Amir Atta entered his teenage years. The government workers who had once lived well on $100 a month found themselves in a vortex of downward mobility, working second and third jobs to survive. 
Mr. Atta's father, a lawyer, considered his neighbors inferior, even if he, too, feared the economic undertow. Neighbors recalled an arrogant man who often passed without a word or a glance. 
The family was viewed as thoroughly modern, the two daughters headed for careers as a professor and a doctor. The father was the disciplinarian, grumbling that his wife spoiled their bright, if timid, son, who continued to sit on her lap until enrolling at Cairo University.
"I used to tell her that she is raising him as a girl, and that I have three girls, but she never stopped pampering him," Mohamed al-Amir Atta Sr. recalled in a recent interview at his apartment. 
In a high school classroom of 26 students grouped by their shared given name, Mohammed Hassan Attiya recalled that Mr. Atta focused solely on becoming an engineer -- and following his father's bidding.
"I never saw him playing," Mr. Attiya said. "We did not like him very much, and I think he wanted to play with the rest of the boys, but his family, and I think his father, wanted him to always perform in school in an excellent way."
The social, political and religious pressures roiling Egypt exploded in 1981 with the assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat, the first Arab leader to make peace with Israel. Fundamentalists decried him as a puppet of the West, a traitor to Islam. 
Even for a boy as sheltered as Mr. Atta, the disillusionment on the streets would have been difficult to ignore. His father, without explanation, says his son began to pray in earnest at 12 or 13, an awakening that coincided closely with Sadat's slaying. But the elder Mr. Atta said his son's religious inclination did not extend to politics. 
"I advised him, like my father advised me, that politics equals hypocrisy," his father said. 
The boy refused to join a basketball league because it was organized by the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's most established religious political organization, which also recruited from Cairo University's engineering department but not, apparently, Mr. Atta, who graduated from there in 1990. 
His degree meant little in a country where thousands of college graduates were unable to find good jobs. Though Mr. Atta found work with a German company in Cairo and was reluctant to leave his mother and sisters, his father convinced him that only an advanced degree from abroad would allow him to prosper in Egypt. Soon he was headed to Hamburg Technical University on scholarship.
"I told him I needed to hear the word 'doctor' in front of his name," his father recalled. "We told him your sisters are doctors and their husbands are doctors and you are the man of the family." 
From initial appearances, the slender young Mr. Atta remained the same person in Hamburg that he had been in Egypt -- polite, distant and neatly dressed. He answered a classified ad and was hired part-time at an urban planning firm, plankontor. He impressed his co-workers with his diligence and the careful elegance of his drafting. 
Yet he must have felt unmoored, on his own in a strange land. He took refuge in the substantial population of Turkish, African and Arab immigrants living in the blue-collar Harburg section surrounding the university. There, his religious faith, still tentative in Egypt, took deeper hold. 
He brought a prayer carpet to his job and carefully adhered to Islamic dietary restrictions, shunning alcohol and checking the ingredients of everything, even medicine. He had his choice of three mosques, but the two closest to campus were dominated by Turks, whom many local Arabs disdained as less devout and too sympathetic to America.
Instead, Mr. Atta often prayed at the Arabic-language Al-Tauhid mosque, a bleak back room of a small shop where the imam, Ahmed Emam, preached that America was an enemy of Islam and a country "unloved in our world."
Mr. Atta's academic focus was Arab cities, specifically preserving them in the face of Western-style development. He returned to Cairo for three months in 1995 to observe a renovation project around the old city gates, Bab Al-Nasr and Bab Al-Futuh. The project, he came to believe, involved little more than knocking down a poor neighborhood to improve the views for tourists. 
"It made him angry," recalled Ralph Bodenstein, one of two German students in the program. "He said it was a completely absurd way to develop the city, to make a Disneyworld out of it."
Over meals with Mr. Bodenstein and the other German student, Volker Hauth, Mr. Atta spoke bitterly about the government's suppression of Islamic fundamentalist groups and the clinics and day care centers they had built in ignored neighborhoods. 
His sympathy for their cause, Mr. Atta feared, would doom his own future at home. His only hope for a good urban-planning job in Egypt was to be hired by an international organization. He tried but never was. The young man sent West to better his future at home now worried that he had no future in Egypt at all. 
He returned to Hamburg in 1996, and investigators say he eventually moved into an apartment at 54 Marienstrasse with two other suspected hijackers, Mr. al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah. 
In November 1997 he paid an unexpected visit to his academic supervisor, Professor Machule, to discuss his thesis, then disappeared again for about a year. Federal officials say they have strong evidence that he trained at an Al Qaeda camp in Afghanistan during the late 1990's, which could explain his whereabouts in 1998.
He reappeared in Hamburg in early 1999, the period that German investigators connect him with the cell of about 20 other suspected terrorists. At the university, he insisted on a room for an Islamic prayer group. A student council representative demurred, suspicious that such organizations were cover for terrorist recruitment. 
"He said, 'This is about my life. If I cannot pray here, I cannot study here, at this university,' " said the council representative, Marcus Meyer.
Mr. Atta's degree had been on hold; suddenly, finishing it became imperative. He submitted his thesis in August 1999. When he successfully defended his thesis, graduating with high honors, Mr. Atta refused to shake hands with one of the two judges, a woman. 
His father has told reporters that his son earned a masters degree in Germany, but in fact, Mr. Atta received only an undergraduate degree. But his attentions were already elsewhere. He began preparing to go to America.

A Disciplined Perfectionist
With few exceptions, Mohamed Atta regarded the Americans who crossed his path with the same contempt his father once reserved for his Cairo neighbors. He was polite when he had to be -- to rent a car or an airplane -- but the mildness recalled by his friends in Egypt and Germany was gone, as was his beard.
He arrived in June at Newark International Airport and would spend the next 15 months in near perpetual motion, earning a pilot's license in Florida during the last six months of 2000, then spending the first nine months of 2001 traveling across the country and at least twice to Europe.
The awful efficiency of the attack demanded a leader with a precise and disciplined temperament, and Mr. Atta apparently filled that role. Federal investigators have told a House committee that in the fall of 2000, as he was in the middle of flight training in Venice, Fla., Mr. Atta received a wire transfer of more than $100,000 from a source in the United Arab Emirates. Investigators believe the source was Mustafa Ahmad, thought to be an alias for Shaykh Said, a finance chief for Mr. bin Laden.
For much of 2001, Mr. Atta appeared to make important contacts with other hijackers or conspirators. He traveled twice to Spain, in January and July, and officials are investigating whether he met with Al Qaeda contacts. He also used Florida as a base to move around the United States, including trips to Atlanta, where he rented a plane, to New Jersey, where he may have met with other hijackers, and at least two trips to Las Vegas. Everywhere he went, he made hundreds of cell phone calls and made a point to rent computers for e-mails, including at a Las Vegas computer store, Cyberzone, where customers can play a video game about terrorists with a voice that declares "terrorists win."
While Mr. Atta was considered a perfectionist, he was not infallible. Brad Warrick, owner of a rental agency in South Florida where Mr. Atta returned a car two days before the attack, found an ATM receipt and a white Post-it note that became key evidence. Mr. Atta's decision to wire $4,000 overseas shortly before the attacks left an electronic trail that investigators believe is leading back to Al Qaeda. Finally, authorities found his luggage at Logan Airport in Boston, containing, among other things, his will. It remains unclear if the bag simply missed the connection to his flight.
Or perhaps the introvert, the meticulous planner, the man who believed he was doing God's will, wanted to make certain the world knew his name. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Egyptian passport photo of Mohamed Atta in 1996 is the most recent photo his father has of him. In 1981, he visited a theme park in Cairo called Merryland with his two sisters and his parents. People who knew him recalled an unpopular boy who rarely played.; Mohamed Atta with his parents in about 1983. His mother pampered him, but his disciplinarian father thought him girlish. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MARRIAGE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) YARDLEY, JIM; ATTA, MOHAMED 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (94%); GERMANY (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



360 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Pressed by Pakistan, India Rejects New Talks
For the second time this week, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan invited Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India to visit Islamabad for talks. A spokesman for the prime minister said the invitation had been declined, reflecting Indian anger about a terror attack by a Pakistan-based Islamic group on Oct. 1 in Kashmir that killed 38 people. A3

Arafat Fighting Dissension
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, worked to contain his worst internal crisis in years by redirecting the anger at the cause that all factions could agree on: resisting Israel. A10

New U.N. Charges for Milosevic
The war crimes tribunal in The Hague published its second indictment of the former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, this time charging him with war crimes in Croatia. A8

Amnesty in Macedonia
The government issued an amnesty for ethnic Albanian rebels who had given up their arms, honoring a central part of a peace accord. A8

Russia Cites Ukraine in Crash
Russian officials appeared to confirm that Ukraine's military accidentally shot down a Russian passenger jet over the Black Sea. A6

World Briefing A12

NATIONAL A13-15

Supreme Court Voids Fees for Religious Event
The Supreme Court set aside an appellate ruling that let Tucson, Ariz., charge organizers of a national day of prayer for municipal services that it provides free to other groups holding events in city parks under nonprofit sponsorship. The action was a further indication of how seriously the justices take the "equal access" principle that they have been developing for speech with a religious message. A13

Vehicle Mileage Ratings
Less than 6 percent of the 2002 model cars and trucks arriving in showrooms get better than 30 miles per gallon, and new cars on average get slightly less gas mileage than the 2001 models, the E.P.A. reported in its annual survey of fuel economy. A13

Vacationers Drown in Capsizing
As many as 20 Americans on a diving vacation in Belize died Monday night when their chartered luxury boat capsized in 15-foot tidal surges whipped up by Hurricane Iris. Most of the victims were from the Richmond Dive Club in Virginia. A13

OBITUARIES D8

Norris Houghton
A theatrical producer and designer and founder of the Phoenix, one of the first and most successful of New York's not-for-profit Off Broadway theaters, he was 92. D8

NEW YORK/REGION D1-7

Mayor Holds Back $1 Billion To Help Close Budget Gap
Mayor Giuliani signed an executive order withholding $1 billion in city spending to create a reserve fund to help the budget recover from the terror attacks. The order also directs most agencies to curtail spending by 15 percent and impose a freeze on hiring. The mayor's staff says the city will end the year $1.6 billion short. D1

Democrats' Decision Near
Campaigning for the Democratic primary runoff tomorrow between Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer moves into its final hours today. D1

EDUCATION D9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

3 Share Nobel in Physics
Three scientists at American research institutions, Dr. Carl E. Wieman, Dr. Eric A. Cornell and Dr. Wolfgang Ketterle, received the prize for producing a bizarre state of matter in which atoms merge into a single wavelike entity that is much like a beam of laser light. A14

Inequality in Treatment
Elderly heart patients on Medicare who have no supplemental insurance are less likely to receive expensive prescription drugs that could extend their lives, a study found. A14

FASHION A16

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS S1-7

Baseball Playoffs Begin
In the National League, Arizona beat St. Louis, 1-0, and Atlanta beat Houston, 7-4. In the American League, Cleveland beat Seattle, 5-0. S1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

More Child-Resistant Caps
The Consumer Product Safety Commission is expected to enact a regulation this month requiring manufacturers to put child-resistant caps on an array of household products that contain hydrocarbons, including baby oils, suntan oils, spot removers and certain cleansers. C1

Investment Bank Cuts Back
Credit Suisse First Boston said it would eliminate 2,000 jobs, or about 7 percent of its workers worldwide. The investment bank reported a $120 million operating loss in the third quarter and said it expected the job reductions to help lower its costs $1 billion by the end of next year. C1

Microsoft Loses a Round
The Supreme Court rejected a request by Microsoft to consider throwing out the government's antitrust lawsuit against it because of the misconduct of a federal judge. The decision clears the legal landscape for a new judge to consider penalties. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-14

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: For Mark Green in the runoff; censorship in Pashto and Arabic; a bidding war for presidents.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E9
TV Listings E10
Public Lives D2
Weather A15

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MAYORS (86%); BUDGETS (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); INDICTMENTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); WAR CRIMES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPEALS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); THEATER (70%); AMNESTY (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%) KASHMIR (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ASIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); BELIZE (79%); CROATIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



361 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: New York Requests $54 Billion Package 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giulani announced an ambitious plan that asks the federal government to provide $54 billion worth of incentives, tax breaks and direct subsidies to rebuild the state's economy, redevelop Lower Manhattan and help businesses hit hard by the World Trade Center attack. 
 The plan includes tax-exempt bonds for developers who want to build office space in the devastated zone, grants to persuade employers to keep their offices in Manhattan and a wish list of transportation projects around the state to stimulate the economy and create jobs. 
 One of the pieces least likely to gain traction in Congress is a request to bail out the city and state governments with as much as $12 billion in additional aid to make up for lost revenues.
Mr. Pataki and Mr. Giuliani said that the extraordinary disaster in New York called for extraordinary measures. They urged President Bush and federal lawmakers to set aside differences and to recognize that the terrorist assault was an attack on America, not just on New York.
 Article, Page B1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); BAILOUTS (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (87%); TERRORISM (87%); HIJACKING (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); TRENDS (72%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



362 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FEDERAL AID; 
City and State Ask the U.S. For $54 Billion For Recovery

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced an ambitious plan yesterday, asking the federal government to provide $54 billion worth of incentives, tax breaks and direct subsidies to rebuild New York State's economy, redevelop Lower Manhattan and help businesses hit hard by the World Trade Center attack.
 The plan includes tax exempt bonds for developers who want to build office space in the devastated zone, grants to persuade employers to keep their offices in Manhattan and a wish list of transportation projects around the state to stimulate the economy and create jobs. 
 One of the pieces least likely to gain traction in Congress is the request to bail out the city and state governments with as much as $12 billion in additional aid to make up for state and city tax revenues lost because of the attacks. 
Both Mr. Pataki and Mr. Giuliani stressed that the extraordinary disaster suffered in New York called for extraordinary measures.
They urged President Bush and federal lawmakers to set aside differences and to recognize that the terrorist assault was an attack on America, not just New York, and was intended to cripple the nation's economy. Rebuilding the nation's financial capital, they said, was crucial to saving the country's economy.
"The economic recovery of New York must be a catalyst to help drive the economy of the country," the governor said. "To do that we need the support of Washington."
Representatives and senators from New York, however, said it would be hard to persuade their colleagues in Congress, especially Republican leaders who tried to block the $17.5 billion granted to New York as a preliminary emergency package last month, to approve many of the measures the governor and the mayor have requested. The size of the package alone had some lawmakers worried; some officials had tried earlier to rein in the request to make it more palatable to the Republican House.
Mr. Giuliani, who announced a hiring freeze and $1 billion in cuts in his budget address yesterday, acknowledged that he and Governor Pataki risked losing credibility if they asked for too much. 
"The federal aid that we ask for should be honestly connected to the World Trade Center," the mayor said. "If we lose that principle in the debate then we're going to lose."
Even before the governor and mayor released the detailed plan, Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the second-ranking Senate Republican, expressed skepticism about increasing aid.
Other big states around the country are also watching their economies and tax revenues sink, and Congress is worried about paying for the war effort and antiterrorist measures.
"This is going to be an extremely difficult request," said Representative John E. Sweeney, an upstate Republican close to the governor. "We are going to be facing whole slews of members from all parts of the country saying, 'Why just New York? Why just the Northeast?' "
Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, said: "This is a very heavy lift, but working with the governor, the mayor and the Congressional delegation, we will do everything humanly possible to get as much of this as we can."
Some in the New York delegation said that, given the regional resistance to bailing out New York, the aid package outlined by the governor and the mayor yesterday had little chance of success unless President Bush lobbied for it. 
A White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said the Bush administration would study the plan. "The White House will continue to work with New York on funding needs," he said, "and we will help New York obtain funding as needs arise."
The $17.5 billion already appropriated was to pay for hauling away debris, recovering victims and rebuilding public infrastructure. Yesterday, Mr. Pataki estimated the actual cost for those tasks would be closer to $34 billion.
The governor also asked Congress and the White House to approve $20 billion to stimulate the state economy.
About $2 billion would go for grants, tax exempt bonds and tax breaks to entice developers to build in Lower Manhattan and to persuade companies to keep their workforces in the state. The plan would set up a Liberty Zone in Lower Manhattan where these incentives would be available.
For workers who were displaced by the disaster, the governor is asking for another $3 billion in federal aid to defray the costs of health coverage, unemployment insurance and worker's compensation. 
Another element that many said was likely to receive a cool reception was a $3 billion plan for transportation projects around the state, many of them initiatives in a transportation bond act last year. "Nobody can understand why this thing would include a transportation wish list of unrelated projects," one federal official said. 
In the city, such aid could go, however, for a new PATH terminal in Lower Manhattan, finishing the engineering work for a future Second Avenue subway and completing the design of a link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal.
But the plan also includes a high-speed rail link between Schenectady and New York City, bridge repairs upstate and modernizing crossings along the Canadian border.
The city and state are also asking Washington to give them as much as $12 billion in additional federal aid to make up for the tax revenue the state and city are likely to lose over the next 18 months. 
The Pataki administration estimates the state could lose $1 billion to $3 billion in the fiscal year ending April 1, and $2 billion to $6 billion in the next year, depending on how the economy fares.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that the city would lose at least $1 billion in tax revenues between now and the end of the city's fiscal year on July 1. His administration has said an additional $2.5 billion might be lost in the following year.
Carole Stone, the state budget director, said the state would prefer that the federal government simply give an unrestricted grant to make up for the lost revenues. But she said the state also might ask Congress to change Medicaid and welfare formulas to funnel more money to New York.
Federal disaster aid has never before been used to help fill gaps in state and city budgets and some members of Congress are concerned about setting such a precedent, lawmakers said.
Mr. Giuliani, in his budget address, pointed out that every year, the city sends $9 billion more to Washington in tax collections than it receives in aid and that cutting federal taxes would be the best way to spur the economy. "Let's think like capitalists, not like communists," he said.
For his part, Mr. Pataki said the state's future hinges in large part on how much aid it can obtain from Washington. Surrounded by some of the city's most powerful business and labor leaders yesterday, he declared that everyone in the country understood that the terrorists were not singling out one state or city.
"It was really an attack upon America that took place in New York," he said. "And that's why we have no qualms about asking America to help with our economic recovery efforts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani asked the federal government yesterday for financial help to rebuild New York. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B13) Chart: "The Price Tag"The cost estimate for the Sept. 11 attack is almost $54 billion. In millions Basic Rescue, Recovery and RebuildingImmediate response: $14,739Redevelopment of Lower Manhattan: 18,839 Economic Recovery and RevitalizationWorld Trade Center recovery zone: $2,000Supporting families and dislocated workers: 3,000Aid to replace lost tax revenue: 12,000Transportation projects: 3,000 Security (cost to date): $100 Note: Cost estimates are preliminary and do not include possible insurance offsets.(Source: New York State Budget Division)(pg. B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TRENDS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); APPROVALS (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); NICKLES, DON (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



363 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
Bailout for Airlines Showed the Weight Of a Mighty Lobby

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE and MICHAEL MOSS 

 BODY:
Just one day after terrorists hijacked and crashed four commercial jets, lobbyists for the airline industry were already at work, laying the groundwork for a multibillion-dollar plan to rescue the industry.
 With the airlines grounded and passengers fearful of flying, platoons of well-connected and highly experienced lobbyists -- among them Linda Hall Daschle, wife of the Senate majority leader -- began sorting through their options, perhaps a ticket tax, perhaps something else. But, as Mrs. Daschle, an American Airlines lobbyist, explained, the group quickly settled on the simplest plan: a cash payment and loan guarantees. 
 That was the start of a campaign to convince Congress that the industry needed government support to survive. The speed with which Congress agreed to $15 billion in aid and loan guarantees just 11 days after the terrorist attack is not just a testament to the importance of air travel to the nation's economy. It is also an example of the power of the airline lobby, and the skill with which it marshaled its resources. 
"It was masterful," said Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, an Illinois Republican who cast the lone vote in the Senate against the airline rescue package. "The airline industry made a full-court press to convince Congress that giving them billions in taxpayer cash was the only way to save the republic."
For an industry that is hardly the most popular in Congress -- or with the flying public -- it often manages to get what it wants in Washington. In what one federal regulator called "a wonderful piece of special pleading," the airline lobby in the aftermath of the 1988 Pan Am 103 bombing succeeded in weakening measures to toughen airport security.
More recently, the airlines helped head off a passengers' bill of rights. And this spring, the airlines scored big when President Bush invoked rarely used powers to block a threatened strike by airline employees. 
This time, a mere 24 hours after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, with the nation still shocked and grieving, the airlines moved quickly on the ground, if not in the air. By the evening of Sept. 12, the carriers had joined in a unified effort to persuade Congress they needed federal aid.
The airlines had plenty of resources to draw on: 27 in-house lobbyists, augmented by lobbyists from 42 Washington firms. The lineup included former White House aides and transportation secretaries, retired members of the House and Senate, and a former Republican National Committee chairman, Haley Barbour. The airlines also had at their disposal a Continental Airlines lobbyist, Rebecca Cox, who is a former Reagan administration official and the wife of Representative Christopher Cox, a California Republican.
And in the front lines were the airlines' own chief executives, well known in the halls of Congress, and corporate board members -- many of whom were Bush campaign contributors. Among them were Donald J. Carty, the chief executive of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, and Gordon Bethune, chief executive of Continental, both of whom are based in Texas and have known Mr. Bush well for years, and Leo F. Mullin, chief executive of Delta Air Lines. 
"It was the most high-level surgical strike that I have ever seen," said Jeff Munk, a partner at the Washington law firm of Hogan & Hartson and a lobbyist for General Electric, which makes jet engines and leases aircraft. "And the people who made it happen were the C.E.O.'s."
The airlines had some strong arguments to make. The government had grounded their planes for security reasons, hurting the nation's fragile economy, while costing the airlines millions of dollars in lost revenues. Besides, in practically every district, industries related to the airlines -- travel and tourism -- were suffering, too, making it easier for the airline lobbyists to make their case.
In Congress, "everybody was stunned by what happened," Mrs. Daschle said. "Everybody wanted to help." Mrs. Daschle, who advised both American and Northwest Airlines, said she was careful not to lobby her husband or his Senate colleagues. But House members said she held face-to-face meetings with House Democrats. 
Not everyone approved of the industry's aggressive tactics in seeking more money than it lost in the three-day shutdown while excluding its own employees from the bailout. 
"The big dog got the bone," said Representative George Miller, a California Democrat. "After Sept. 11, the mood was one of shared sacrifice. People had lost their jobs and their lives. And the first thing that happened was the airline industry came in while everyone else is waiting to see if they can make their mortgage payments."
To get what they wanted quickly, the airlines concentrated their efforts on a few crucial Congressional leaders, including the House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, and top administration officials, including the transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, and Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff. 
"All the lobbying was focused on a handful of people at the top," said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat. "Even the members of the Transportation Committee didn't know what was going on."
As a result, on the night of Sept. 14, at a time when House members had been told to go home for the day, a two-page bill that would have authorized Congress to give the industry $12.5 billion almost passed by unanimous consent in a nearly empty House chamber around midnight. 
Only through the lone objection of Mr. Doggett, who happened to be on the floor that night, was the measure stopped.
For that, Mr. Doggett faced the wrath of an airline lobby willing to play tough and get personal. Continental Airlines, based in his home state, began an automated telephone campaign with Mr. Doggett as its target after Mr. Bethune, Continental's chief executive, said Mr. Doggett was to blame for any layoffs.
Pressure on Congress to pass a rescue package increased, meanwhile, as Continental and other airlines began to furlough tens of thousands of employees. 
Any industry that can put that many people on the street "is going to get attention of people at the highest levels," said one staff member of the House Aviation Subcommittee. "Their tactic was to bring all their top guys to meet with top people in government and to say the sky is falling."
To bolster their case, board members of the six major airlines began calling leading members of Congress and the administration. A Continental director and Houston pastor, Kirbyjon Caldwell, who phoned three senators on Sept. 19, said the airline bailout was needed to help convert "a moment of fear to a moment of faith." An American Airlines director, John W. Bachmann, a Missouri financier, called two members of his state's delegation -- Mr. Gephardt and Representative Roy Blunt, the Republican who helped write the bill -- to say the airlines' losses were "breathtaking."
Many of these board members were also big campaign contributors. American's board members alone gave $148,200 to Republicans in the last presidential election, while the boards of four airlines -- Delta, United Airlines, Continental and American -- gave a total of $712,569 in soft-money donations to both parties. And, American gave another $100,000 to the Bush inauguration. 
A United board member, Richard McCormick, gave Republicans $98,000, A Continental board member, Richard W. Pogue, gave Republicans $40,000 and David Bonderman, also on the Continental board, gave $110,000 to the Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington research group.
The airlines also benefited from the push for the bailout bill provided by airline executives, like Mr. Carty of American and Mr. Mullin of Delta, who routinely work the halls of Congress themselves and made personal visits throughout Washington. One reason they were well received: since 1998, the industry over all has given $7.4 million to Republican candidates and committees, and $4.6 million to Democrats.
In what some lobbyists called a master stroke, the airline industry was able to double the amount of direct aid it had initially sought by agreeing to forgo loan guarantees, which they ultimately got anyhow.
Meanwhile, even in a Democratic-controlled Senate, the pleas of organized labor to protect airline employees were pretty much ignored. "We are upset that the crisis with the airline workers was not addressed along with the crisis with the airlines," said William Samuel, a lobbyist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Congressional leaders met with airline executives last month after the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and on the Pentagon. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); TERRORISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HIJACKING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); STRIKES (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSUMER PROTECTION; MISSING PERSONS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (50%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); DASCHLE, LINDA HALL; WAYNE, LESLIE; MOSS, MICHAEL; FITZGERALD, PETER G (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CARD, ANDREW H JR; MILLER, GEORGE (REPR); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); MINETA, NORMAN Y (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



364 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION; 
Ashcroft Is Centralizing Control Over the Prosecution and Prevention of Terrorism

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON with BENJAMIN WEISER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Attorney General John Ashcroft set up a "9/11 Task Force" within the Justice Department today to operate as the agency's central command structure for prosecuting terror cases and helping to prevent further acts of violence against the United States, a senior department official said.
 Mr. Ashcroft's decision is a significant shift for the Justice Department, reflecting his increasingly aggressive managerial approach since the attacks and the consolidation of his control over federal law enforcement's antiterrorism efforts. 
 The decision is, in effect, a rebuff of Mary Jo White, the United States attorney in New York who operated during the Clinton administration as the country's pre-eminent prosecutor of terror cases and one of the government's most prominent leaders on antiterrorist efforts. 
Under the new organization, Ms. White's office would remain involved in prosecution decisions and efforts to prevent terror attacks, but overall decision-making would rest firmly with Mr. Ashcroft in Washington.
Previously, attorneys general have granted prosecutors in the 92 United States attorneys' offices wide discretion in handling criminal cases, a latitude that the new structure ends where terrorism is concerned.
With the criminal investigation into the attacks proceeding, President Bush is expected to visit the F.B.I. headquarters on Wednesday. Officials said he might announce a new list of terror suspects who remain at large.
Today, the senior law enforcement official said that Mr. Ashcroft had set up "a structured prosecution team" to handle cases involving the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
It will be made up of government lawyers from United States attorney's offices in New York and Virginia, as well as prosecutors from the Justice Department's violent crime and terrorism unit.
The new prosecution team will be in charge of gathering leads, information and evidence from around the world to centralize the effort to head off future terror attacks.
The team will also be responsible for any prosecutions that would result from the investigation, including the place and timing of any indictments.
Mr. Ashcroft advised his senior aides of his decision at a meeting today. Among them were Larry Thompson, deputy attorney general, and Michael Chertoff, the department's chief criminal prosecutor. Also at the meeting were Ms. White and Paul McNulty, the United States attorney in eastern Virginia, whose jurisdiction includes the Pentagon.
At issue is more than a fight for prestige. Some prosecutors have said that the effort should be centered in New York, because it suffered thousands of deaths along with untold economic devastation.
It is still uncertain if any major indictments or prosecutions will result from the investigation. The 19 known hijackers are dead and a senior law enforcement official said today that, thus far, no one had been identified in the United States as a witting accomplice. Moreover, the official said, investigators are still trying to determine the role of suspected conspirators overseas.
In part, today's decision reflects the changing fortunes of Ms. White, who was appointed in 1993 by former President Bill Clinton shortly after the first World Trade Center attack. Mr. Ashcroft has kept her in her post, but he has not given her the same latitude that she had under Janet Reno, the attorney general during the Clinton administration.
Ms. White, who has tried to retain her independent role in terrorism issues, made two core arguments for keeping control over future criminal indictments of possible defendants tied to Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's terror network, one official said.
First, thousands of victims were killed in Lower Manhattan, which is within Ms. White's legal jurisdiction, the Southern District of New York.
Also, Ms. White's office has a long track record on terror cases. Her prosecutors have already obtained 10 criminal indictments of Mr. bin Laden and his followers, starting with one for terrorism conspiracy in June 1998, two months before the bombings of the American embassies in East Africa.
Ms. White's spokesman, Marvin Smilon, had no comment last night.
But one official said that Ms. White's office delivered a substantial briefing package to the attorney general's office, arguing to preserve New York's legal jurisdiction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); TERRORISM (94%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); MISSING PERSONS (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) ;JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) JOHNSTON, DAVID; WEISER, BENJAMIN; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN); WHITE, MARY JO (US ATTY) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



365 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Mayor's News Conference 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's news conference after his address on modifications to the city budget, as recorded by The New York Times.

Q. Mr. Mayor, you mentioned that you didn't want the city to be going with a tin cup . . . to Washington. . . .

MR. GIULIANI -- We should be given equity. The reality is we should go to Washington with our heads held very high. We're the biggest contributor to the American economy, even with the attack on the World Trade Center. This very day as I speak to you, New York City is the biggest single contributor to the American economy. Despite the fact that we were attacked, we lost incredible, incalculable numbers of lives and we had a tremendous blow delivered to our economy, we're the single biggest contributor to the American economy. All throughout this period we're contributing more to the American economy than we get back. So right now the way we should frame this is we should be asking for, during this period of time, somewhat more equity. Just loosen up and let us keep a little more of our money. Reduce taxes, readjust some of the formulas a little bit so you're a little fairer to New York. If you do that we're going to be able to work our way through this and then we'll be able to continue to contribute to the American economy in a very, very major way. . . .

Q. Mayor, some of your advisers and also some of the city's fiscal monitors have raised concern that some of the federal aid coming in might have strings attached. . . .

MR. GIULIANI -- I don't know that, that's a little bit too abstract. The federal aid that we ask for should be honestly connected to the World Trade Center. If we lose that principle in the debate than we're going to lose. If we keep it, we're going to win. We have to go to the Congress and to the president and say, we honestly need this money and we have to be able to prove it, in order to recover from the World Trade Center attack, in order to rebuild those businesses, in order to rebuild that community and then the things that are directly connected to it within our economy. If we try to expand that too much, then I think we will, over a period of time, lose the incredible unanimous support that we presently have. So i think we have to have some discipline about it. And one of the reasons why I took the action that I took today is, I want to say to everyone in the state and in the federal government, that we're willing to do our part to solve this problem. . . .

Q. Mayor you made allusions to a political ideology. Are you concerned at all about a new administration after you following through on these budget suggestions?

MR. GIULIANI -- . . . Am I concerned about a new administration following through on these budget plans? Maybe the reason I did that is because I'm concerned about that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (75%); TERRORISM (70%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



366 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AN OVERVIEW: OCT. 9, 2001; 
A Riskier Phase, a Widening Focus and Stress and Strain All Around

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
On the third day of American airstrikes against Afghanistan, the Pentagon already had its eye on the next phase of the operation, and it seemed likely to be riskier than anything carried out thus far.
 Indeed, the hazards until now have been minimal for American forces, who were described by officials in Washington as having essentially taken control of the Afghan skies while knocking out some of the larger and more sophisticated training camps of Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's terrorist network. One camp near Jalalabad, in eastern Afghanistan, was said by intelligence officials to have been a site for testing chemical and biological weapons. 

THE NEXT STEPS -- The sense from the Pentagon was that United States bombers and fighter planes were running out of significant military targets. If so, that cleared the way for the next stage, which officials said would involve helicopter gunships flying low to find and attack forces allied with Al Qaeda. Those helicopters come equipped with various defensive measures. Inevitably, though, they run a much greater risk of ground fire than the high-altitude bombers have faced.
When would the new phase begin? Officials were not saying. From their remarks, however, it seemed that an invasion by American ground troops was not in the planning, for now anyway.

BEYOND AFGHANISTAN -- It did appear that Washington had more than Afghanistan's Taliban government in its sights. Southeast Asia could be next. Officials said that terrorists with links to Al Qaeda, based in the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia, were among the likely targets of future American actions, both overt and covert. On that score, too, no timetable was offered. But the officials repeated that the worldwide campaign against terrorism could go on for years.
Although officials pronounced themselves pleased with the progress of the military campaign, strains in the American-led coalition were evident. Tensions ran especially high in Pakistan, where President Pervez Musharraf tried to keep pro-Taliban protests from spinning out of control. Pakistani policemen killed at least five people, including a 13-year-old boy, during anti-American protests in Kuchlak, a town near the Afghan border. Also, Pakistani troops fought a gun battle with Taliban soldiers who had crossed into Pakistan, apparently to hide from the American bombing. Both episodes underlined the problems facing General Musharraf, who has been an unenthusiastic ally of the United States in the anti-Taliban campaign and who must worry about growing instability in his country of 140 million people.

IN CONGRESS -- Strains were also apparent in Washington, where leading members of Congress from both parties chafed at President Bush's order limiting classified military and intelligence information to eight senior lawmakers. Mr. Bush grew angry after some sensitive material from congressional briefings made their way into news media reports. "When we have troops at risk" that is unacceptable, the president said. Lawmakers did not disagree on the need for everyone to be more careful. But they must have access to restricted information, they insisted, if they are to do their jobs right.

NEW YORK -- One other place with stress was New York City, the chief victim of the Sept. 11 attacks. The city's finances had been hit so hard and so fast that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced a hiring freeze and a cut of $1 billion in planned municipal spending.
Beyond that, Mr. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki asked the federal government for $54 billion in incentives, tax breaks and subsidies to rebuild the battered local economy, redevelop lower Manhattan and help devastated businesses get back on their feet.
It was a highly ambitious proposal, and some officials acknowledged that parts of it amounted to a wish list. New York, they knew, is still not universally loved in Washington. But they argued that the city in effect took the terrorist hit for America, and that reviving the country's financial capital was in everyone's interest.
 CLYDE HABERMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); HIJACKING (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (74%); HELICOPTERS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%) ;HABERMAN, CLYDE; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MALAYSIA; PHILIPPINES; INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



367 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GLOBAL LINKS; 
OTHER FRONTS SEEN

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Terrorists tied to Osama bin Laden's network and based in the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia are among the likely targets of future covert and overt American actions, United States officials said today.
 The officials gave no timetable; they said the campaign against the groups linked to Mr. bin Laden and his group, Al Qaeda, is global and may last for years. But they said that the East Asian groups have expanded their operations in recent years, exchanging money, personnel, materiel and experience with the bin Laden organization and its allies, and that they pose a clear and present danger to American institutions overseas. 
 "There has been a concerted effort by bin Laden and his people to expand their activities in East Asia, not only in the Philippines but in Malaysia and Indonesia," a United States official said. "The Philippines have become a major operational hub, and it's a serious concern. People linked to bin Laden are not only in Manila but elsewhere in the Philippines." 
The groups have thrived in the political and economic instability in the Philippines, a predominantly Roman Catholic country, and in Indonesia, which is predominantly Muslim; street protests against the airstrikes on Afghanistan took place today outside the American embassies in both countries. In recent years, the fundamentalist groups have gained adherents in the name of a holy war against American institutions and influence, officials said. 
The United States ambassador to the United Nations, John D. Negroponte, told the Security Council on Monday that the United States, acting in self-defense after the Sept. 11 attacks, may take "further actions with respect to other organizations and other states." 
Mr. Negroponte, an American ambassador to the Philippines in the 1990's, cited no groups or states by name. But administration officials have said repeatedly that Mr. Bin Laden has adherents and allies all over the world, and that the war against them will range far beyond Afghanistan. East Asia, and particularly the Philippines, officials said, is an area where terrorists who have struck the United States before are known to have planned their attacks. 
Militant Islamic groups in East Asia -- chief among them, the Abu Sayyaf group, based in the Philippines -- are high on the list of American counter-terrorism targets to come, officials said today.
Hundreds of Abu Sayyaf fighters are battling the Philippine army on Basilan, an island in the south. The group has taken two American hostages: Martin and Gracia Burnham, missionaries from Wichita, Kan.
The Burnhams were celebrating their 18th wedding anniversary in May, when they and a third American, Guillermo Sobero of Corona, Calif., were kidnapped from a resort on Palawan, a large western island of the Philippine archipelago. Mr. Sobero may be dead, officials said.
The Abu Sayyaf group, which is on the official United States list of terrorist organizations, has obtained millions of dollars in ransom from kidnapping tourists, missionaries and resort workers. Libyan representatives played a role in the release of some hostages for ransom, State Department officials said.
The group has used ransom money to buy weapons and speedboats, to pay recruits and to bribe Philippine soldiers, American officials suspect.
Members of Abu Sayyaf, which says it is fighting for a separate Islamic nation, have links to the bin Laden organization, officials said. 
The leader of the group is known as Abdujarak Abubakar Janjalani. He is a Filipino Muslim who has said he fought alongside the Afghan rebels battling the Soviet invaders of Afghanistan during the 1980's.
Al Qaeda's connections in the Philippines include Islamic schools and charities through which millions of dollars have flowed to support the group and its allies across South and East Asia, officials said. 
They include the International Islamic Relief Organization office and Al Makdum university in Zamboanga, a city on the island of Mindanao, just north of Basilan island. Mr. bin Laden's brother-in-law, Mohammed Jalal Khalifa, was an administrator at both institutions. Neither is operating any longer, and Mr. Khalifa was arrested by the Saudi government after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Also since the attacks, Philippine intelligence officers have arrested two suspected Abu Sayyaf commanders and several men they described as foreigners carrying bombs. Malaysia has charged the son of a leading opposition politician with plotting to overthrow the government. Indonesia has imprisoned two Malaysians in connection with a series of bombings.
In Indonesia, armed Islamic fundamentalist groups have received money, men and arms from the bin Laden group and its allies, officials said. One group, Laskar Jihad, they said, has been reinforced by Taliban guerrillas. Another, the Islamic Defenders Front, is threatening violence against American officials and organizations.
Some members of Al Qaeda have transited through the international airport at Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia, officials said. One of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Khalid Al-Midhar, was videotaped at a terrorist meeting in Kuala Lumpur in January 2000. 
President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said recently that "traces of relationship" exist between the Abu Sayyaf guerrillas and the Sept. 11 attack plotters. She has offered the United States airspace and the use of two large former United States military installations, the Clark Air Base, and the Subic Bay naval base, for transit and staging operations. 
The offer was secured in a meeting at Subic Bay two weeks ago between Adm. Thomas Fargo, commander of the Pacific Fleet, and Rolio Golez, the Philippine national security adviser, both 1970 graduates of the United States Naval Academy.
President Bush is scheduled to discuss the counter-terrorism campaign with the presidents of the Philippines and Indonesia and the prime minister of Malaysia in Shanghai on Oct. 19 at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting.
Terrorists aiming to attack the United States have been based in the Philippines for years. 
Ramzi Yousef, a convicted ringleader in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, plotted in Manila to blow up 11 jumbo jets headed for the United States. He was arrested in Pakistan at a rooming house financed by Mr. bin Laden. His roommate in Manila, Abdul Hakim Murad, had a commercial pilot license and plotted to crash a jet into the Central Intelligence Agency headquarters in Virginia. 
And Mohammed Saddiq Odeh, convicted in the 1998 bombing of the United States Embassy in Nairobi, was a student in the Philippines when he first came to the bin Laden organization.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the possibility of action by the United States against terrorist groups in the Philippines and Indonesia misidentified the leader of Abu Sayyaf, an organization tied to Osama bin Laden that operates from the Philippines. The leader was believed to be Khaddafi Janjalani. (Abdujarak Abubakar Janjalani was his brother, who founded and headed the group but was reportedly killed in a firefight in the Philippines in 1998.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philippine troops secured an area where they had overrun an Abu Sayyaf hideout on Basilan island this week. Muslim guerrillas fighting there are said to have links to Osama bin Laden's organization, Al Qaeda. (Associated Press)(pg. B5) Chart/Map"AT A GLANCE: A Terror Group In the Philippines"The Bush administration has called the Abu Sayyaf Group a foreign terrorist organization. Operating primarily in the southern Philippines, the group is fighting on Basilan and is holding two American hostages. According to estimates by Philippine intelligence, the group has about 1,100 men with over 350 firearms. (Source: Jane's) Maps highlight other cities where the Abu Sayyaf Group operates and Abu Sayyaf Group's main operating area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); RELIGION (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); HIJACKING (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); SELF DEFENSE (64%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ISLAM; HOSTAGES; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: ABU SAYYAF GROUP (94%); AL-QAEDA (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) ;UNITED NATIONS; ABU SAYYAF (REBEL GROUP); INTERNATIONAL ISLAMIC RELIEF ORGANIZATION; AL MAKDUM UNIVERSITY (PHILIPPINES); AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (86%) WEINER, TIM; NEGROPONTE, JOHN D (AMB); KHALIFA, MOHAMMED JALAL; JANJALANI, ABDUJARAK ABUBAKAR; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; SOBERO, GUILLERMO; BURNHAM, GRACIA; BURNHAM, MARTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PHILIPPINES (98%); MALAYSIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) PHILIPPINES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MALAYSIA; INDONESIA; BASILAN (PHILIPPINES); MINDANAO (PHILIPPINES); SAUDI ARABIA; AFGHANISTAN; 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001 



368 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1959 words

HEADLINE: Bird's-Eye Views, Made to Order 

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
AMONG the indelible images from the terrorist attacks last month were commercial satellite photographs showing smoke and dust of volcanic proportions stretching for miles from the ruins of the World Trade Center. 
 But satellites were capable of taking far more detailed photographs, with features as small as a burning vehicle or a pile of rubble that might keep rescue crews from passing. No wonder phone calls from disaster-recovery teams and emergency services started pouring into Space Imaging, the owner of the Ikonos satellite, which provides the sharpest available images. 
 By the next morning, when Ikonos was in position to take new pictures of the trade center and the Pentagon from 400 miles above, Space Imaging had taken the unusual step of making images of the disaster sites available free on its Web site, and some competitors had done likewise. "We had so many emergency groups calling that we decided to just put it out there so they could use it as quickly as possible," said John Copple, chief executive at Space Imaging, based in the Denver suburb of Thornton, Colo. 
As it turned out, officials planning the logistics of the disaster response were just a sliver of the audience. By the end of the week, more than 70,000 visits a day were being logged at Space Imaging's Web site (www.spaceimaging.com), according to Jupiter Media Metrix, which tracks the popularity of Internet sites. 
For many of the visitors, it was probably the first glimpse of the abilities of a fledgling industry with diverse clients and missions. Now that the focus has shifted to the fighting and the flight of refugees in Afghanistan, the satellites' view of the combat zone is in demand from both military clients and news organizations. 
Commercial satellite photography began gaining momentum in 1994, when the federal government started allowing companies to make and sell images precise enough to show features just a few feet in diameter on the ground. People in the industry say that its worldwide revenues range from a few hundred million dollars to as much as $2 billion -- depending partly on how much consulting, data analysis and other related work is included in the estimate -- but that none of the satellite owners are profitable yet. Nearly all the work is done by small, privately held companies that do not report revenue. 
With such photography now used to help fishing fleets find tuna, power companies plan the routes of gas lines, mining companies search for minerals and farmers manage crops, the benefits of the change in federal policy seem obvious in retrospect. But it came only after a long and contentious debate in Washington in which the Defense Department and many in Congress were leery of making such detailed images easily available to potential enemies. 
Those in favor of commercialization argued that foreign companies would be offering such products whether American companies were allowed to compete or not. They contended that opening up the commercial photography sector would help preserve production and engineering expertise when military spending was declining. 
Finally, in a point still debated, proponents argued that commercial photography would contribute to world peace by making everything from natural disasters to the effects of local wars visible to all.
The industry's biggest customer is the United States government, which uses the commercial companies' services for activities like map-making, monitoring beach erosion or air pollution and reporting on crops. The biggest government demand comes from the military and intelligence agencies, which rely heavily on the industry to supplement data from satellites owned by the United States and other governments. 
The commercial satellites cannot gather data as precise as what the newest government satellites glean about the dimensions, position and physical nature of objects in a photograph. The government does not provide details about its satellites' abilities, but military officials offered this comparison: while commercial satellites can distinguish between different crops planted in adjacent fields, the latest military satellites can recognize different varieties of the same crop. 
Under ideal conditions, government satellites can even identify objects as small as four or five inches in diameter. That compares with the sharpest Ikonos images, provided to customers at a resolution of one meter (39 inches) -- meaning an object one meter square can be made out. But even though the capacities of government satellites are greater, they are spread thin. 
The Pentagon's frequent use of commercial satellites arises from both economy and efficiency. Extraordinary resolution is not always needed, and "it costs much less to process the commercial images," said William E. Burrows, author of the new book "By Any Means Necessary: America's Secret Air War in the Cold War" (Farrar Straus & Giroux). 
Moreover, commercial satellites are often in orbits that make them the quickest source for an important image. "Defense satellites are optimized for coverage of high-risk areas, but they don't always cover every region where problems come up," said Gilbert D. Rye, president and chief executive of the Orbital Imaging Corporation, another satellite photography company. 
Commercial companies sometimes pick up what they call "pretty picture" orders, like a photo of a client's ranch or last year's graduation ceremony at the United States Air Force Academy, where cadets arranged themselves to spell AFA 2000 as Ikonos passed overhead. But with a minimum charge for new orders running close to $1,800 a photo, with a 60-day wait, no one is basing a business on such demand. 
The bulk of the business requires careful melding of the photographic image with other data, starting with the satellite's exact location at the instant a picture is taken. In addition to images showing where masses of phytoplankton can be found, for example, Orbital Imaging sells a software package that allows clients to calculate the plankton's movements based on weather and ocean conditions. Tuna fishermen know that fish are likely to be near the plankton, and getting to the fish faster can add as much as $1 million a year to a boat's revenue. 
Many companies offer not just visible-light photographs but also images relying on radar or parts of the electromagnetic spectrum invisible to the human eye, like infrared light. Radar can pass through foliage and clouds and be used for tasks like measuring the thickness of ice or the height of waves. Infrared images are ideal for spotting deposits of copper or iron and monitoring air pollution. 
Mr. Copple, chief executive of Space Imaging, said that its focus was increasingly on selling an analysis based on the images. "We might sell a report based on comparing two images rather than the images themselves in some cases," he said. 
Analysts say the industry might best be viewed as a specialized segment of aerial photography, pioneered by balloonists in the 19th century. Such photography took a leap forward when the invention of airplanes gave practitioners more control of their working conditions. It took the arrival of the space age, though, to open the door to images covering continental swaths of territory or areas where governments were likely to shoot down any foreign aircraft.
Photography taken from aircraft is still more precise than anything offered by the satellite companies. But the airplane-based services lack the global reach of the satellite operators, who can photograph almost any location on the globe every day and pass almost directly over most sites every third or fourth day. In addition, commercial satellite photography is digital, which allows for rapid delivery of the results and relatively easy integration with many other data sources. Most aircraft still rely on film. 
Until the 1980's, space was almost entirely off limits to commercial enterprises outside the telecommunications industry. That grip began to loosen in 1982, when a European consortium led by France's national space agency created Spot Image to sell photos for commercial use that were detailed enough to show objects as small as 36 feet in diameter. Russia, Israel, India and Canada have since entered the market. 
The domestic commercial companies operate under a number of security restrictions. Like any other business, they are forbidden from dealing with customers in countries like North Korea and Cuba. Wholesale customers, the kind that want to buy what John Pike, director of Global Security.org, a research group based in Alexandria, Va., called a "militarily significant" number of images over time, require a separate license. 
And the companies' operating licenses allow the government to put any area off limits in the interests of national security. That policy has not been invoked, Mr. Pike said, because no new customers could obtain images from the companies quickly enough to compromise the military operations in Central Asia.
"If you ordered an image of Afghanistan from Space Imaging today, it would cost a minimum of $6,000 and you couldn't get it before Thanksgiving," because the government and other customers would have priority, Mr. Pike said. "It would take 10 days just to get an archival image."
For all the industry's rapid development, though, it is not an easy business. Satellites from several companies have been destroyed in launching attempts over the last two years or failed once they were in orbit. In addition, the satellites that are in orbit are not generating the anticipated profits. The government's Landsat satellites, whose images are sold at the cost of production, grab a lot of the business in markets like vegetation analysis where many customers are content with less precise but more economical data. Similarly, many users of map data are content to work with old paper maps rather than pay for satellite images. 
"The sensitivity to price has surprised the companies," said Christopher Roberts, chief executive of PixSell, a consulting company that specializes in analyzing satellite and aerial images. "The industry is desperately searching for a killer application."
The industry's visibility in the last month, however, may help stimulate business as potential customers realize what the satellites can do. "Sept. 11 may speed up the demand for mapping," Mr. Copple said. "Mapping underlies everything."

Site-Seeing: Satellite Photos
Several companies and agencies involved in satellite photography offer sample images or even catalogs of images for online purchases.

SPACE IMAGING: www.spaceimaging
.com -- An "image of the week" (currently Reagan National Airport in Washington) can be downloaded as wallpaper. An image gallery includes pictures of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon before and after the Sept. 11 attacks.

ORBITAL IMAGING: www.orbimage
.com -- The site includes an image gallery and a featured image, currently the Arabian Peninsula.

SPOT IMAGE: www.spotimage.com/spot
-us.htm -- Registered users can search a catalog of more than eight million images for purchase.

DIGITALGLOBE: www.digitalglobe
.com -- An online tour shows the variety of purposes, from mapping to forestry to emergency monitoring, for which images can be used.

TERRASERVER: www.spin-2.com
Images for use in real estate, government, construction or engineering.

SOVINFORMSPUTNIK: www-com
.sovinformsputnik.ru -- Samples of a Russian company's work include views of Washington and the World Trade Center site.

LANDSAT 7: landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov -- A NASA site's overview of images sent by the Landsat 7 satellite.

UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY: edcwww.cr.usgs.gov/earthshots/slow
/tableofcontents -- Demonstrates the use of images in environmental and agricultural monitoring.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PLOTTING PINES -- With near-infrared sensors, the Ikonos satellite can detect plant conditions and species. On Copper Mountain, Colo., red represents trees, most likely pine; the brown is grass.; CORAL CLOSE-UP -- The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration used Ikonos photos to monitor coral reefs like Buck Island in the Virgin Islands, off St. Croix.; URBAN WINDOW -- High-resolution images like this one of Beirut, Lebanon, are typically used in mapping. They can capture objects as small as one meter square, like cars or trees, but not individual people. (Photographs by Space Imaging; Illustration by Frank O'Connell/The New York Times)(pg. G1); A FRESH PERSPECTIVE -- Captured by Space Imaging's Ikonos satellite, from left: a view of Manhattan from Midtown to Central Park; Venice and its canals; Fishlake National Forest in Utah, with the dark areas reflecting destruction from a fire; and San Diego, with details useful to real estate planners. (Photographs from Space Imaging)(pg. G7) Drawing (The New York Times; Illustration by Frank O'Connell)(pg. G7) Chart: "Covering the Earth"For satellite imaging companies, quality and flexibility are vital in serving clients with varied needs. With its Ikonos satellite, Space Imaging can produce images of any area of the Earth every three days at top-grade resolution, and daily at lower resolutions. IMAGING AREAThe satellite can rotate up to 51 degrees to direct its camera at a target. It can make its highest-resolution photos -- showing details one meter square -- of any location in a 435-mile-wide swath below it. Images with a resolution of one and a half meters can be made of sites in an area 900 miles across, and with two-meter resolution at greater distances. On an orbit taking it over central Washington and Oregon, the satellite could produce top-quality photos of any place from Portland to Boise. COMING INTO RANGEAs the Earth rotates beneath the Ikonos satellite's north-south orbit, every point on the planet eventually comes into view. The orbit is at a slight angle to the Equator so that Ikonos consistently appears over a point on the daylight side around 10:30 a.m., when skies are most likely to be clear and shadows minimal. The Ikonos satellite, launched two years ago, makes 14 orbits a day and is expected to have a life span of five to seven years. CAMERA TELESCOPEThe camera system, made by Eastman Kodak, includes a telescope assembly using mirrors arrayed to provide a flat image over a wide field of view.description of the camera (Source: Space Imaging; Eastman Kodak)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HIJACKING (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); WEB SITES (74%); FINFISH FISHING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); AIRLINES (69%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); MINES & MINING (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PHOTOGRAPHY; SATELLITES; IKONOS 1 (SATELLITE); SPACE 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%) ;SPACE IMAGING 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); EQUATOR (79%); JUPITER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



369 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE DIARY 

BYLINE:  By Pamela LiCalzi O'Connell; E-mail: online@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Ooh, Circa '94
 Are America Online's promotional CD-ROM's -- those shrink-wrapped discs that regularly appear in your mailbox -- junk mail or pop-culture artifacts? 
 To John Lieberman and Jim McKenna, technology professionals from San Francisco, those seemingly ubiquitous CD's, which cannot be used for any other computer-related purpose, are "needless pollution." Through their Web site, at www
.nomoreaolcds.com, the two have embarked on an online mission to amass one million of the discs and deliver them to AOL's headquarters in Dulles, Va.
Since August, Mr. McKenna said, he has received more than 2,600 discs as a result of his effort. An affiliate site is gathering discs in Britain, and other sites are being readied in Australia, France and Germany. 
A spokesman for AOL, Nicholas Graham, emphasized that the company has an internal recycling policy, adding, "We think the number of people who are pleased to get the discs far outweighs those who are not pleased." 
In fact, there is a growing segment of the population that can't wait for the next AOL CD to pour out of cereal boxes: collectors. AOL has distributed more than 1,000 versions of the discs, and there are people who want to collect all of the many permutations. Some versions with distinctive artwork have sold on eBay for more than $100 each.
Lydia Cline, an architect in Overland Park, Kan., has collected more than 500 AOL CD versions. Far from detritus, AOL's discs "are destined to be among the antiques of the digital age," she said. "Ten years from now everyone who has tossed them out might wish they had saved a few." 
Mr. McKenna found that some people could not resist turning their discs into art objects. "Many people are submitting CD's with statements or poems on them," he said. "A good number of them are not fit to print. My favorite haiku read: 'Mailbox is full of surprises, Square round thing arrived, Yet another 1,000 free hours.' "

Dark Prophecies
At the Foresight Exchange
(ideosphere.com), a virtual stock market where you can bet with play money on events from the political to the trivial, the odds have shifted in a sobering direction since last month's terrorist attacks. For example, one of the most active issues in the week after the attacks was the betting on whether a nuclear weapon will be used somewhere in the world by 2010. The chances, according to the site's 4,000 players, are better than 50 percent.
The site, which is not for profit, began seven years ago on the basis of an idea floated by Robin Hanson (hanson.gmu.edu
/ideafutures.html), now an assistant professor of economics at George Mason University. He argued that citizens should have the opportunity to bet in policy markets in such a way that their views would help shape the priorities of politicians and researchers.
Players at the Foresight Exchange test their prognostication abilities by making "claims" about future events. Shares in those claims are then bought and sold, driving their value -- the probability that they will occur, according to market consensus -- higher or lower. While not all predictions involve earth-shattering concerns (Will the Clinton marriage last through 2003? More than 80 percent say yes), most deal with serious topics. 
A claim by one player, Randall Burns, that a major act of war or terrorism would occur on American soil by 2010 was recently judged to have come true, and trading was halted. Ken Kittlitz, who manages the site, said that claim had typically traded above 50 percent, its perceived probability, before Sept. 11. 
Recently there has been active trading in Mr. Burns's next prediction, that another terrorist attack in the United States will claim more than 200 lives before 2010. That claim is trading at more than 70 percent.

Binding Memories
While mainstream publishers prepare quick books on the events of Sept. 11, the online world is busy cataloging its own reaction, some of which has already made it into printed form. 
Blue Ear (blueear.com), one of the more literate discussion forums on the Web, has produced a work with help from New York University's journalism department titled "09/11 8:48 AM: Documenting America's Greatest Tragedy." It is a form of oral history consisting mostly of accounts posted online by survivors, witnesses and what Blue Ear's editor in chief, Ethan Casey, called "helpless onlookers." 
The book is available as an e-book for $6 and as a print-on-demand paperback for $14.99 from Booksurge.com. Profits are being donated to Red Cross relief efforts related to the attacks.
On the graphic arts front, more than 200 artists worldwide are contributing online works to Project091101.com, created in reaction to the events for a combination CD and book. Joost Korngold (www
.renascent.nl), a new-media artist in the Netherlands, said that a publisher was still being sought and that a charity would be designated to receive the proceeds. Unlike the contributors to Blue Ear's project, the artists will remain anonymous. "This was a touchy point," Mr. Korngold said. "Some artists were questioning the purity of this project as a means for getting their work published. Therefore we have decided no name- or logo-dropping. Only art."

Filling a Rice Bowl
In August I wrote of the demise of The Hunger Site (thehungersite.com), one of the first and most popular sites to let Web users donate to charity by looking at online ads. The concept was simple: If you clicked on a banner ad, a cup of rice was donated to international food programs. 
The site has returned under new management: Tim Kunin and Greg Hesterberg, the owners of EcologyFund.com, which operates in a similar way to buy and protect wilderness lands. They have also acquired and revived The Breast Cancer Site (www
.thebreastcancersite.com), which finances mammograms, and they plan soon to revive The Rainforest Site, which conserves rain-forest acreage.
At its peak, more than 220,000 people visited The Hunger Site daily. Mr. Hesterberg said that traffic now approached half that level. "We're hoping that everyone that dropped us from their bookmarks will come back," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); TERRORISM (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CD-ROM (COMPACT DISC-READ ONLY MEMORY) 

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: LIEBERMAN, JOHN; MCKENNA, JIM; O'CONNELL, PAMELA LICALZI 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (77%); KANSAS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (71%); AUSTRALIA (71%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



370 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: STARTING OVER: DISPATCHES FROM CITY AND SUBURB; 
Still on the River, Shifting Views

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
FOR New Yorkers, to stay or to leave, whether in crisis or not, has always been a kind of daily universal question. But with the nation warring, the pressure to make peace with a place, or to secure a sense of safety, seems greater than ever.
 For a young couple with a young child, like Andrew and Gabrielle Bordwin, whose daughter, Tamar, is 2, the move in January from a loft on Broadway, the artery of New York City, to a leafy cul-de-sac in Hastings-on-Hudson, a village of 7,600, raised and has yet to resolve the other big debate, that of living in the suburbs versus the city. 
 The fears and hopes -- the full emotional escort of uncertainty -- accompanied Andrew, 36, a photographer and an artist, and Gaby (as friends and family call her), 34, a graphic designer, when they left.
"It's true -- everybody joked about the 'passport,' " Andrew said, stretched out on the stalky grass, resting on his elbow. "I think it's an illusion, that fear. Once you start looking for it, you find it's not really there." 
"Would you stop philosophizing?" Gaby said, seated next to him. "You hand in your credibility card when you move all the boxes out." Cicadas underscored her voice.
"Half an hour ain't too far," Andrew said, joking defensively about the commute. He keeps a studio in the city. Gaby works on the Upper East Side at a publishing house.
"Half an hour -- I imposed that rule," she said.
The Bordwins' new house, a three-story Georgian Colonial built in 1919 on a quarter-acre of land, rose in a shaggy, shingled stack behind them. Dressed in a high-waisted smock, her red-haired bob a lighter version of her mother's, Tamar spun wide loops on the lawn. She seemed to understand, in her sail forward, that this was now her world to circumnavigate, to the edges of its hill and hedges.
When I saw them as a guest at a going-away party at their loft shortly before they moved out of the city, I told the Bordwins that I would never see them again. Outside their seventh-floor windows, City Hall and the Brooklyn Bridge glittered like a stage set seen from a theater box.
"We thought you were joking," Gaby said last week -- 10 months later -- during my first visit to their new home. Black Gucci sunglasses shaded her eyes, but the dry touch in her tone reprieved me.
The Bordwins moved downtown in 1995, part of the avant-garde few who were living by City Hall, happy with inconveniences in exchange for relatively inexpensive real estate, historical and architectural interest and urban adventure. The dry cleaner was a subway ride; the 1,200-square-foot loft was $220,000. The view was like living inside a postcard.
Six years later, now sleepless new parents worn thin by noise -- five Broadway bus lines once seemed like big-city bustle -- and hemmed in by space that diminished as the baby grew, they moved out, renting a house in Hastings with a six-month lease. Capitalizing on an unsure market that was still strong, the Bordwins sold the loft for $725,000. They bought the home on Fraser Place the next month for $695,000 -- the owners' asking price. They looked in the morning and bid when they finished lunch. As apartment dwellers during 17 years in New York, they had never owned, renovated or maintained a house. Their loft building -- alternative living -- had a superintendent and a porter.
The Bordwins are now experts on their house.
"We replaced 80 percent of the wiring, took out all of the radiators and put in a completely new heating system," Andrew said. "When you do a home renovation, you understand your house really well."
The work, they hope, will end at the end of this month. The Bordwins are living in the living room, like a miniaturized version of their city loft -- with pink-rose carpeting, which was left by the previous owners. Most of their furniture is stacked in the cottagelike garage: slick coffee tables and midcentury-modern dining chairs that look like wealthy travelers shipwrecked in evening dress. They may never reach shore in the quaint new house.
Hastings was at the top of a short list when the Bordwins decided to look for a place to live outside New York. Montclair, N.J., which they visited with good friends who lived in their loft building and had also decided to move, was too large.
"The high school is several thousand children," said Gaby, who had heard of Montclair, as she had Irvington and Hastings, the other communities the Bordwins looked at, in a new mothers' group she attended when Tamar was born, where talk was frequently about "staying or leaving."
The Bordwins liked the idea of being on the Hudson River, in a river town.
"We became really attached to the Hudson, using the parks there, when we lived downtown," Andrew said. "I feel like it's a lifeline to the city -- that we're really not that far away."
It is a Manhattan migratory pattern, for a type of New Yorker.
"People from the Upper West Side and Greenwich Village and downtown tend to come to river towns," said Arthur G. Riolo, an agent with Peter J. Riolo Inc., a Hastings-based real estate company that his father started 65 years ago. The price for a three-bedroom house is $450,000 to $550,000, Mr. Riolo said; there were only six houses for sale last week.
Mr. Riolo said 75 percent of his clients were people leaving New York City, whether buying or renting.
Hastings is a village, incorporated in 1879. The average family size is three. Thirty percent of the population are children; 24 percent are under 18. The largest population group is baby boomers, 45 to 54. The second-largest is 35 to 44. Hastings is a haven of homeowners -- 66 percent of the residents own their houses.
The development of its summer estates and old farms began in 1907, when a group of teachers and other professionals from New York City bought 17 acres and built year-round houses. By the 1920's, Hastings was an industrial town with two waterfront employers: a chemical plant and a cable and wire company. When they closed in the 1970's, the village was as much a bedroom community as it was blue-collar -- a balance in backgrounds that people like the Bordwins, moving to Hastings, consider as much a strength as good schools.
Merchants on Main Street and on Warburton Avenue, the village's downtown shopping district, are largely local -- a carefully guarded vestige of its working-class roots.
"There's a Thomas's Cafe," said Mr. Riolo, whose office is on Main Street. "It's exactly what Starbucks would be, but it's a family-run business. We don't have commercial square footage that would allow commercial chains to come in. Because of parking requirements, chains wouldn't be interested. Zoning would be too restrictive."
Hastings had "a buzz," Gaby recalled, a reputation that has attracted artists and other independently employed people over the years.
Lewis Hine, the photographer and social documentarian, lived in Hastings in the 1930's, a fact that intrigued Fred Charles, an architectural photographer, who moved with his wife, Eileen, a copywriter, to Hastings from Chelsea in 1992. The Charleses, with their two children, are neighbors of the Bordwins.
In 1991, on assignment for Time magazine, Mr. Charles photographed Kentlands, a development in Maryland designed by Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, parents and proponents of "new urbanist" suburban planning like Seaside, Fla., which they also designed, the vaguely Victorian town that was used as the location for the 1998 film "The Truman Show."
"Hastings is what Kentlands wants to be," Mr. Charles said. "A mixture of house sizes, not the lock-step single-level suburban homes. There's a porch culture -- you can speak to neighbors from your porch."
The Charleses and the Bordwins also live next to the Old Croton Trailway, a 19th-century aqueduct that is now a 26-mile-long state park. The pedestrian presence of people biking, jogging and strolling next door added a level of villagelike urbanity to suburban life, Mr. Charles said.
Having the option to walk around town, rather than rely on driving, which the Bordwins insisted upon in choosing a new place to live, was a revelation, though.
"It's funny," Gaby said, curled on the grass as the sun set. "You come out here and you think, 'Oh, I'd love to get a little peace and quiet,' and you step outside your house, and there's nobody there."
What sounded like a monstrous bullfrog -- the volunteer fire department's horn -- went off somewhere beyond the tops of the trees, croaking in the dusk.
"I would put Tamar in her snowsuit and take her to the park, and it would be empty," Gaby recalled. "We'd walk in the neighborhood, and she would say, 'People?' "
Diversity was also a problematic surprise for the Bordwins, especially as parents. Though economically and religiously diverse, Hastings is not racially diverse. It is 90 percent white and 2 percent black, according to the 2000 census; 4 percent of the populace is Asian, and 4 percent Hispanic.
"I think by and large that the neighborhoods are pretty segregated in the city," Gaby said. "But the broader community, on the street and in the buses and subways, in public places and at work, are more mixed. I wanted a like-minded community, but I didn't want to move to a place where everybody is like me."
With a hungry child insistently interrupting, Andrew and Gaby got to their feet, making plans to eat at a restaurant by the river. The porch lights shone yellow on the house as we walked to it -- the color of a kind of nostalgic view of suburbia.
"You just make a bargain," Gaby said, pulling a small sweater onto a small body with its arms in the air. "You say, 'I'm willing to move out of the city if I can preserve some of the things that I like.' "
People will say that they move for the children, but I began to suspect that children were often only the excuse for being able to give something up with grace. The Bordwins looked older, not in age, but in maturity, as though they had shifted generations, from growing up to bringing up.
"I never felt like an especially edgy person," Gaby said. "But I felt like New York was what gave me my edge. That was the badge of honor."
"I do think I'm duller now," she said, organizing Tamar for the car and the drive to dinner. "But it's also kind of a relief."

GRAPHIC: Photos: VILLAGERS -- Andrew and Gabrielle Bordwin with Tamar in Hastings-on-Hudson. They moved from New York in January. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1); COEXISTING -- Downtown Hastings, left. Above, the Bordwins' new living room, where a refrigerator is temporarily parked.; A NEW LIFESTYLE -- The Bordwin family in their backyard. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); CITIES (89%); THEATER (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); PUBLISHING (50%) HOUSING; SUBURBS 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L; BORDWIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



371 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Slower Growth and Wider Deficit Are Seen for Indonesia 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Underscoring how security concerns have clouded Indonesia's economic outlook, the International Monetary Fund agreed today that the country's government would be forced to run a wider budget deficit than planned next year.
 A visiting team of I.M.F. officials, led by the fund's Asia-Pacific assistant director, Daniel Citrin, approved a revised 2002 budget that predicts slower economic growth, higher inflation and a wider budget deficit. 
 Threatened reprisals by fringe militant groups against American interests in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country, have put foreign companies on edge, battering the currency and stock market, and making it harder for the government to raise sorely needed funds.
"The broader concern is what it does to the overall investment climate," said Mark Baird, the Indonesia country director for the World Bank in Jakarta. Investors everywhere are skittish in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the United States, he said, but "the political context here is probably more difficult." 
Indonesia is still struggling to recover from the effects of the Asian financial crisis that began more than four years ago. It still depends on foreign aid, including the $5 billion economic rescue program administered by the fund.
Indonesia's biggest creditors are scheduled to meet in Jakarta early next month to consider the country's request for new loans.
Only last month, the I.M.F. released a $395 million loan to Indonesia after signing a new agreement with the country's new president, Megawati Sukarnoputri. It had withheld that loan since December amid disputes with her predecessor, Abdurrahman Wahid.
A recurring source of friction has been the pace of the government's sales of state-owned companies and assets taken over during the crisis. Many were seized from politically powerful friends and relatives of former President Suharto, who along with some politicians have resisted efforts to sell them at "fire sale" prices to foreigners.
"The broader view is that these assets have to be returned to the private sector and that that should be done as expeditiously as possible," said David Nellor, the senior resident representative for the I.M.F. in Jakarta. But rising anti-American sentiment in the streets may make it more dangerous than ever for Indonesia's financial mangers to sell such assets.
Business confidence is also being tested. Since returning from the United States last month with $530 million in new financial aid promises, Mrs. Megawati has moved to calm the public and reassure foreigners. Most expatriates, many inured to the frequent sight of demonstrations in the capital, seemed willing to wait and see whether she would succeed.
Nonetheless, many foreign offices stayed shut on Monday after forces led by the United States had struck Afghanistan. "We didn't know what the civil situation was going to be like," said William J. Cummings, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, which shut its office in Jakarta on Monday as a precautionary measure.
Security, meanwhile, has also reportedly been stepped up at oil and gas operations around Indonesia, Asia's only OPEC member. Gas and oil revenues are a crucial source of government income.
But foreign companies like Exxon Mobil, Conoco and Unocal perform most of the drilling. Earlier this year, Exxon Mobil was forced to suspend operations at gas fields in Aceh province, where Muslim rebels are waging a separatist campaign, after repeated attacks on its local employees.
As long as oil and gas keep flowing, Indonesia remains somewhat insulated economically. Unlike many nations, Indonesia does not depend on high-technology exports to the United States, and the prospect of higher oil prices augurs well for it.
Gloom on the securities market is making it more difficult for Indonesia's financial authorities to raise the 33.5 trillion rupiah ($3.35 billion) in asset sales and privatization they have promised the I.M.F. this year.
Indonesia's currency, the rupiah, has fallen 9 percent since Sept. 11 on fears of unrest, prompting the country's central bank to say it would have to sell United States dollars to stem the rupiah's slide. Stocks have also suffered, with Jakarta's benchmark index having lost 17 percent since the attacks in the United States. Last week, Indonesia called off the sale of a chemical company when it said the bids received were too low. It has also delayed the sale of a controlling stake in a cement company to Cemex of Mexico.
Some economists warn that further sales delays could force the I.M.F. to delay its next loan. But the I.M.F.'s statements today seemed to give the government latitude.
"From the I.M.F. there's still a lot of good will toward this government," said James W. Castle, who runs his own consulting firm in Jakarta and serves as president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Indonesia. "The current situation could provide a fig leaf," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Indonesian plainclothes policeman arrests an anti-American protester yesterday in Jakarta. (Agence France-Presse) Chart: "Unrest in Indonesia"The economy in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country, has suffered since September 11. Graphs shows the Indonesian Rupiah to the U.S. dollar and the Jakarta stock price index from January 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); RELIGION (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); POLITICS (72%); BONDS (71%); TRENDS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); AIRLINES (65%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ISLAM; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; FRINGE GROUPS AND MOVEMENTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%) INDONESIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



372 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: A New Reality Wrapped Up in Silk, Paint and Leather 

BYLINE:  By PILAR GUZMAN 

 BODY:
BACKSTAGE at this year's French Designer Showhouse was like a scene from Luis Bunuel's film "The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie," the surreal 1972 classic that follows a band of friends through a series of outrageous plot twists -- infidelity, assassination attempts, armies of unannounced dinner guests -- that fail to undermine the characters' unflappable self-control. 
 After two weeks of construction and delivery delays, aborted shipments and a crisis of faith over the show's propriety, what is formally the seventh American Hospital of Paris French Designer Showhouse opens its doors today, right on schedule, in a 1906 Beaux Arts mansion at 47 East 68th Street. 
 The show house, which displays the work of more than 25 designers, decorative painters and artisans for a month, benefits the American Hospital of Paris. (Part of the proceeds from admissions will go to the Sept. 11 World Trade Center Relief and Recovery Fund, which the American Hospital of Paris helped set up.)
While many of the rooms recognize the cocooning instinct that follows upheavals, others cling playfully to the notion of the interior as a theatrical escape from times of uncertainty. And at this moment, surreality may be preferable to reality. 
One end of the spectrum is represented by Florence de Dampierre's transformation of a traditional salon living room into an otherworldly universe with floral wall murals and lighting that seems to offer eternal daylight. At the other end is a movie set den (call it "The Old Man and the Sofa") created by Angela Hemingway to honor her late husband, Jack (son of Ernest). The den is jammed with Thomasville Furniture's updated greatest hits of Hemingway machismo, right down to the terra-cotta-colored leather divan.
Whether deliberately theatrical or more practical, the show house registers a time of transition when, as Ms. Hemingway suggests, "everyone just wants to be at home." 
Overall, the most impressive rooms are the subtle ones, where the challenge of marrying the fanciful and relevant comes off effortlessly.
Paul Mathieu's dining room is an adroit balance of city and country, inspired by nature. It's the kind of soothing space you could spend the morning in with a cup of coffee and newspaper or hold a dinner party. "People need a room to do more than one thing these days," Mr. Mathieu said. The walls, which are bisected horizontally -- earthy brown below, a celestial lavender-blue above -- are covered with the designer's own figurative sketches. 
"I wanted to show with the two colors how we are attached to the earth but also that we need this poetry of dancing figures in the sky," said Mr. Mathieu, who added tiny twin towers to the bottom of one of his drawings. "Especially now." 
The space was designed to introduce Air, his new line of walnut furniture for Donghia. The line, a riff on midcentury modern with a French inflection, includes a dining room table and sideboards that seemed ready to leap on elongated, curved legs -- inspired by, Mr. Mathieu said, a surprise encounter with a deer.
Sometimes it's enough for a room to serve as pure retreat. The drawn shades and cork-lined walls in Maureen Wilson Footer's womblike bedroom are homage to her muse, the hypochondriac, neurasthenic and noise-averse Marcel Proust, though many New Yorkers would also appreciate it that way. 
But Ms. Wilson Footer, who did her graduate work in 18th-century French interior architecture and furniture at L'Ecole du Louvre, is careful not to get too mired in the past. Her beloved Louis XVI furniture (signed Pluvinet and Criard) sits easily alongside a starkly minimal concrete mantle. "I don't want to live in a museum period bedroom," she said. 
Even the most efficient spaces can still be romantic. Nathalie du Luart and Delphine Vendel designed a small study with themselves in mind. "We designed a space that we would like to have as women who work from home," Ms. du Luart said. Their prize piece is a sycamore desk that the team designed as a kind of modern secretary -- equipped to handle a computer but with the Old World luxury of inlaid leather -- that folds up neatly to form a sideboard. A fresh vertical stripe fabric by Sanderson hung along one wall, echoed in a tiny green horizontal stripe painted around the upper perimeter of the wall, gives the room an additional layer of crisp texture. 
When you enter Odile de Schietere's bedroom for a "gentilhomme," you feel as if her fantasy patron, an American gentleman living abroad, might walk in at any moment. This character, like its author, isn't afraid to pair a dramatic Federal-style American bed (found in Paris) with a whimsical rhinoceros-shaped table. A minimal tatami-esque border around an animal print rug and spare window treatments by Hunter Douglas behind more ornate ones balance out the antiques. A more contemporary bathroom outfitted by Ann Sacks is cleverly carved out of a closet. 
Some of the show's most inspired touches lie in the decorative painting and wall treatments, and in the lighting designs.
Michael Tyson Murphy's wall motif -- a subtle hand-painted checkerboard and floral pattern inspired by a French Art Deco rug -- adds dimension and an illusion of space to the narrow room. The 60's-influenced cyberbiological abstract mural by John Opella and Roy Steves on the fourth-floor landing and the additional walls painted in faux bronze are also surprising contrasts to the traditional space. 
Robert DeCarlo added an ebonized carved wood ceiling frieze and hand-painted faux wood to a black lacquer Deco kitchen. But he countered the formal touches with inexpensive and artful details: Crate & Barrel glasses and the store's $129 Arts & Crafts-inspired standing lamps only look expensive. The colorful geometric pattern on sheer window shades was actually done with spray paint by Mr. DeCarlo himself. (Check out the 1970's-modern "hutch," from the Hell's Kitchen Salvation Army.)
Stephane Pagani, of Cotule Lighting Design in Brooklyn, created a sleek, intriguing lighting fixture which revolves above the third-floor landing, bringing to mind oars paddling gently through the air.
Even Ms. de Dampierre's decorative wall treatments for the dreamlike salon apply to mortal dwellings. 
Oversized flower murals by Elizabeth Thompson in the overwhelmingly lavender space and one painted on a white Crate & Barrel couch are bold and transforming. And the ceiling effect -- periwinkle at the perimeter molding that diffuses to a faint lavender -- is something a crafty type might pull off at home. Aluminum baseboards that double as light boxes and the tricky white sand on the floor add to the room's almost lunar quality. 
Even in a slowing economy, design as theater has its place. A narrow reception hall plays on the mood shift of a changing season. Pierre Court and Melissa Brown had grayish-blue geometric shapes, supergraphic style, painted over cream-colored walls to suggest the long shadows of autumn light filtered through a dense forest. 
"The idea was to break the boring proportions of the room," Mr. Court said. The primitive forest effect is amplified by an ebony Tucker Robbins pillar from the Philippines. With a giant swath of rust silk suspended diagonally across the ceiling and an oversized flower made of a red feather African headdress hung like a medallion from a mantelpiece mirror, Mr. Court and Ms. Brown prove that bold statements can have subtlety, too. 
Christopher Coleman's masculine turquoise and black study walks a fine line between credible interior and symbolic art installation. Few would have thought that fabric printed with newspaper stock tables, from Stroheim & Romann, would actually make stylish sliding window screens. You could imagine spending a lot of time in this home office, with a day bed at the end of the room and a Lucite desk. The deep turquoise wall paint is not quite the color of money but a tad more cheerful. 
Even more theatrical than viable, Etienne Coffinier's guest bedroom plays up the Lilliputian scale of the room with Nobilis fabrics and textures that cover every square inch of the room. Seriously French on first glance -- Cote France Louis XV-style day bed, Louis XV Dos D'Ane writing desk and red and white toile -- the space also shows the designer's sense of humor with a series of feather-duster wall sconces. 
Even the weirdly wry presence of Louis Vuitton luggage propping Mr. Coffinier's chamber -- when unthinkable tensions are making travel a gargantuan task -- could be an appropriately farcical touch. Happily,the imagination is a realm where one can always roam freely.
The American Hospital of Paris French Designer Showhouse, at 47 East 68th Street (Madison Avenue), is open through Nov. 11, 11-5 daily, Thursdays until 8. Admission $20; (212) 838-0157.

GRAPHIC: Photos: STUDY IN LIGHT -- Poetic and practical, Paul Mathieu's dining room, with his chandelier, sconces and table. (Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); FOR THE GUEST -- Cote France reproductions: a Louis XV folding desk ($7,171) and Louis XVI wood side chair ($1,526, without fabric).; RECEPTION ROOM -- Dramatic paint is joined by 20 yards of orange-red silk fabric from Ellen Ford ($60 a yard). Left, the Hemingway room with a Luxembourg sofa ($5,085) and La Rotonde chair ($1,230) from Thomasville. (Photographs by Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F8); UP CLOSE -- In a little dining room on the fourth floor, Michael Tyson Murphy hand-cut a lavender floral motif, based on a French Art Deco rug, over a barely visible checkerboard pattern in a reverse stencil; the small red and black lacquer table is $1,250.; WORK ROOM -- Christopher Coleman used a financial page print (left, $58 a yard from Stroheim & Romann) and a projection clock, $440 from Gallery 91. Above, Paul Mathieu's mural.; STAIRWAY -- Inspired by rhomboids from the 60's and a city grid, John Opella and Roy Steves hand-painted enamel over gesso on the fourth-floor landing.; PROUST BEDROOM -- Maureen Wilson Footer's womblike room uses cork wall tiles from Natural Cork ($2.29 a square foot); the tree in the corner is an African ladder from Tucker Robbins, $3,600. Left, Robert DeCarlo's kitchen has a Hunter Douglas sheer shade painted with Krylon; Crate & Barrel Palmetto vases are $49.95 and $59.95. The Kyoto lamp, also from Crate & Barrel ($129), has a linen shade. (Photographs by Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PAINTING (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); ASSASSINATION (57%) INTERIOR DESIGN 

PERSON: GUZMAN, PILAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



373 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Shows Rebound, But With Fewer Tourists 

BYLINE:  By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

 BODY:
One month after being emptied by the World Trade Center attacks, Broadway theaters are showing signs of bouncing back to near normal attendance, according to new figures from the League of American Theaters and Producers. The numbers reflect a stronger than usual turnout by New Yorkers and suburbanites, whose boosterism has helped compensate for a drop in theatergoing tourists from outside the area.
 From a low of $3.5 million during the week that ended Sept. 16, when performances were canceled, gross box office sales jumped to $10.5 million for the week that ended Oct. 7. Sales were $11.6 million for the same period last year, the league reported. 
 Last week's attendance was 183,966 -- not so far removed from the figure for the same period the previous year, 202,789. 
"On the basis of gross and attendance, we have bounced back a very long way," said Jed Bernstein, president of the league, "but that is leavened by the fact that we have four fewer shows." One of them, "The Rocky Horror Show," may reopen; a decision is to be announced next week, said Jordan Roth, the show's producer. 
Some of the biggest attendance increases were for Broadway's longest-running productions. Box office sales for "Beauty and the Beast," in its eighth year, jumped to $543,381 last week from $436,954 for the week that ended Sept. 30.
Until Sept. 11, shows like "Beauty and the Beast" relied heavily on tourists from places like Japan and Ohio. "Now the tourists we are seeing are people from New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester," said Chris Boneau, a partner in a publicity firm that handles several Broadway shows. Last weekend theater managers also noticed an increase in families attending with their children, he said, another sign of normalcy.
"We have been seeing the effects of the marketing promotions, the new ads and, of course, the mayor," said Karen Hauser, director of research at the league. "The mayor has been great. He is our best P.R. person."
A survey of theatergoers by the league confirms a sharp drop in out-of-town tourism, which still has theater producers worried. 
Of those surveyed at Broadway theaters during the two-week period that ended on Sunday, 26 percent were from New York City, 26 percent from neighboring suburbs, 44 percent from other parts of the United States and 4 percent from abroad. A year ago a survey showed that 17 percent of theatergoers were from New York, 22 percent from the suburbs, 50 percent from the rest of the United States and 11 percent from abroad. 
Mr. Bernstein noted that the number of foreigners had fallen off drastically, by 65 to 70 percent since the attacks, while domestic tourism was down by only 11 percent which, he said, was "better than expected." 
He cautioned that Broadway producers were still holding their breath. "Unless these numbers get better, then it bodes ill on a going-forward basis," he said, adding that many producers were waiting before committing to new shows for the spring.
"Everybody is very cautious and putting things on hold," said John Breglio, a prominent entertainment lawyer and chairman of the Theater Development Fund. "This has had a very serious, chilling effect. We need to encourage people not only to come out and see the shows, but to put on the shows the people can see."
The latest figures showed an upturn for new shows that opened recently. For "Hedda Gabler," which opened at the Ambassador Theater on Oct. 4, box office receipts went to $197,188 for the week that ended on Sunday from $148,078 for the week of previews that ended on Sept. 30. Attendance rose by 1,238 during the same period.
Broadway still has one more week before the expiration of concessions granted by unions, royalty holders and theater owners to ease the economic impact of the terrorist attacks. Some shows have already cut back on concessions in response to rising attendance.
"There is no question that every week things are improving," Mr. Breglio said. "But two things are of concern in the long run -- the number of tourists, which are way down, and the environment for bringing in new shows."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attendance is improving for Broadway shows like "Aida," with Adam Pascal and Maya Days. (Joan Marcus/"Aida")(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (91%); MAYORS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TICKET SALES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SUBURBS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (71%) THEATER; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF AMERICAN THEATERS AND PRODUCERS 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



374 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Filming of commercials in New York is making a comeback after the disruption of Sept. 11.

BYLINE:  By Allison Fass 

 BODY:
WHEN Jeff Gorman, a commercial director, was making arrangements to shoot a spot for a government agency, he was working out logistical details for the site selected for the production, an emergency call center in Jersey City.
 A day or two before the shoot, Mr. Gorman recalled, "we were told, in the event of a crisis, such as an attack on the World Trade Center, they would of course have to deny us the use of the space." 
The shoot was scheduled for Sept. 12. 
"I thought, 'What are the chances?' " said Mr. Gorman, who owns JGF, a production company in Los Angeles. "It was quite ironic to hear those words being uttered and then to have them fulfilled." After Sept. 11, the shoot was moved to a sound stage at Universal Studios near Los Angeles and was completed last week.
Like virtually all businesses, the commercial production industry was initially rocked by the terrorist attacks. Production on all commercials in New York City was halted immediately. Shoots did not resume in the boroughs outside Manhattan until Sept. 14; in Manhattan, they resumed -- only north of Canal Street -- on Sept. 25.
Now, as the recovery continues, the industry is assessing the effects of the disruptions, which caused many productions to be postponed or moved. The timing could not have been worse for an industry that had already been dealing with the effects of the softening economy, which led to reductions in commercial production schedules, and a six-month strike last year when members of the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists would not perform commercial work.
With the resumption of production, 38 permits have been issued for commercial shoots, said Patricia Reed Scott, commissioner of the mayor's office for film, theater and broadcasting.
"We're now at the level of pre-strike in this very difficult time," Ms. Scott said, "which I must say is encouraging." Commercials are being shot in the city for major advertisers like BMW, Burger King, Crest, Heineken, Mountain Dew and Wrigley's, she added.
To keep that momentum from slowing, there are initiatives by production companies, marketers, agencies, unions and related organizations, cooperating to ensure that commercial production remains in New York.
For instance, a coalition named We Love New York has been formed to bolster advertising, as well as theater, television and film, in the aftermath of the attacks.
The industry is "mounting an ongoing effort to make sure the world knows New York is open for business and New York means business," said Jon Kamen, chief executive of @radical.media in New York, a leading production company, who is active in the We Love New York coalition.
"New York is a very resilient city," he added, "that has bounced back quite beautifully."
Members of We Love New York include, in addition to the actors unions, the Association of Independent Commercial Producers, the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and New York Women in Film and TV.
"Advertisers and agencies are really looking to work with production companies and bring them back here to support the New York economy," said Matt Miller, president at the commercial producers' association. "For jobs to move away, out of whatever reason -- fear, paranoia -- that needs to be squelched."
About 30 percent to 35 percent of commercials shot in the United States are produced in New York, by Mr. Miller's estimate, compared with 50 percent to 60 percent in Los Angeles. New York had been losing shoots because of its higher costs of production, though that is a problem affecting all spots made in the United States; many commercials are being shot in Canada and Europe for that reason.
Some companies now are considering producing commercials in New York that would not have been shot there before Sept. 11 to show support for the city's recovery efforts.
For example, Bob Fisher, executive producer at Celsius Films in New York, said his company had refused to give an estimated price to shoot a commercial in Canada to a client who made the request on Sept. 11.
"There are always commercials that cannot be shot in New York," Mr. Fisher said. "If I'm looking for a desert, Coney Island doesn't work."
"But as far as the ability to do production in New York," he added, "New York crews and equipment are capable of producing any job in the world."
As for Mr. Gorman of JGF, who was stranded in New York through the week of Sept. 11, he said he had an office in New York and worked from there two to four times a year.
"It's either because the advertising agency is a New York-based agency and they want to shoot there," Mr. Gorman said, "or you're looking for a specific New York location -- and there is only one New York." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SHOOTINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); MAYORS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); AIRLINES (70%) ADVERTISING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PRODUCTION 

PERSON: ;FASS, ALLISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



375 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Passenger-Screening Companies Lobby for Expanded Role 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD with MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The companies that screen passengers and baggage at the nation's airports readily acknowledge that they do not do their job very well. Yet as Congress debates the future of aviation security, these companies are lobbying hard for an expanded role, arguing they are the only ones who know how to do it right.
 "This is an opportunity to fix what has been wrong for many, many years in the United States," said Thomas Berglund, chief executive of Securitas A.B., the Swedish company that recently purchased Burns International Services of Chicago to become the third-biggest screening company in the United States. Its Globe Security unit screens passengers for American Airlines at Logan International Airport in Boston, the departure point for the first hijacked plane that hit the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. 
 Securitas and two other European companies that have bought the big American providers of airport screening services over the last 18 months contend that the economics of the business are flawed. Because it falls upon the airlines to hire screening contractors and pay them, contracts typically go to the lowest bidder.
"In Europe, we deal with vice presidents of operations, or heads of corporate security; here, we deal with purchasing agents," said Lior Zouker, president and chief executive of ICTS International N.V., the Dutch company that last year purchased the Huntleigh USA Corporation of St. Louis to become the No. 2 American screening company. "What do you want a purchasing agent to do, besides getting a contract for 10 cents per hour less?" Huntleigh did the screening of passengers on the United Airlines flight from Logan that crashed into the second twin tower.
To put the business on what they consider a more rational financial footing, the companies favor the Bush administration's approach -- and the approach favored by House Republicans -- to overhauling airport security. For at least an 18-month period, the federal government would contract with the companies to supply screening services, under tougher standards set and policed by Washington. Any company that flunked would be replaced by federal workers.
"We think we have some pretty good models in NASA, the State Department's embassy protection system, where they hire outside contractors, who are really quite good," Chet Lunner, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, said. "There is some evidence that if you raise the standards, you can get better quality." Administration officials add that it would be easier to fire contract workers who failed to perform than to remove civil service employees.
In the Senate, on the other hand, there is strong sentiment for a federal takeover of airport security, on the ground that only the presence of government security personnel will restore public confidence. The Senate began debate on the issue this evening and is expected to continue on Thursday.
"It's the job of the U.S. government to keep America safe," said Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia. "We can no longer afford to leave any aspect of our airport security to the lowest bidder among private companies. We need a federal work force with federal training and testing, federal accountability and oversight at every airport in the country -- large and small."
Mr. Berglund of Securitas said that his company bought into the American market expressly to change it. Securitas has also recently purchased security operations from Pinkerton and Loomis Fargo, a business formed by the 1997 combination of Wells Fargo and Loomis Armored Inc. Besides Securitas and ICTS -- which stands for International Consultants on Targeted Security -- the international invasion also includes Securicor P.L.C., a British company that last year acquired Argenbright Security from AHL Services of Atlanta to become the largest airport screening company in the United States.
The security companies have never had a trade group or a lobbying operation, but since Sept. 11 they have hired Burston-Marstellar for public relations; Kenneth Quinn, a former general counsel of the F.A.A., as their lawyer, and Ungaretti & Harris, a lobbying firm led by another former F.A.A. lawyer, to press their cause.
In Europe, passenger screening is the responsibility of governments, not the airlines, and European governments use either civil servants or contractors to do the work. Legislation now under consideration here would create a passenger tax to pay the bill, so that, as in Europe, there would be no commercial incentive to scrimp.
Whether any of the screening companies were lax in their duties in the four hijackings of Sept. 11 is not clear. The planes may have been hijacked with weapons, like small knives and box-cutters, that the Federal Aviation Administration's rules tell screeners to ignore.
But over all, their performance has been poor, according to government investigators. In April 2000, the General Accounting Office reported to Congress on the latest of a series of tests in which investigators set out to slip weapons by airport security.
"Screeners' ability to detect objects during the agency's tests is not improving, and in some cases is worsening," the report said.
Last year, Argenbright pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $1.2 million for falsifying records, performing inadequate background checks and hiring at least 14 airport workers in Philadelphia who had criminal convictions for burglary, firearm possession, drug dealing and other crimes.
David J. Beaton, president of the Global Aviation division of Securicor, said the Philadelphia problem was isolated. Asked if screeners had failed to catch some weapons in carry-on bags, Mr. Beaton said that his employees had confiscated more than 4,000 items last year.
None of the companies have thus far made European-style changes in the United States. Mr. Zouker said that 10 months ago, a major American airline invited him to review security arrangements at one of its hubs and asked if he would take over and improve it. The average pay for screeners at the airport, he said, was $6.75 an hour; when he told the airline that he would have to pay $3 an hour more to upgrade the operation, the airline said it was not ready to take that step.
"We need the federal government to come into the picture, to drop the airlines out of the equation," Mr. Zouker said. "They're not bad guys, but they have a conflict of interest" -- namely, their profits.
Any overhaul of the security system, he said, needs to make it possible to pay screening workers -- who sometimes make less than employees at airport food stands -- at rates that reflect the importance of their work.
"You have to look at the risk behind it, that we will lose an aircraft," Mr. Zouker said. "What is the risk at a fast food restaurant -- that he will put on less mayonnaise?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Companies that screen passengers and luggage at airports like Hartsfield Atlanta International favor an overhaul of airport security. (Robin Nelson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (91%); LOBBYING (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); HIJACKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); TERRORISM (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (56%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; AIRPORTS 

COMPANY: SECURITAS AB (85%); ICTS INTERNATIONAL NV (67%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); BURNS INTERNATIONAL SERVICES CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;SECURITAS AB; BURNS INTERNATIONAL SERVICES CORP; ICTS (CO); AHL SERVICES INC 

TICKER: SECU.B (STO) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (85%); SIC7381 DETECTIVE, GUARD, & ARMORED CAR SERVICES (85%); NAICS928110 NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); NAICS488111 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (67%); SIC9711 NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; RICHTEL, MATT; BERGLUND, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



376 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Even in good times, airlines depend on a hairline balancing of supply and demand.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason Magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies." E-mail: vpostrel@reason.com.

 BODY:
ON a recent flight from Los Angeles to Dallas, the American Airlines pilot thanked the passengers profusely at the beginning and end of the trip.
 The plane was packed, with only a few empty middle seats, and crew members were happy to be back to the world of crowded cabins and potential profits. 
 Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the airlines were struggling to overcome the effects of the economic downturn. Business travel in particular had dropped sharply. After the attacks, planes were grounded for two days, meaning the airlines kept paying their operating costs but had absolutely no revenue. Since then, fears not only of hijackings but of airport security problems and delays have discouraged passengers from flying. 
All in all, it's been a very bad month for the airlines. They've laid off about 80,000 workers and dropped about a fifth of their flights. As Congress rushed to pass a bailout, giving the airlines $5 billion in grants and $10 billion in loan guarantees, the perception grew that airlines are an inherently bad business -- a "failing industry," in the words of Peter G. Fitzgerald, the Illinois Republican who was the sole Senator to vote against the bailout.
Economists who study the industry say it's simplistic to argue that the airlines are always in trouble. The industry isn't exceptionally profitable, but it does make reasonable returns.
Still, even under normal circumstances -- and these aren't normal circumstances -- the business does present definite challenges to managers.
The essential problem is matching capacity with demand, which requires making spending decisions far in advance of ticket sales. That may not sound unusual -- many businesses have to guess how much product to make -- but the problem is harder for airlines than for manufacturers. If they plan for too many passengers, they can't carry the extra seats in inventory.
"Either you sell the seat for this particular flight for this hour or you don't sell it," said Pablo Spiller, an economist at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley. "You can't say, 'I'll keep the Thursday, Oct. 4, seat at 5 for next week.' No, it went away, that seat."
If planes fly with few passengers because an airline overestimated demand, those flights tend to lose money. For a given flight, the costs of fuel, labor and the aircraft itself are essentially fixed, regardless of how many passengers the plane is carrying. That's why the airline's "load factor," the percentage of seats filled, is such an important indicator of how well it is doing.
When the load factor drops, airlines tend to get into fare wars. Adding another passenger to a given flight costs almost nothing, so any additional revenue will help cover those fixed costs. If one airline has too much capacity, it will sharply reduce fares to fill up its planes. Competitors will drop their fares to match, lest they lose their passengers.
"It's a very competitive industry," Professor Spiller said. "It's not a fragmented industry -- you have a few large players -- but it's very competitive because in every market you have several players." The hub-and-spoke system means that most travelers can choose among several airlines. This competition means air fares behave almost like agricultural commodities, with airlines having little control over prices. (The exception is for flights starting or ending at "fortress hubs," like Delta's in Atlanta, where one airline controls a great majority of flights.)
In any new industry, managers have to learn how to deal with the particular challenges of the business. Just ask the dot-commers. Airlines aren't a new business, of course, but they operated in a completely different environment from 1938, when the federal government imposed regulation, until 1978.
"They have fundamental challenges matching capacity with demand -- both in getting that capacity and predicting what that demand will be -- and adjusting to business cycles," said Clifford Winston, an economist with the Brookings Institution. Learning how to do that after deregulation, he adds, "was going to take them a while; for 40 years, they had no practice at it and no incentive to do anything about it."
Travel demand fluctuates greatly with overall economic conditions. Since 1978, when federal price and route controls were removed, the airlines have gone through just a couple of full business cycles. "In each successive decade, they were getting better," Dr. Winston said.
After the 1981-82 recession, the airlines bounced back. But during the good times of the mid- and late-1980's, they bought far too many planes. That gave them too much capacity when the economy turned down in the early 90's, leading to fare wars and financial losses.
In the boom of the 1990's, the airlines made plenty of money. To the annoyance of passengers, they not only limited discounts but kept capacity relatively tight. That discipline not only increased profits but made adjustment easier when the downturn came. Before Sept. 11, Dr. Winston argues, "The expectation was, yes, things might slow down for them, but they were gong to come through this part of the business cycle better than they had in the past."
The attacks, however, were a completely different sort of shock. "You have not seen a reduction in demand like this ever," Professor Spiller said. "This is a cataclysm. It's like an earthquake shook a country. The country stops."
Aside from lobbying for the bailout, the airlines have responded by reducing fixed costs. Ordinarily, they wouldn't lay off employees, preferring to cut work hours, because bringing on new people when business improves is complicated and expensive. Similarly, dropping flights can alienate customers, so airlines try to avoid that step. Now, however, they have no choice. "The demand drop is so large that there is no way out," Professor Spiller said.
The attacks created a genuine, but perhaps short-term crisis, for the industry. The continuing crisis that the business is tagged with is less real. With the schedule cuts in place and Americans beginning to travel again, load factors are rising. The problem with this cyclical industry is that its fortunes always upset someone.
"When they're losing money, the airlines are crying; when they're making money, the politicians are crying," Professor Spiller said, noting that not long ago elected officials were accusing the industry of profiteering. "So it's a wonderful business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Continental, like other big airlines, has announced cutbacks since the terrorist attacks. Airline employees waited for customers at Bush International Airport in Houston on Sept. 15. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TICKET SALES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SALES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; SPILLER, PABLO (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



377 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Urges Special Session As Shortfall Imperils Budget 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland announced today that Connecticut faced a growing budget shortfall that could reach $300 million -- more than three times the amount estimated earlier this week -- and urged a special session of the Legislature to cut spending.
 The announcement followed a closed-door meeting between Mr. Rowland and several legislative leaders in the State Capitol, where charts and graphs were used to illustrate how an expected shortfall in tax revenue would undercut the current $13 billion budget. 
 The state's budget director, Mark S. Ryan, said after the meeting that Connecticut's economy had been slowing before the Sept. 11 terror attacks, and that since then, revenues from income, sales and corporate taxes have fallen sharply.
"The World Trade Center disaster had a tremendous impact on the state's economy," Mr. Ryan said. "Before it, the economy might have recovered within a few months. Now it may take much longer." 
But the leaders of the Democratic majority in the Legislature are wary of rushing into special session to cut the budget based on projections of economic data, rather than real numbers.
"I don't think we're in a crisis here," said the House speaker, Moira K. Lyons. "It's more of a question mark. Before we go to special session we need to decide what the goals are and what were going to accomplish there."
The Legislature convenes in regular session in February, but Mr. Rowland said he felt the deficit issue was serious enough to call for a special session, perhaps as early as November.
"The governor feels the earlier the problem is addressed, the better," said Dean Pagani, his spokesman. "Obviously the Legislature wants to be involved. Some legislators have complained about a number of cuts proposed by the governor."
Last week, Mr. Rowland outlined a plan to cut increases to several programs in an attempt to stave off what fiscal analysts were predicting would be a $90 million deficit. Legislators were closely examining about $57 million in proposed reductions from the $608 million state surplus, including $14 million that had been earmarked for a mental health initiative and $12 million for a program to reduce traffic congestion.
Kevin Sullivan, the Democratic president pro tem of the State Senate, said today's meeting was less about specifics than about the magnitude of the budget deficit. He stressed that the latest projected shortfall, $300 million, was "the worst-case scenario," and noted reports from some economic analysts that the harsh downturn following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks could be short-lived.
"A special session would be a nightmare," he said. "It would be hugely politicized and I'm concerned about rushing into a series of formal actions that are premature."
But Robert M. Ward, the leader of the Republican minority in the House, said a special session was needed. "If the nature of an emergency is a $200 million to $300 million deficit when the State Constitution requires we adopt a balanced budget, I'd say it calls for it," he said.
Although the governor and several legislators at the meeting said the deficit predictions were no reason to panic, the statistics presented were far from rosy. Income tax revenues, which had been projected to grow by 5 percent, are now expected to be flat by June 30, the end of this fiscal year. An expected increase of 5.5 percent in sales tax revenue is looking more like 3.5 percent, legislators said. The most recent unemployment rate is 3.6 percent for the month of August, up from 3.3 percent in July, according to the State Department of Labor.
At the meeting, the governor told legislators that "everything is on the table" for potential spending cuts. No increase in the state income tax was discussed, but it is possible that proposed tax cuts and exemptions scheduled to take effect next year will be phased in more gradually, Mr. Pagani said.
Under state statute, the governor is authorized to cut up to 5 percent of specific budget accounts, with some exceptions. He requires legislative approval for other cuts, like the spending of the state surplus. The governor has not suggested dipping into the state's $600 million Rainy Day Fund, an emergency reserve, which is currently fully funded. "It's not drizzling," The Associated Press quoted him as saying.
Mr. Rowland said lawmakers erred a decade ago by depleting the fund at the start of a recession. As a result, the state had a $1 billion deficit that led to the much-hated state income tax.
Another meeting with legislative leaders is planned for next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



378 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 NATURAL GAS CLIMBS. Natural gas rose after a report showed a smaller-than-expected increase in inventories. In New York, natural gas for November delivery rose 9.2 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $2.48 per million B.T.U.'s.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks natural gas prices (near-month contract), since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (84%) GAS (FUEL); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



379 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Drop Continues In Inventories 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Wholesale inventories fell for a third consecutive month in August and sales rose, government figures showed today, indicating that companies made progress clearing warehouses before Sept. 11.
 Stockpiles declined 0.1 percent in August, to $298.7 billion, the lowest since June 2000, the Commerce Department said. 
Inventories had fallen 0.9 percent in July. Sales increased for a second consecutive month, led by drugs and petroleum products. 
 The sales rise may not repeat itself in September, when the terrorist attacks halted business, led to job cuts and sapped consumer confidence. As a result, many distributors will probably hesitate to build stockpiles. 
Sales last month by retailers probably showed the smallest gain in at least three decades, analysts said on the eve of company reports. 
Businesses pared inventories by $38.3 billion in the second quarter, the largest drop since the first quarter of 1983. That helped limit economic growth in the quarter to 0.3 percent at an annual rate, the slowest since the first quarter of 1993. Wholesaler sales rose 0.6 percent in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); STATISTICS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (87%); RETAILERS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



380 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: 3 Americans Awarded Nobel for Economics 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Three American economists were awarded the 2001 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science yesterday for their pioneering research in the shortcomings and imperfections of market systems.
 The winners were Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor at Columbia University; George A. Akerlof of the University of California at Berkeley; and A. Michael Spence from Stanford University. 
 Their findings explain, among other things, why consumers view warranties as signals of product quality; why insurance companies vary premiums and offer deductibles; why a used car sells even though it is a lemon. Their theories incorporated "imperfect information" into economics -- a concept at odds with the mainstream view that markets are all-knowing and self-correcting. That is still the emphasis in many Econ 101 textbooks. 
"The three of them really pioneered the view that markets, when confronted with imperfections, may not be the best way to allocate resources," said Alan Krueger, a Princeton University economist. "That changed economics."
Long before they won, Mr. Stiglitz, 58, and Mr. Akerlof, 61, were often mentioned as likely Nobel winners, for work that germinated when they were graduate students together, obtaining their Ph.D.'s in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the late 1960's.
When the call came yesterday morning from the Nobel committee in Stockholm, Mr. Stiglitz said he was getting a cup of coffee in his Morningside Heights apartment. "We switched from coffee to Champagne," he said. 
Mr. Akerlof was asleep in Berkeley. "My first thought was that Joe had won," he said, "and someone was calling to get my reaction."
Mr. Spence, 58, an emeritus professor at Stanford who retired two years ago to become a partner in a venture capital firm, was asleep at his vacation condominium in Hawaii. "I was stunned," he said. 
The Nobel committee, in an award citation calling Mr. Stiglitz's work the broadest of the three, said: "Joseph Stiglitz's many contributions have transformed the way economists think about the working of markets. Together with the fundamental contributions by George Akerlof and Michael Spence, they make up the core of the modern economics of information."
The economists' research, done mostly in the 1960's and 1970's, persuaded all three that government must play a strong role in a market system, to prevent damage from imperfect information. At a news conference at Columbia yesterday, Mr. Stiglitz, the best known of the three, reiterated that view.
Financial markets, he said in offering one example, run on information, and without the Securities and Exchange Commission to enforce full disclosure, people would find themselves purchasing corporate stock without sufficient knowledge to determine a proper value. Management -- and perhaps others selling the stock -- might know of serious shortcomings that were hidden from buyers. If that "asymmetry" happened often enough, stock trading could break down.
"One part of the market knows more than another," Mr. Stiglitz said, "and in a sense imperfect or asymmetric information is at the heart of our work."
Just as imperfect information justifies government intervention, so does it explain various corporate strategies.
Insurance companies, for example, have a hard time distinguishing between the homeowner whose dwelling is a fire hazard and the homeowner less likely to have fire damage. Charging the same high rate to both for substantial coverage would draw more high-risk customers, while low-risk households would be more likely to risk going without insurance. With too many high-risk customers, claims would mount and the insurance company could go broke -- a market failure.
So the companies "intervene." They ration coverage, giving no customer as much as he would like, which encourages homeowners to install fire-safety devices. And they charge high premiums for the most complete coverage, while costumers who consider themselves low risk can choose a high deductible in exchange for a lower premium.
Mr. Stiglitz joined the Columbia faculty in July from Stanford, where he had been a professor since 1988, with time out in the 1990's for service in Washington as chairman of President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and chief economist at the World Bank.
Mr. Akerlof was honored mainly for a 1970 essay, "The Market for Lemons," which the Nobel committee described as "the single most important study in the literature on economics of information."
Mr. Akerlof's insight came out of his observation that nearly every used-car buyer worries whether he or she is overpaying for a defective vehicle. The used-car dealer knows its status but the buyer lacks this information, and too many bad experiences can disrupt the used-car market. The advent of lemon laws helped to prevent this.
Critics argue that Mr. Akerlof's paper, and the findings of information economics in general, lack support in empirical research. "There is no evidence that the cars that are sold are lemons," said Orley Ashenfelter, a Princeton economist. Mr. Akerlof replies that his used-car work "is empirical in the sense that we took the behavior that everyone knows and put it into theory that explains what is involved in markets more generally."
Mr. Spence holds a doctorate in economics from Harvard University, but has not practiced his profession since 1984, when he became dean of the School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard, and in 1990, dean of Stanford's business school. The Nobel award came mainly on the strength of a single paper that Mr. Spence published in 1973 describing "market signals." 
In the pure model of a free market, consumers are presumed to have perfect knowledge, able to accurately tell the differences in quality among, say, various models of refrigerators. Prices would automatically reflect that understanding. But most consumers lack this information, so sellers intervene, offering comprehensive warranties, for example, to signal high quality. "If a seller gave a fancy warranty on a product that broke down a lot," Mr. Spence said, "he could go broke."
Mr. Stiglitz also relied on his research to challenge traditional International Monetary Fund practices that led, he concluded, to unnecessary economic trauma during the Asian financial collapse of the late 1990's.
Because of his repeated criticism of the I.M.F., Mr. Stiglitz found himself forced from his World Bank job last year. But he has not let up. "There were terrible results in Asia," Mr. Stiglitz said at his news conference yesterday. "The I.M.F. is only now changing its view."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Nobel committee called the work of Joseph E. Stiglitz, right, the broadest of the three. (pg. C1); A. Michael Spence, 58, left, from Stanford University, and George A. Akerlof, 61, of the University of California at Berkeley, won the Nobel. (Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INSURANCE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; NOBEL PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RESEARCH; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES; INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA; STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; STIGLITZ, JOSEPH E (PROF); AKERLOF, GEORGE A; SPENCE, A MICHAEL (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



381 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Rally as Worries Over Afghanistan Fighting Ease

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied broadly yesterday as investors showed signs of overcoming their initial nervousness after the military strikes in Afghanistan.
 After watching news coverage of the American airstrikes for three days, "people are starting to get some level of comfort with the way we're handling it," said Stephen J. Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities, an investment bank in San Francisco. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 188.42 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 9,240.86. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 24.24 points, or 2.3 percent, to 1,080.99. 
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, gained 56.07 points, or 3.6 percent, to 1,626.26. And the Nasdaq 100-stock index, comprising the stocks of the largest technology companies, showed even stronger gains, jumping 60.12 points, or 4.83 percent, to 1,304.68.
After the market closed, Yahoo posted a loss and a larger-than-expected decline in its revenue, which mainly come from sales of online advertising. Shares of Yahoo gained 77 cents, to $10.93, before the company issued its report, and rose as high as $11.75 in after-hours trading.
Among the stocks leading the Dow higher were Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, up $3.40, to $101.84; General Motors, up $2.15, to $42.96; United Technologies, up $1.20, to $52.20; and International Paper, up $1.50, to $36.81.
I.B.M.fell 11 cents, to $97.25. Goldman, Sachs reduced its profit forecast for the company.
Investors were looking for signs that the government's efforts to stimulate the economy -- through lower interest rates, spending and tax breaks -- would eventually bring comparably higher profits. There were also signs that investors believed stocks had already been pushed down farther than their earnings would justify.
"The question with the market's recovery and profits recovery is not if, but when," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen, a securities firm. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
By Reuters
Treasury bond prices were mixed yesterday as rising stocks and new Treasury and agency debt sapped the allure of government securities.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32 , to a price of 103 5/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.60 percent from 4.59 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 6/32 , to 100 6/32 . The bond's yield fell to 5.36 percent from 5.37 percent on Tuesday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of four-week bills and 30.5- year inflation index bonds:

(000 omitted in dollar figures

Price: 99.825
High Rate: 2.250
Coupon Yield: 2.285
Low Rate: 2.190
Median Rate: 2.240
Total applied for: $20,654,718
Accepted: $7,359,302
Noncompetitive: $10,489

The 4-week bills mature Nov. 08, 2001.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 98.314
High Yield: 3.465%
Low Yield: 3.300%
Median Yield: 3.420%
Accepted at low price: 79%
Total applied for: $11,156,779
Accepted: $5,000,011
Noncompetitive: $87,644
Interest set at: 3 3/8

The 30.5-year inflation index bond matures April 15, 2029.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June 2001. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); HIJACKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TALIBAN (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); TERRORISM (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); INFLATION (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (52%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 3M CO (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MMM (SWX) (55%); MMM (NYSE) (55%); MMM (FRA) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ;BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



382 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: IN NEW YORK; 
New York Carries On, but Test of Its Grit Has Just Begun

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
Imagine being told a month ago that security checkpoints would be established at the bridges and tunnels leading into Manhattan. Imagine being told a month ago that the police would prevent single-occupant cars from crossing into Midtown or Lower Manhattan on weekday mornings.
 Imagine being told a month ago this morning -- while commuting to work or taking your child to school -- that before noon the World Trade Center would collapse, thousands would die, and New York City would be jolted into the first frenzied stages of a war prompted by terrorist attacks. 
 Imagine all that. And then imagine adapting. 
A month after hijacked jetliners crashed into the twin towers on that blue-sky morning of Sept. 11, New York is carrying on -- not completely and not always prettily, but carrying on. It has become a city in which drab-green National Guard uniforms blend in with the blur of dark blue suits at Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal. A city in which subway trains actually stop at the World Trade Center/Chambers Street station, just a few hundred yards northeast of that mournful place inadequately christened ground zero.
A wonderful paradox has resulted, according to Steven A. Cohen, vice dean of the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. Even with a foreign-born population of about 40 percent, New York is now seen by the rest of the country "as the most American of cities," he said. "We're tough, we're resilient, we fight back, and we're undaunted."
But the test of the city's resilience has only begun. In the current mayoral campaign, which includes a runoff today between the two Democratic candidates, heated words have been exchanged over one candidate's pre-attack suggestion that there are two New Yorks. His words now ring true, though not quite the way he intended.
While most of the city grinds on as before -- though in a state of heightened psychic alert -- the western slice of Lower Manhattan has become an island within an island. Dozens of shops, restaurants and businesses, along with their thousands of employees, struggle to survive in the restricted zone that rings the girder-and-concrete remains of the World Trade Center complex. At the same time, thousands of residents fret over air quality, maneuver past exposed utility lines, and otherwise live in what approximates this country's war zone.
"The fact that our subway system functions, it's great," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, a leading business group. "The lights stay on, we have communications, it's great. But there are so many consequences that we haven't understood yet."
The sensory perception of the many thousands who witnessed the collapse of the twin towers has been affected, she said. "It was not real, yet we were seeing it." And beyond the personal loss of so many dead, there is the physical loss of 13 million square feet of office space, the rough equivalent of Chicago's central business district.
"It's those kinds of things," Ms. Wylde said, "that make you realize: we lost a lot."
Here are the rough estimates of how much, according to Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi: as much as $105 billion over the next two years, including $34 billion in property damage and up to $60 billion in economic costs. Nearly 17,000 people -- flight attendants, restaurant workers, salespeople -- have applied for unemployment benefits as a result of disaster-related job loss; the number is expected to top 100,000 by June. 
In addition, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said this week that the terrorist attack cost the city about $1 billion in lost tax revenues. His successor will soon have to deal with a budget deficit -- perhaps as much as $4 billion -- in addition to the recovery efforts and all those issues that loomed large before the attack, from the paucity of moderately priced housing to a profoundly troubled school system.
A month later, the extraordinary devastation of a 16-acre tract in Lower Manhattan has become almost an accepted condition by a city turning its attention to war. Nearly 260,000 tons of debris, about a fifth of the total, has been carted away, much of it to be pored over in the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island by investigators looking for evidence and body parts. A roaring void has been created in the financial center of the world.
But Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said that he had been surprised by how easily many of the displaced businesses were able to find temporary quarters, and by how quickly some of the damaged buildings were being restored. "Deals or handshakes" have been made for about 6.2 million square feet of office space, much of it in Midtown, he said, while the businesses relocating to New Jersey and Connecticut are signing short-term leases of three and four years.
"A month ago, I would have said to you, 'We need to go buy new buildings,' " he said. "But because of where the economy is going, the majority of the need can be handled with the existing space that we now have. That doesn't mean we shouldn't build more office buildings. But we shouldn't go crazy building office buildings."
Mr. Spinola acknowledged that many who worked in the vicinity of the World Trade Center may resist returning to the scene of an international nightmare. "For the people who saw this firsthand, it's going to be an emotional challenge to go back," he said. "But on the other hand, that's what we have to do."
Initially, the terrorist attack also crippled the city's arteries, particularly its subways. Now, all but seven of the city's subway stations are open, but the isolated damage was significant. For example, parts of the tunnel for the 1 and 9 lines that ran beneath the World Trade Center are gone; transportation officials say that full service will not return for at least two years, but they will not provide cost estimates for repairs.
To help pay for those repairs -- and to make New York whole again -- Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Giuliani are asking the federal government for $54 billion worth of subsidies, tax breaks and incentives. Although some in Congress have already questioned whether the request is a bit bloated, few doubt the need for significant federal assistance to jump-start the city's shellshocked economy.
Significant federal aid, along with the money collected from insurance, is going to go a long way toward hastening the city's recovery, said Dr. Cohen of Columbia. "Obviously, over the short term there's going to be a struggle to recover economically. But I think the long-term outlook is quite good, with billions and billions of dollars in construction priming the pump in a big way."
Dr. Cohen agreed with Mr. Giuliani in saying that as bad as the current economic situation is, it has been worse. "In terms of a one-day event that shook the city to its core, there's never been anything like it," he said. "But during the Depression, over a third of the city was out of work. It doesn't approach that kind of dislocation."
Dr. Cohen's glass-half-full view of a wounded city seems typical. New York has new problems on top of its old ones, from a steep drop in tourism to a soaring rise in traffic congestion, to the pervasive sense that every public building is ripe for the next terrorist attack. But there has emerged a strange, encouraging sense of community within a city of eight million.
"We don't really love each other, and we're too different to feel like we're going to be soul mates with each other," said John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "But there's an underlying identity with the city and its toughness."
And so, a month later, the city pushes on, accepting that a kind of gritty innocence has been lost, that a military presence at its borders is required, and that even the best of recoveries will not bring back the 5,000 dead.
Imagine Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota, a burly, gruff presence in City Hall, comparing the World Trade Center site to Gettysburg yesterday, and calling it "hallowed ground."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 11 about changes in New York City in the month after Sept. 11 misstated a comparison between the amount of office space lost in the terrorist attacks and the space in Chicago's central business district. The loss was 13 million square feet, roughly one-tenth of the Chicago space, not its equivalent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The city refuses to be crippled, but life is forever changed. At the stock exchange, a flag and barricades testified yesterday to the challenges of living and working in New York. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Security checks and travel restrictions have become accepted features of the landscape of New York City. Fans entering Yankee Stadium for last night's playoff game against the Oakland A's were subject to searches. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); BASEBALL (67%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); MAYORS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN COHEN (50%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%) BARRY, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



383 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CONSUMERS; 
Fear Keeps Some Shoppers Away From Mall of America, but a Defiance Remains

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
The giant temple of consumerism called Mall of America plays a central role in the heartland's consciousness and draws huge crowds every day. That is why some people who work and shop here are nervous these days.
 "When you see reports in the media about possible terror targets, Mall of America is right up there," said John, a salesman at Sears who would not allow his last name to be used. "That has to have an effect on people. It has an effect on me. I'm afraid to come in to work myself." 
 Since it opened in 1992, the mall has been a vivid symbol of the United States' long economic boom. Each year 45 million people sample its attractions, which include more than 500 stores and nearly 100 places to eat and drink, along with theaters, night clubs, video arcades and a full-scale amusement park.
With so much on offer, the mall has become a regional attraction. But now, with Americans increasingly worried about the prospect of terrorist attacks, the mall may be suffering from its own popularity. 
Some people are staying away, apparently worried that a place with such big crowds could become a target. Business is down. There is plenty of elbow room along the seemingly endless corridors. In some stores, it is not uncommon to find more sales people than customers.
Mall administrators have not released sales figures for the last few weeks, and there have been no reports of stores closing or laying off employees. But managers concede that better business will depend largely on what happens next both within the United States and abroad.
"The first two weeks after Sept. 11 were atrocious," said Ryan Hauschild, a bartender at one of the mall's taverns. "Business is still bad, but it'll improve if there's some resolution to the situation. If we can put a stop to it and get something good happening, then I think we're all going to be happy."
The mall is in a particularly difficult position because it is not just a place to shop -- it's also a destination. Local people, defined here as those who live within 150 miles, account for about 60 percent of the business. The rest comes from travelers passing through the nearby airport, plus planeloads of shoppers who fly in for daylong or weekend sprees.
"It used to be we'd have 30 or 35 people in the store by 11 o'clock," said Randy Byrne, manager of a shop that sells electronics. "Now we're lucky if we have even 20 at any time during the day."
Mr. Byrne said business would improve as Americans began to feel safe again.
"Assuming there are no more attacks, people will be back by Thanksgiving," he predicted. "Families are getting closer, and that means more Christmas presents."
Although fear of terrorism has evidently kept some people away from Mall of America, others are determined not to let the conflict change their lives.
"I'm not afraid," said Jolene Rossiter, who took her three small children to a party at the mall that was sponsored by Cheerios. "I feel safe here."
This place attracts many mall walkers, mostly older people who come for strolls and coffee before the stores open.
"We still see most of the people we're used to seeing," said Roy Bergman, a mall walker. "I'm not going to change my lifestyle. Besides, if they bomb this place they'll do it when it's full, not early in the morning."
If tighter security has been imposed, it is not easily visible. Shoppers are not checked as they enter, and the number of uniformed security guards does not appear to have increased.
"We haven't really changed much," said Steve Sterrett, chief financial officer of Simon Property Group, which manages the mall. "Malls have always been very public places."
Several shoppers said that hints of future terror attacks, including this week's reports of anthrax cases in Florida, have not frightened them.
Erin Runk, 28, drove half an hour to the mall. He said he was browsing in search of Christmas gift ideas.
"I pay a little more attention to what goes on around me, but if it's going to happen, it's going to happen," Mr. Runk said. "There isn't much I can do unless I actually see guys dumping anthrax into the ventilation pipes. I'm not going to cower at home."
The manager of a news and candy kiosk said customers are staying away because "at least some of them think Mall of America could be a target." At a small cafe, a server said she feared that some places like hers might be forced to close.
Alamo Flags has been the exception. It has sold hundreds of flags, pins, stickers and other patriotic paraphernalia, and is clearly one of the mall's busiest stores.
One morning this week, a Jordanian named Hamzh al-Kayat was behind the counter at Alamo Flags telling customers that although car-sized flags were sold out, larger ones were still available. He said he did not feel uncomfortable and saw no contradiction as an Arab selling American flags. 
"I've had a couple of little problems, but nothing serious," Mr. Kayat said. "I'm very happy with this job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large flags, not shoppers, abounded on Wednesday at Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. Business at the mall, a regional attraction, has dropped since the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. (Sal Skog for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RETAIL SALES (78%); THEATER (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SALES FORCE (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); CLOSINGS (68%); AIRLINES (65%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; SHOPPING CENTERS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

ORGANIZATION: MALL OF AMERICA (BLOOMINGTON, MINN); MALL OF AMERICA (BLOOMINGTON, MINN) 

PERSON: ;KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



384 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Drawn to the Heart of Country Music 

BYLINE:  By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Duncan Houston was strumming his guitar at the Legends Corner bar downtown on the morning of Sept. 11, and he was there again at noon today, in his ponyskin boots and cowboy hat, singing about good times and hard times and love and America.
 "Left a boy, came back a man," he sang, launching into "Some Gave All," a Billy Ray Cyrus tribute to American war veterans from the early 1990's that is suddenly popular again. "Most folks don't understand all the reasons we are free." 
 A busload of country music fans from out of town were just finishing their beers and leaving for the next stop. One of them, Jim Ree, 66, an Oklahoman who fought with the Marines in Vietnam, stopped to explain why country was the only music he wanted to hear these days. 
"Country tells the truth about everything," Mr. Ree said.
Country music, with its roots in pain, sorrow, loss, nostalgia and patriotism, seems closer than ever to the heart of America these days. And Nashville is at the heart of country music.
In the bars and clubs up and down lower Broadway, at Legends, Tootsie's and Robert's Western World, the crowds that disappeared in the first days after Sept. 11 have come back to find a sea of American flags and "God Bless America" signs, and to soak up the songs of Willie Nelson, Hank Williams, George Strait and Garth Brooks. Along Music Row, the big labels are repackaging patriotic classics like LeAnn Rimes's "God Bless America" and Lee Greenwood's "American Patriot."
Mr. Greenwood has been traveling the country singing "God Bless the U.S.A.," his hit single. Just this week Randy Travis released "America Will Always Stand," a song he wrote two days after the attacks. Charlie Daniels came out with a new rendition of his "In America," a Persian Gulf war favorite. And David Ball's "Riding With Private Malone," an ode to a slain Vietnam War veteran, is soaring on the charts. Many of the stars are donating the proceeds from their patriotic songs to the victims of the terrorist attacks, along with the Red Cross and the Salvation Army.
At the same time that people are embracing country music, they are returning to Nashville. Unlike other cities that also depend on tourists as well as conventions and meetings, and are hurting badly with the faltering economy and the reluctance of people to fly, Nashville is bustling this week.
The Opryland hotel, with 2,900 rooms, has about an 80 percent occupancy rate, said Butch Spryidon, the executive vice president of the Nashville Convention and Visitors Bureau. The occupancy rate is slightly higher at the Renaissance Hotel, which has 670 rooms, Mr. Spryidon said.
While business travel is still down, he said, convention visitors abound. The drag racers association, with 5,000 people, is in town, as is the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment, with 3,500 people, the National Safety Association, with 2,500, and the Midwest Roofing Contractors, with 500.
In the first days after the attacks, visitors were scarce. "We went to zero," Mr. Spryidon said.
So, on the eighth day, the visitors' bureau began a promotion, called the Music City, USA Family Getaway, to lure people back to Nashville. The promotion's slogan, left over from the summer: "Nashville, Not Just the Home of Country Music, but the Music of Our Country."
"The very first thing we said was, 'We don't want to look like piranhas or offend anybody,' " Mr. Spryidon said. 
He said that as part of the promotion some hotels cut their rates to as low as $30 a night. The Grand Ole Opry, the Country Music Hall of Fame and other attractions offered discounted tickets.
Nashville had a geographic advantage over some other tourist destinations. It is a place many visitors can drive to.
The visitors are also back in Branson, Mo., the Ozark Mountain village that is also a country music center. In addition to its location, far from what are perceived as the more vulnerable East and West Coast cities, Branson's long-standing emphasis on family entertainment and country music appeals to Americans now, Chamber of Commerce officials and theater managers say.
It is more than patriotism that is drawing people to country music.
"People need to feel a sense of community and that's what country music gives them," said Robert K. Oermann, a country music historian who lives in Nashville. "It's lyrics about real people. It's not just, 'Hey, baby, I love you.' "
Gerry House, the host of a morning show on WSIX-FM, a popular country music station here, said: "People turn to Nashville when they want patriotic songs. When your homeland is threatened, you listen to the music of your homeland."
This is not a time, country music fans say, when people want irreverence, which is rock 'n' roll's specialty. They want the sort of free-flowing emotions -- adult emotions -- that Mr. Houston, 35, who pays the bills by working the graveyard shift at a Borders' books warehouse, was offering in his songs at Legends today. He was also playing in his regular morning slot when the news came of the terrorist attacks. Stunned and grieving, he kept singing, because he did not know what else to do.
"People tend to turn to country music because the songs express the emotions of the common man, and the issues of regular people," said Tony Brown, the president of MCA/ Nashville Records, and a musician who played with Elvis Presley. "Pop music is about fashion. Country music is about real life."
For 35 years Presley's Country Jubilee, the oldest theater on Branson's main drag, has closed its show with a patriotic number. "It just happens to fit more with the mood of the country now," said Steve Presley, whose family owns the theater.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Duncan Houston has provided a balm to many country music fans who flock to the Legends Corner bar in Nashville to hear his blend of songs about good times, bad times and patriotism.; Ernest Tubb Record Shop in Nashville displays patriotic CD's. (Photographs by Michael Clancy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (84%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (83%); TERRORISM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); VETERANS (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); SONG WRITING (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (68%); HIJACKING (67%); MISSING PERSONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); TOURISM (61%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MUSIC; TERRORISM 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (87%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NASHVILLE (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



385 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Yahoo Cuts Sales Forecast And Is Considering Layoffs
In the face of a dismal advertising market, Yahoo said that it barely met its forecasts for revenue and profit for the third quarter, and it sharply cut its sales forecast for the fourth quarter.
 Previously, Yahoo had predicted a rebound in its sales in the fourth quarter, to as much as $250 million, but it said its revenue would be in the same $160 million to $180 million range it had predicted for the third quarter. As a result, Yahoo is considering further staff cuts on top of a round of layoffs earlier this year. Shares of Yahoo rose 77 cents, to $10.93. Page C4. 

Stocks Post a Broad Rally
Stocks rallied broadly as investors showed signs of overcoming their initial nervousness after the military strikes in Afghanistan. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 188.42 points, or 2.1 percent, to 9,240.86. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 24.24 points, or 2.3 percent, to 1,080.99. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, gained 56.07 points, or 3.6 percent, to 1,626.26. C10.

Motorola to Eliminate 7,000 Jobs
Motorola plans to eliminate 7,000 more jobs and quashed hopes on Wall Street that it was about to return to profitability. C4.

Bayer to Make More Anthrax Drug
Bayer, the German drug company, said that it would increase production of the antibiotic Cipro, the only medicine specifically approved for the treatment of inhaled anthrax. C2.

U.S. to Appeal Trade Ruling on Taxes
The United States and Europe have failed to settle a multibillion-dollar dispute over tax laws, forcing the Bush administration to appeal a crucial trade ruling soon before global trade talks begin in November. C15.

Aid Approved for Airlines in Europe
The European Commission said that it would permit member states to help European airlines recover from the turmoil after the attacks on Sept. 11, but it ruled out further assistance for airlines whose problems predated the attacks. World Business, Section W.

Microsoft Denies Hindering Inquiry
Microsoft denied that it misled the European Commission in its antitrust investigation into the company. The Wall Street Journal, citing a confidential European Commission document, reported that the commission contended that Microsoft misled investigators and sought to obstruct the case. The article also said that, according to documents, antitrust regulators might seek a large fine from Microsoft and demand that it drop some features from its Windows software. Mario Monti, the European competition commissioner, refused to comment on the document but dismissed speculation that the commission would fine Microsoft heavily. C4.

Profit Decreases 17% at PepsiCo
PepsiCo said that its profit fell 17 percent in the third quarter because of costs related to the purchase of Quaker Oats. C2.

Wholesale Inventories Fall 0.1%
Wholesale inventories fell 0.1 percent in August, the third consecutive monthly decline, government figures showed, indicating that companies made progress clearing warehouses before Sept. 11. C15.

Wider Deficit Seen in Indonesia
The International Monetary Fund agreed that Indonesia's government would be forced to run a wider budget deficit than planned next year. World Business, Section W.

Balancing Supply and Demand in Air
Economists who study airlines say it is simplistic to argue that the carriers are always in trouble. The industry is not exceptionally profitable, but makes reasonable returns. Still, even under normal circumstances the business presents definite challenges to managers, especially in balancing supply and demand. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,240.86 up 188.42Nasdaq composite -- 1,626.26 up 56.0710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.60% up 0.01The euro -- $0.9107 down 0.0023The dollar -- 120.39 yen up 0.15 Graph shows Yahoo share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); LAYOFFS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (91%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ANTHRAX (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (85%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (70%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); TAX LAW (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); PEPSICO INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (93%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); PEP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



386 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Truckers' Drive to City Is Far From Leisurely 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: BORDENTOWN, N.J., Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Truck drivers have a long list of grievances with New York City.
 The roads are old and serpentine. The traffic is snail-like. The drivers are discourteous. There is always construction. The signs are faulty. And the tolls -- tariffs, as they call them -- are severe. 
 The city and, by connection, Long Island, were always considered by truck drivers as places to be avoided. Now, with the high security at the tunnels and bridges since the World Trade Center attack, the worst place to drive in the country has gotten worse.
"Man, it took me four and a half hours to go round trip from the George Washington Bridge to Kennedy Airport, and that was on a Sunday afternoon," said Evan Perron, a trucker who brought a load from Chicago and was eating a sirloin at the lunch counter of Petro Stopping Center, 50 miles south of the city and one of the largest truck stops on the East Coast.
"It cost me $98 and took me all day to drive 20 miles," Mr. Perron said.
The average pay for a company driver is about 34 cents a mile. By federal law, a trucker is allowed to work no more than 10 straight hours, then rest at least 8 hours.
With the police and troops inspecting cargo moving through New York City, too many trips to Brooklyn and Long Island will add up to destitution.
"I just ain't going to New York, period," said David Matheny, hunched over his coffee mug.
There are many truck drivers like Mr. Matheny who are avoiding New York. According to the Port Authority, the average daily one-way truck traffic over the George Washington Bridge and the Lincoln Tunnel, since Sept. 11, is 20,500 vehicles -- an increase of 1,700 trucks a day.
But the Holland Tunnel, which averaged 4,000 trucks a day before the attack, is closed coming into the city from New Jersey.
If possible, drivers are avoiding New York City on their way to Connecticut and points north.
But make no mistake, these men and women who hail from the hinterlands like Georgia and Nebraska and Wisconsin will not abandon New York. Even though the city is bad for trucks, it still stands in their hearts as the capital of their country and the world.
"It just breaks your heart and makes you angry," said Phil Johnson, 63, who said that he had been driving for too long. "I'll tell you the truth: when I went over the George Washington Bridge, I'd slow down and stare at those towers in wonderment. It was really something."
Donald Broughton, the senior transportation analyst for A. G. Edwards and Sons, an investment brokerage house in St. Louis, estimated that it cost a trucking company as much as $100 an hour for a truck to be idling in traffic.
"The rate was always a premium to go to New York," Mr. Broughton said. "In light of the security, that premium will go even higher and ultimately that will be passed on to the consumer."
Though the company may charge more, there is little chance that the driver will get paid more, he said.
It might cost them, but the drivers promised that New York would not go hungry.
"I support the security 100 percent," Mr. Perron said. "We're Americans and we're all going to be sacrificing."
Coming to the city will be a sacrifice. The average driver will make $45,000 a year. But to earn it, a driver must be on the road 28 days before getting a weekend off. If the wheels are not moving, that driver is as good as broke.
"The economy was bad before any of this happened," said Julie Baker. "We're the people who know, since we're pulling it."
"Yep," one old-timer added. "If it gets any worse, they're going to lay the hands off the clock."
The men and women sat drinking coffee, and many smoked cigarettes. Their discussion went from the Koran to the Crusades to the game of geopolitics.
Those who normally wear the stars and bars had those Confederate flags covered with pins of the stars and stripes. Most of those who wore the stars and stripes had an earlier stint in the military.
About the only truckers getting paid not to move were the contract drivers for the Federal Emergency Management Administration, who have been sitting idle in the Petro parking lot since the day of the disaster. 
"We call ourselves the mushroom brigade, since we've been planted right here," said Tom Till, 51, of Augusta, Ga. "I felt good to be called upon. I thought I was going to be able to help in some way. Maybe there's still a chance, but I miss my wife."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trucks are often being searched before crossing the city's bridges and tunnels, costing drivers money but not deterring their patriotism. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (92%); TRUCKING (79%); TRUCK SAFETY (79%); HIJACKING (79%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); WEATHER (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIRLINES (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; FINANCES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



387 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Schundler and McGreevey Meet In Combative New Jersey Debate 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Bret D. Schundler laced into James E. McGreevey last night in a spirited first debate between the candidates for governor of New Jersey, saying that Mr. McGreevey would raise taxes if elected and suggesting that he lacked the courage to say no to the many groups that have endorsed his campaign.
 Mr. McGreevey, meanwhile, questioned his Republican rival's honesty and straightforwardness with the electorate, saying that Mr. Schundler's proposals, like cutting taxes and eliminating tolls on the Garden State Parkway, would cost $3 billion that the state does not have, and would do grave damage to New Jersey's public schools. 
 "I can't get rid of the tolls in nine months," Mr. McGreevey said.
"Respectfully, neither can Mr. Schundler. The difference is, I'm saying it. I believe at the end of the day, people want a governor who's going to be honest with them."
Throughout the hourlong encounter, held at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, Mr. McGreevey, who has a healthy lead in the polls, appeared more at ease, though he seemed to strain to add levity to the debate, joking at one point that his mother was "saying rosaries for a good economy."
But if Mr. McGreevey's jokes fell flat, the glowering Mr. Schundler was deadly serious. He began the debate with opening remarks in which he promised to combat terrorism by working closely with "my friend President Bush," and ended by invoking a horror that still haunts some New Jerseyans: the 1990 tax increases of the last Democratic governor.
"This man is worse than Jim Florio," Mr. Schundler said.
The debate touched on a broad range of issues familiar to New Jersey voters, from abortion and gun control to racial profiling and suburban sprawl. On auto insurance, the issue that nearly carried Mr. McGreevey to victory over former Gov. Christie Whitman in 1997, Mr. McGreevey said that New Jersey's insurance rates remained the nation's highest. But he demurred when invited by a panelist to pledge not to run for re-election if the state still tops that list in four years.
"Ultimately, that'll be the voters' decision," he said. "But I'm determined to get it done."
Much of the debate, however, focused on education, where the two men differ radically. Mr. McGreevey, who has the backing of New Jersey's teachers' union, promises to fix the public schools, while Mr. Schundler, the former mayor of Jersey City, favors school choice, and has proposed shifting state money, through tax cuts and scholarships, into private schools.
Mr. McGreevey promised to improve third-grade literacy, and said that for the state's failing, neediest school districts, "we need benchmarks of accountability, we need a governor who is going to work with parents, with principals, to ensure that we meet those benchmarks. "And I say to those failing school districts," he added, "meet your new best friend."
But Mr. Schundler retorted: "The accountability he talks about will still be accountability to politicians, who are concerned about their next election more than anything else.
"I have always talked about trying to have parental accountability, because parents love their children. They are not worried about keeping some organized interest group happy so they can get its endorsement for the next election." 
The two candidates fenced frequently on taxes and spending. Mr. Schundler ridiculed Mr. McGreevey for proposing a $200,000 income limit for homeowners to receive the New Jersey Saver property-tax rebate. Mr. Schundler said: "Now, there is $22 billion worth of spending he could cut, and he wasn't willing to cut any of the spending. All he is willing to cut is the tax relief rebate money."
Mr. Schundler added that he alone had pledged not to increase taxes.
But Mr. McGreevey responded by saying that after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, "I think it's irresponsible of a government official to say 'under any circumstances,' to make that kind of commitment."
Mr. McGreevey added that his own proposals had been "rational and reasonable," while Mr. Schundler, he said, had made "three billion dollars' worth of promises."
"The point is this," Mr. McGreevey said. "I believe government has to live within its means."
The buildup for this debate was considerable, after a month in which the candidates mainly tiptoed around each other and the public, unsure just how to re-engage in the nasty business of politicking so soon after the terrorist attacks. And at times, both candidates sounded almost too well-rehearsed, each reciting lines from the television commercials that he had been running.
But there was plenty of off-the-cuff give-and-take.
Mr. Schundler, who is largely running on his record as mayor of Jersey City from 1992 until this June, repeatedly attacked Mr. McGreevey for raising property taxes in Woodbridge. Mr. McGreevey responded by saying he had been re-elected in 1999 with 83 percent of the vote. And he alluded to reports yesterday that a top state official had written to Mr. Schundler's successor, Glenn D. Cunningham, and accused Mr. Schundler of unsound financial practices.
"I would ask Mr. Schundler to ask Mayor Cunningham how grateful he is for the $54 million deficit you left him," Mr. McGreevey said.
Mr. Schundler, who has called the state official's letter a politically motivated, inaccuracy-laden hatchet job, fired back that Mr. McGreevey apparently did not grasp Jersey City's true financial position. "I wonder if Jim understands the difference between a deficit and debt," he said.
And when Mr. McGreevey attacked him for having said over the summer that he would sign into law a bill allowing people to carry concealed firearms, Mr. Schundler said, "Jim McGreevey has been using all of his special-interest money to lie about my record."
But Mr. McGreevey, who pleaded unsuccessfully for more time to read aloud quotations from several newspapers backing him up, answered back: "Bret, you can run, but you can't hide."

GRAPHIC: Photos: James E. McGreevey, Democratic candidate for governor of New Jersey, left, and Bret D. Schundler, the Republican nominee, at a debate yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. D1); The candidates' supporters tried to outshout one another before the debate yesterday, at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark. (Associated Press)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SCHOOL CHOICE (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); SUBURBS (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (62%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (62%); TEACHER UNIONS (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (52%); RACE & RACISM (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%); RACIAL PROFILING (50%) DEBATING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) HALBFINGER, DAVID M; SCHUNDLER, BRET D; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



388 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Penn Station Faces Delay Of Expansion 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
The attack on New York City has claimed -- at least temporarily -- one of the more celebrated development projects of recent years: an ambitious plan to expand Pennsylvania Station into a vast new glass-covered ticketing hall and concourse in the General Post Office on Eighth Avenue.
 The United States Postal Service has told New York State officials that it would suspend activity on the redevelopment project because of its own financial straits and because the General Post Office, or the James A. Farley Building, is now needed to house operations from 90 Church Street and other postal stations in Lower Manhattan that were damaged or disrupted on Sept. 11. 
 An almost balletic alignment of city, state and federal agencies -- to say nothing of Amtrak, the Postal Service and the private developers -- is required for the $788 million project to go forward. Therefore, stumbling blocks can imperil its entire future, particularly at a time of competing demands for billions of dollars to rebuild the city's economy and infrastructure. 
So officials in Gov. George E. Pataki's administration, which has long championed the Pennsylvania Station project, did nothing to disguise their anger yesterday.
"Any substantial delay is problematic," said Michael Marr, a spokesman for the Empire State Development Corporation, which is overseeing the project. "It's fair to say the post office has forced a substantial delay upon us."
He added: "It's not just the time delay we're worried about. We're worried about jeopardizing the entire funding structure for the project."
After praising the helping hand offered by so many Americans to New York in its time of need, Mr. Marr said, "Only the Postal Service has extended a hand trying to take something back that it had previously agreed to provide to New Yorkers."
For its part, the Postal Service said in a statement yesterday that because it was "facing severe financial constraints on capital expenditures," it had expressed its concerns about the feasibility of the Pennsylvania Station redevelopment project long before the attack.
But as it happened, the vital Church Street Station at 90 Church Street was severely damaged on Sept. 11, the Postal Service said. It sits across West Broadway from 7 World Trade Center, the third tower to collapse that day.
Operations from Church Street have been moved to the Farley Building, between 31st and 33rd Streets, an enormous mail-handling factory behind its expansive colonnade, broad staircase and inscribed entablature ("Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds").
"It may require several months to evaluate and complete repairs to the Church Street facility," the Postal Service said in its statement. "Normal access to the facility may take even longer. In the meantime, space in the Farley Building has been pressed into service to enable vital mail services in Lower Manhattan to continue."
The Farley Building, an official city landmark, was designed by McKim, Mead & White, architects of the original Pennsylvania Station, which was razed in the early 1960's. It sits directly above Amtrak's underground passenger platforms, which made it an appealing choice to station planners.
But the Postal Service has struggled with state officials over how much space it should be expected to give up in the Farley Building. Its position was probably stated most succinctly three years ago by one of its vice presidents, John F. Kelly, who said, "It's just as important to the city to have viable postal service as it is to have a viable train station."
Despite the current impasse, the Postal Service said yesterday that it was "continuing discussions with the interested parties." And Mr. Marr said ground could be broken within four months if the Postal Service agreed. The station would take about five years to build.
A great shell-shaped, trellis-work glass canopy would be built between the original Farley Building and a later addition, creating a 300-foot-long midblock ticketing hall. Concourses would be created in the atrium of the original Farley Building, which is now used as a work floor for letter carriers. There would also be 100,000 square feet of retail space.
The project would be developed on a 35-year lease by Penn Station Ventures, a partnership of the Staubach Company and Fraport A. G.-Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide. The architects include Skidmore, Owings & Merrill; Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates; and RTKL Associates.
"We're making a great gateway to a great city," one of the architects, Hugh Hardy, said yesterday. "You could make a case that it's more important than ever." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); TERRORISM (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; RAILROADS; POSTAL SERVICE; PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



389 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Scripps Profit Falls 36% 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The E. W. Scripps Company, owner of the Home & Garden Television cable network, said today that third-quarter profit fell 36 percent after a decline in advertising sales that was aggravated by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 Profit dropped to $22.6 million, or 28 cents a share, from $35.4 million, or 45 cents, in the quarter a year earlier. 
Sales declined 17 percent to $342.1 million. 
 Scripps -- also the owner of 21 daily newspapers, including the Rocky Mountain News in Denver, and 10 television stations -- lost profit as advertisers cut spending to cope with the slowing economy.
After the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, most of Scripps's network-affiliated television stations broadcast 36 hours of coverage with no advertisements, the company said in a statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (88%); TERRORISM (87%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: E W SCRIPPS CO (95%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SCRIPPS, E W, CO 

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



390 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: London Journal; 
This Mild Schoolboy, Lost in the Islamic Inferno

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Until he encountered Muslim refugees from Bosnia's war in the early 1990's, Ahmed Omar Sheikh seemed immune to the crucible fires of Islamic extremism.
 The British teenager had just won top grades in high school examinations and secured a coveted place at the London School of Economics to study statistics. His avowed ambition was to graduate and work in the City, London's equivalent of Wall Street. People who knew him described him as a thoughtful and thorough young man, an accomplished chess player and class monitor with a liking for athletics and a readiness to help out. 
 Then, sometime in late 1993, he disappeared, abandoning his academic career to resurface in 1994 in an altogether different guise.
Mr. Sheikh reappeared as one of a gang who kidnapped three British tourists in India on behalf of a Kashmiri separatist group, Harkat ul-Mujahedeen -- an organization now viewed as one of the myriad Islamic groups possibly linked to Osama bin Laden, America's prime suspect in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. The young Briton was shot and captured in a subsequent Indian police raid, then jailed.
In 1999, Mr. Sheikh regained his freedom -- one of three terrorists released by India to end the hijacking of an Indian Airlines airliner to Afghanistan. At the time, according to the British news media, Indian authorities offered him free passage back to London, but he declined -- and disappeared once more.
For years now, and particularly since Sept. 11, his associates, friends and family have wrestled with the question of what persuades young men like Mr. Sheikh to abandon middle-class security for the perilous and violent life of terrorism.
It is a question becoming particularly acute for Britain as a whole, now that it is America's most prominent ally in the war against Mr. bin Laden's brand of terrorism. This country is home to 1.5 million Muslims, many of them with ties to a former colony, Pakistan.
What seems to have begun the change for Mr. Sheikh was a visit to the Balkans in the winter of 1992-93 as a volunteer with a London-based Muslim charity, Convoy of Mercy.
According to Asad Khan, the charity's founder, the 19-year-old Mr. Sheikh fell ill before he could journey with the rest of the group into warring Bosnia. The mild-mannered, bespectacled teenager was left behind in the Croatian port of Split, where he went alone to meet Bosnian refugees and heard their harrowing tales of rape and ethnic cleansing meted out by Serbs who often depicted themselves as Orthodox Christians on a crusade against Islam.
"Any Muslim would be incensed, but it affects some people in one way and others in another," Mr. Khan said. "The young men who left Oxford and Cambridge in the 1930's to fight the Franco regime in Spain, were they terrorists?"
Mr. Khan's explanation strikes George Paynter as about the only plausible one. Mr. Paynter taught the ambitious teenager economics between 1991 and 1992 at Forest School, a private school in east London where tuition runs around $12,000 a year. He remembered his pupil as "a fairly exceptional student," pleasant and personable enough, liked and trusted sufficiently to be made head of his school house and a school monitor. His classmates included Nasser Hussain, the English cricket captain.
Mr. Sheikh's parents have refused since his release in 1999 to discuss their son with the news media. But associates said they are well-to-do clothing merchants from among the many Pakistanis who have migrated to Britain. Like many of the offspring of such families, Mr. Sheikh grew up partly here and partly in Pakistan. 
"He would always give of his best," Mr. Paynter said. "He was ambitious."
Sometime in the fall of 1992, as the young Mr. Sheikh began his studies in the sprawling London School of Economics, he attended a talk by Mr. Khan, and volunteered for a trip to Bosnia.
After hearing tales of the worst of the Bosnian war, Mr. Sheikh returned to England, occasionally raising funds for Mr. Khan's charity. 
By the time college resumed in October 1993, according to the London School of Economics, he had dropped out. How he moved from Britain to India, and into terrorism, remains unclear.
At least three other young British Muslims have disappeared into Islamic radicalism, according to Rafique Malik, deputy mayor of the northern town of Burnley. Two of the three were killed near Kabul two years ago, having apparently joined the Taliban, Mr. Malik said.
A third, Anwar Khan, 25, fought for the Taliban until he was captured by the Northern Alliance. 
Since those three youths disappeared, Muslim leaders in Burnley and other parts of northeastern England have barred a fundamentalist imam from north London, Abu Hamza al-Masri, from preaching in their mosques. "He spoke only hatred, hatred of America and the West," Mr. Malik said.
What, though, had been the attraction of the Taliban for these highly educated young men? "It's something inside the person, whether they are influenced by a teacher, or a book they read or a specific experience that could be different," Mr. Malik said.
"A lot of people brown, white, red or pink are not happy, despite enormous wealth," Mr. Malik said. "You have thousands of people who are disillusioned, disenchanted with society. So people's souls are searching for a utopia and people thought the Taliban were instrumental in creating that utopia and that was the basic attraction."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ahmed Omar Sheikh in a New Delhi hospital in 1994 after a scuffle with prison guards. He was jailed for his role in a kidnapping carried out by Islamic militants. He had dropped out of the London School of Economics. (News Group Newspapers Ltd.); The young Mr. Sheikh at the London School of Economics. (Times Newspapers Ltd.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REFUGEES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); BOARD GAMES (70%); CHARITIES (67%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; KIDNAPPING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%) COWELL, ALAN; SHEIKH, AHMED OMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); KASHMIR (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (78%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CROATIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ASIA (79%); SPAIN (67%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN; INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



391 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION; 
More Arrests and Charges In Assault on Terror Rings

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The assault in Europe on the network believed to be behind the terror attacks in the United States continued today, with the arrest of four people in Italy and Germany and charges brought against four people suspected of being Islamic militants in France.
 The action came one day after police in Ireland detained four men they suspect of possible links to Osama Bin Laden, the Saudi fugitive who is the prime suspect in the attacks in the United States. 
 The Italian interior minister, Claudio Scajola, announced the detention of three men in Milan who are suspected of recruiting volunteers for terrorist training camps run by Mr. bin Laden in Afghanistan. They were identified by news agencies as Lased bin Heni of Libya, and Riyadh Jelassi and Muhammad bin Belgacem Awadi, both of Tunisia. 
Mr. Scajola said a fourth individual was detained by the police in Munich, suspected of having cooperated with the group in Milan. No further details were given.
The arrests in Milan were made by police officers who raided an apartment in the early morning hours with a warrant to detain five men suspected of working for Mr. bin Laden's network, an Italian official said. Two men for whom warrants were issued were detained and a third was held for possession of false documents. Officials said the three other men who were sought had apparently fled Italy.
The group in Milan was working to recruit men for training in Afghanistan, Mr. Scajola told reporters in Rome. He said the group was suspected of being supported by Mr. bin Laden and had been under surveillance for some time. He did not elaborate.
The action by the Italian authorities was part of an antiterrorist sweep by a Milan prosecutor, Stefano Dambruoso, that led in April to the arrest of five other men with potential links to Mr. bin Laden. 
One of the men detained by Mr. Dambruoso in April, Essid Sami ben Khemais, a Tunisian, is suspected by the police in Spain of having met there last year with Mohamed Atta, the hijacker of one plane that rammed the World Trade Center. Mr. Atta traveled to Spain on two occasions before the Sept. 11 attacks, and the Spanish authorities suspect the two men may have met there.
Spain, with a sizable North African and Arab population, has been used in the past as a point of entry and a temporary refuge for groups involved in terrorism. Mr. Scajola made his remarks after a meeting in Rome with the Spanish interior minister, Mariano Rajoy. Spanish officials have said Mr. Atta spent two weeks in Spain in July, after arriving there from Florida, though a meeting with Mr. ben Khemais would have had to take place during an earlier visit.
The police activities represent a highly visible effort to crack down on Islamic radicals across Europe. In Ireland, the two men arrested were Zaid Haich, an Algerian, and Abdul Qadir, from Libya, who are suspected of using charitable organizations in Dublin to funnel money to supporters of Mr. bin Laden. The Irish economic boom of recent years has greatly increased the number of people of Arab descent who have come seeking jobs.
Two other men, Abrahim Bazir and Muhammad al-Masrati, both of Libyan descent, were also detained. Mr. Bazir is a naturalized citizen of Ireland who has lived there for more than two decades. The Irish police said the four men, all in their 20's and 30's, were suspected of providing money and false documents to Islamic terrorists operating in Europe.
The charges brought in France were the result of activities to prevent violence at a soccer game on Saturday between teams from France and Algeria, a French official said. Acting on information obtained through telephone taps, the French police arrested the men in their homes in Paris suburbs, seizing weapons, ammunition, bulletproof vests and a manual for making explosives, the official said.
It was the first time teams from France and Algeria met in soccer since Algeria obtained its independence from the French in 1962. But the game had to be interrupted after large numbers of Algerian fans poured out of the stands and onto the field.
The French declined to identify all the men, who were charged with conspiring to carry out terrorist acts. But one is named Nassredine Mamache, who was put on trial last month together with 23 other individuals whom the French charge with supplying weapons to the Armed Islamic Group, radicals who carried out a wave of bombings in Paris in 1995.
Prosecutors in that case have accused Mr. Mamache of being a member of an extremist Islamic group, Takfir wal Hijira, a movement with roots in Egypt that is believed to have links to Mr. bin Laden. There appeared to be no direct connection between the French action and the attacks in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three men suspected of ties to Osama bin Laden were held yesterday. They are, from top, Lased bin Heni, Riyadh Jelassi, and Muhammad bin Belgacem Awadi. (Associated Press); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); RELIGION (72%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); CHARITIES (67%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (92%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (94%); SPAIN (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ITALY; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



392 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: GLOBAL NETWORK; 
U.S. Advisers May Aid Philippine Antiterror Effort

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
A senior Philippine official said yesterday that the United States planned to send a "sizable" contingent of military advisers to the Philippines in the next few weeks to help it crackdown on terrorist groups suspected of having ties to Osama bin Laden.
 The official, Roilo Golez, the national security adviser, said the team would provide training, intelligence, and equipment to local troops, which have been battling a Muslim insurgency on the southern island of Mindanao. 
 "We will make a comprehensive evaluation of the situation and study the need for special equipment," Mr. Golez said. 
American officials in Washington said on Tuesday that terrorists tied to Mr. bin Laden's Al Qaeda network and based in the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia would be among the likely targets for United States action.
Mr. Golez noted that American advisers trained some Philippine troops in counterterrorism tactics earlier this year. That company of soldiers was deployed in Basilan, an island near Mindanao that is a stronghold of the Abu Sayyaf, a radical Muslim group suspected of having ties to Al Qaeda.
Mr. Golez also said that the advisers would not be involved in combat against the Abu Sayyaf militants. Philippine soldiers have begun a campaign against the group, which is holding 17 people, including 2 Americans, as hostages.
Although Philippine officials acknowledge that their country has been a haven for groups linked to Mr. bin Laden, the question is whether it remains one. 
They hope to learn whether other terrorist organizations exist in Manila -- scrutinizing a handful of people and companies that had links to Al Qaeda in the mid-1990's, when the city was used as a base for anti-American terrorism.
"They could be sleepers," said Mr. Golez, who is overseeing the investigation. "When things get hot, they lie low. When things quiet down, they re-emerge."
Mr. Golez said the investigation was at an early stage. He cautioned that some of the most tantalizing leads -- including a report that two suspected hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks, Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, spent time at a resort north of Manila -- could prove to be dead ends.
But officials say they hope for some breakthroughs with the involvement of the United States. The Philippine president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, said it would strengthen her country's own campaign against terrorism, which has been hampered by political turmoil in the capital.
"Every dark cloud has a silver lining, and that's the silver lining," Mrs. Arroyo said in an interview last week. "We expect to have more international cooperation in our efforts."
Samuel K. Tan, the head of the Muslim studies program at the University of the Philippines and a native of Basilan, said, "Osama bin Laden would have found many willing recruits in Basilan," where most inhabitants are impoverished and disenfranchised politically.
"There is a correspondence between what they think and what bin Laden seeks to propagate," he said.
The Abu Sayyaf group, which is named after a famous Afghan warrior, split from the Moro National Liberation Front and its more radical splinter group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. Army officials say the Moro Islamic Liberation Front also received money from Al Qaeda; the group denies it.
With the Moro Islamic Liberation Front now in peace talks with Manila, the Abu Sayyaf group is the last major separatist organization still fighting. Some officials here claim that with its growing isolation and lack of fresh financing from Al Qaeda, its days as a terrorist threat are numbered.
The group, which wants an independent Islamic state in Mindanao, has waged a hit-and-run battle with Philippine troops since 1991, when it announced itself by bombing a cargo ship in Zamboanga City. It has about 1,200 members, 450 of them armed, and its ranks are growing.
Terrorism in the Philippines is linked to a Muslim insurgency that has flared for decades in this predominantly Roman Catholic country. Impoverished economically and disenfranchised politically, the people living in the jungles of Mindanao and nearby islands have become more receptive to Islamic extremism.
Lacking everything but fervor, the rebels sought financing from Muslim militants abroad. Officials believe that Abu Sayyaf got seed money from a brother-in-law of Mr. bin Laden, Mohammed Jamal Khalifa, who lived in Manila in the early 1990's. Mr. Khalifa, who set himself up as an exporter of rattan furniture, became known as a generous benefactor of Islamic causes.
"He built up the good will of the community through charity and then turned segments of the population into agents," Mr. Golez said.
Officials say that Mr. Khalifa's companies received large deposits from outside the country. He donated some of the money to build mosques and schools on Basilan.
Starting in 1988, he also made frequent trips to the island, said the former governor of Basilan, Gerry A. Salapuddin. Mr. Salapuddin became suspicious of Mr. Khalifa's activities because he avoided the local government and the usual stops for visiting Muslim benefactors.
Mr. Salapuddin said he confronted Mr. Khalifa in Manila, demanding that he coordinate his activities with local authorities. Mr. Khalifa, he said, was evasive about what he was doing in Basilan. But Mr. Salapuddin noted that his visits coincided with the emergence of the Abu Sayyaf.
Officials here believe that the group's ties to Mr. Khalifa ended in 1993, after he left the Philippines. He was arrested by the Saudi Arabian government after the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Golez said he thought Mr. Khalifa's companies and charities had been dormant since 1995. Some may have changed their name or been temporarily shut down. But that does not mean they could not plant the seeds for future terrorism.
"There's no evidence they're here," Mr. Golez said. "Likewise, there's no evidence they're not here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philippine Muslims opposed to the airstrikes on Afghanistan prayed before a rally yesterday at the American Embassy in Manila. American officials say some radical Philippine groups have ties to Osama bin Laden. (Pat Roque/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (94%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HIJACKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); MISSING PERSONS (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (82%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%) LANDLER, MARK; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PHILIPPINES

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



393 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Can Pakistan's Leader Hold On? 

BYLINE:  By Mushahid Hussain; Mushahid Hussain, a former editor and legislator, was Pakistan's information minister from 1997 to 1999.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
With Pakistan's pro-Taliban policy buried in the wreckage of the World Trade Center, President Pervez Musharraf has struggled to put Pakistan back on track and restore the badly bruised relationship with the United States. Joining the antiterrorist coalition may prove to be a fateful choice, one that opens onto a future of more difficult choices.
 Mr. Musharraf's declaration yesterday that "no extremist activity will be tolerated in any quarter of Pakistan" came in response to serious anti-American protests. On the same day, one radical Pakistani Islamist leader vowed to send 10,000 warriors "against U.S. and all the infidel forces." Soldiers were deployed and sandbag bunkers set up here in the capital. A poll showed 62 percent of Pakistanis opposing involvement in the war against Osama bin Laden and the Taliban. Even Mr. Musharraf's grip on his own armed forces has been called into question. 
 Yet Mr. Musharraf has tried to give an optimistic view of Pakistani support for the American-led effort. Pakistani politics has been a delicate game for many years, but never more so than now. During the past decade, Pakistan's policies were driven by the pursuit of an elusive balance. A basically friendly government on its west (Afghanistan) was seen as countering the perceived threat from the east (India). With a weak economy and a polarized citizenry, Pakistan spread itself thin, simultaneously seeking to preserve its security, promote an isolated Afghan regime and protect Pakistan's long-standing claim on Kashmir.
Now, with the bombing campaign in Afghanistan, Mr. Musharraf has to separate the war on terrorism from any perception of supporting an attack against fellow Muslims. The backlash from the religious right was expected. Most of the Taliban leaders had studied at seminaries in Pakistan. They share an ideological affinity with many Pakistani clerics and an ethnic bond with Pakistan's 20 million Pashtuns. The biggest anti-American demonstrations have taken place in Peshawar and Quetta. These cities, capitals of the provinces where most of Pakistan's Pashtuns reside, also have the largest concentration of Afghan refugees, who number about 2.2 million. Pakistan's aversion to the Northern Alliance is rooted in this demographic reality, since the alliance is made up of non-Pashtun groups.
Mr. Musharraf also has to contend with other critics, including skeptics in his own military constituency. They see an American pattern of shifting alliances, short memories and a pronounced tendency to forget its friends when it tires of them.
In this campaign against terrorism, the prospects for Pakistan are as hazardous as those for Afghanistan. Pakistan's real nightmare concerns the war's aftermath. Once the Americans are done with Afghanistan and depart, will Pakistan again be left to clear the debris? Refugees and a sprawling culture of Kalashnikovs, narcotics, sectarian terrorism: all these were the unwelcome gifts of the last Pakistani-American effort in Afghanistan.
Serving as the frontline state from 1979 to 1989, Pakistan helped engineer an American triumph in the last battle of the cold war. But with the mission accomplished, the United States left in an unseemly hurry. The 1990 sanctions -- intended to prevent Pakistan from acquiring a nuclear capability -- were the parting kick. Mr. Musharraf hopes, as do most Pakistanis, that America's rediscovery of Pakistan will be different, resulting in a resilient relationship.
In his two years in office since the military coup of Oct. 12, 1999, Mr. Musharraf has combined flexibility with a willingness to make tough decisions. He stunned Pakistanis by making a deal with Nawaz Sharif, whom he had deposed, by allowing the former prime minister and his family to move to Saudi Arabia. And the general, initially perceived as a hawk, surprised his detractors by reaching out to India's prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, at the Agra summit last July.
Now he has radically reshuffled his core military team, off-loading a number of the men who installed him in power and bringing in a new head for the Inter-Services Intelligence agency, which had been the most important conduit for Pakistan's support of the Taliban. Mr. Musharraf has distanced Pakistan from the Taliban and even invited Afghanistan's former king, Zahir Shah, to help cobble together a new coalition to govern Kabul.
Pakistan's change of direction needs sustained international support if the country is to be an effective defender of Muslim moderation. The American-led coalition can help in various ways: by providing economic relief, particularly a debt write-off, to help stabilize the country; by brokering a compromise with India over Kashmir; and by holding Mr. Musharraf to his promise of elections.
In a country where none of the free elections from 1970 to 1997 have given the religious political parties more than 5 percent of the popular vote, democracy remains the best bulwark against extremism. Only when democratic life has been stabilized will Pakistanis, and the region, taste the fruit of enduring freedom rather than enduring instability.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); REFUGEES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); RELIGION (86%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CONTUSIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); IMMIGRATION (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) HUSSAIN, MUSHAHID; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



394 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
On Everyday Bravery

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

 BODY:
"Calm down, relax," advised Mayor Rudy Giuliani at New York's Columbus Day parade. He added: "Be brave." President Bush agrees, urging us to fly again and "enjoy life." 
 That is seemingly contradicted by admonitions from others to "be vigilant." Catch-up alarmists wallow in warnings; as a result, mothers treat their children's every sniffle as incipient anthrax, while hydrated healthniks clutching security-bottles of water are suspected of transporting nitroglycerine. 
 Meanwhile, the act-normally advice of the mayor and the don't-hunker-down message of the president are twisted by the cynical into "splurge at the mall to support your country's economy" or "be a self-sacrificing patriot by dining out and going to a show." 
Coolness under potential fire is thus derided. An ultra-vigilant set that hoards arcane antibiotics and shops for designer gas masks is engaged in "panic chic." Fear is now their fad.
What of other people who are not free-range Chicken Littles but who have been made to feel vulnerable by a war that hits our homeland? We are uncomfortable with national anxiety. We are unfamiliar with a sense of personal danger. Accustomed to rapid response and quick closure, we are especially uneasy about having to wait for the other shoe, or bomb, to drop.
"Be brave." To a service member, or to a cop or firefighter recruited and trained to face a threat to life, that means to act honorably despite natural fear. Such courage is measurable; varying degrees of medals are awarded, sometimes posthumously, to denote its extent beyond the call of duty.
But what does "be brave" mean to those never called, to the person with a paunch -- to the family-centered civilian or the duty-free single citizen? In homeland defense, what used to be called "the home front" is now the actual front, and we have to comport ourselves with a degree of courage on this new front line. 
This is not about fearlessness; only the deranged or the wildly fanatic are fearless. The trick is to shake hands with our worry, get comfortable with our uneasiness, and manage our fear. How? We all have different ways -- religion, meditation, community voluntarism, exercise, meaningless dialogue, escapist novels, three-martini lunches -- but here are a couple that work for me, one negative, one positive:
First, get coldly angry, and not just at the designated villain in a TV studio with a rocky-cave backdrop. I am ticked off at the spooks and feds who failed spectacularly; at catch-up alarmists out to use this war to encroach on civil liberty and citizens' privacy; at Muslim-bashing bigots as well as Muslim clerics too timid to condemn suicide bombing; at Arab leaders who repay our aid and protection with permission to local zealots to fan hatred of America. 
In this regard, fury can be focused on Rihab Taha, the sleazy scientist first named in this space in 1995 as "Dr. Germs," boss of Saddam Hussein's biological warfare buildup. She's been hard at work on the side of deadly disease against the human race. (Read "Germs," by my colleagues Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg and William Broad; it's the most important book of the year.) Outrage served cold -- the kind that leads to action -- trumps fear.
Flip that to the positive side. A way to deal with the present jitters is to recognize that great good can grow out of combat with evil. 
To build a defense against terrorism's germ arsenal, we are belatedly producing vaccines and awakening to public health needs. Beyond that, government and private foundations are increasing support of basic research into ways to expand the capability of the body's innate immune system without triggering an autoimmune response.
A couple of years ago, I asked an official of the Centers for Disease Control when we might achieve the dream of a "universal vaccine" against all pathogens. He waved it off with "in 50 years, maybe." When he noticed I was a journalist, he cut it to 25 years. Now, under pressure, scientists are seeking "multivalent vaccines" against groups of diseases, which this generation may see. 
Out of crisis comes unexpected bravery. And out of today's threat of biowar may come tomorrow's conquest of infectious disease. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VACCINES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); RELIGION (84%); HIJACKING (79%); MEDITATION (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); TERRORISM (76%); ANTHRAX (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); POLITICS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (70%); POULTRY (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); ANTIBIOTICS (53%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; ISLAM 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



395 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Defends $54 Billion Aid Request 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday defended his request for $54 billion from Congress to help New York recover from terrorist attacks, including proposals to use federal aid to balance the state budget and to pay for state transportation projects.
 Mr. Pataki said the federal tax cuts under consideration by Congress, while helpful, would not be enough to save the state's teetering economy if the city and state governments were forced to cut jobs or raise taxes because revenues withered after the attacks. He also called pumping money into transportation infrastructure a fast, effective way to invigorate the economy. 
 In Albany, meanwhile, the debate over what sort of agency will oversee the reconstruction of Lower Manhattan began in earnest as the Assembly speaker began circulating a proposal that would give the State Legislature some influence over how disaster aid was spent.
The governor, a Republican, plans to travel to Washington today to meet with Congressional leaders and aides to President Bush and advocate his proposal. He said he would argue, as in recent days, that New York City played a pivotal role in the nation's economy and that the attack on the World Trade Center was in reality an attack on the entire nation.
Still, he acknowledged that he faced a tough fight in Congress, where representatives and senators from other states with faltering economies were likely to resist bailing out New York "This is going to be difficult, no question," Mr. Pataki said. "We may not get things that we hope to get."
Three weeks ago, Congress and the president approved $17.5 billion in disaster aid to help with cleaning up the devastated zone in Lower Manhattan and restoring public buildings and infrastructure. The Pataki administration now estimates the cost to be about twice that amount.
The governor is also seeking $2 billion in tax-free bonds, tax incentives and grants to encourage companies to stay and rebuild in Lower Manhattan. He is also seeking an additional $3 billion to help families of victims and dislocated workers.
One part of his plan likely to meet resistance is a request for $3 billion to finance transportation projects, including rail, road and bridge upgrades in upstate New York. Mr. Pataki is also seeking up to $12 billion in federal aid to make up for the steep drop in tax revenue both the city and state foresee.
In previous disasters like hurricanes and earthquakes, the federal government has not bailed out local governments for lost revenues, and lawmakers in Washington say Mr. Pataki faces an uphill battle persuading Congressional leaders and President Bush to do so.
"There is a unique impact to New York," the governor said. "I would hope that Washington would recognize that unique impact."
Indeed, the president has said in recent days that any economic stimulus package should consist of tax cuts, not additional spending, a view shared by many conservative Republicans in Congress. Mr. Pataki's proposal has the potential to set up a tug of war between moderates and conservatives within the Republican Party.
Mr. Pataki's request for more federal aid comes as House Republicans are beginning to draft a bill, requested by the president last Friday, that would pump about $75 billion into the nation's stumbling economy in tax cuts. How the governor's proposals mesh with that bill remains to be seen.
Even Mr. Pataki's comrade in arms, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, appeared to distance himself from the governor when he said in his budget address earlier this week that the federal government could best help the city by cutting taxes.
Mr. Pataki sees things a bit differently. "I think tax cuts are an appropriate way to stimulate the national economy, but if at the same time you are saying the state and city must raise taxes it undoes the benefit of the federal tax cut," he said.
The governor said the state was facing a steep loss of revenues that could be as much as $3 billion in the current fiscal year, roughly what his budget-makers say is in the state's emergency reserves. Tomorrow, Mr. Pataki plans to announce several belt-tightening measures in Albany, including a hiring freeze, he said.
Who controls the federal aid flowing to New York is also shaping up to be a potential battle in Albany. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has quietly circulated a proposal to create a Lower Manhattan Resurgence Authority, a joint state and city body that would be charged with repairing the damage caused by the Sept. 11 attack, lifting the area's sagging economy and planning a memorial to the victims.
Mr. Pataki has not said how he would handle the reconstruction, and aides say he is undecided about whether to call for a new agency or rely on an existing one that he controls, as well as about how the state should share power with the city, the federal government or New Jersey.
Mr. Silver's plan, dated last Friday and circulated among some of the Assembly's Democratic majority, envisions an authority controlled equally by the state and the city, though many state officials have said that Albany should have the primary role.
The authority's chairman would be named jointly by the governor and the mayor, who would each also appoint three other board members. The Assembly and Senate leaders, the City Council speaker and the city comptroller would each appoint one. There would also be nonvoting members representing organized labor, various public agencies and the State of New Jersey.
The speaker, who was observing a religious holiday, could not be reached for comment yesterday. A spokesman for Mr. Silver, Charles Carrier, said the governor had been given the proposal on Monday. Michael McKeon, Mr. Pataki's communications director, said he did not believe that the governor's office had seen the plans in writing, and declined to comment on them.
Neither the speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert, a Republican, nor the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, a Democrat, has taken a position on the governor's request. Mr. Pataki was scheduled to meet with both today, after meeting with White House aides in the morning.
The New York delegation is supporting Mr. Pataki, though some say parts of the plan will be a tough sell. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said some of the state's proposals, like tax-exempt bonds for developers, might fit in the economic stimulus bill being drafted. 
"New York was severely attacked," she said. "I think you can make a very strong argument that they are stimulative. There are arguments that I think are legitimate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); BONDS (70%); TRENDS (69%); WEATHER (68%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRANSPORTATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



396 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE; 
A Buyer's Market for Autos Is a Tough Development for Chrysler

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, Mich., Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Dieter Zetsche is holding an arm's length pair of cardboard scissors. The Romeo High School band has played "The Star Spangled Banner." A big American flag is unfurled into a cloudy sky. Veterans salute and a pastor prays. Now it's time for Mr. Zetsche, the chief executive of the Chrysler Group, to cut the big red ribbon stretching over the entrance of Orchard Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge, a new dealership nestled next to a Fashion Bug and a Farmer Jack, several miles north of Detroit. 
 For Mr. Zetsche, 48, an affable, slim German with small, rounded glasses perched over a walrus mustache, cutting the ribbon is the easy part. 
 The hard part is actually selling the cars. 
"There are very few industries that could claim Sept. 11 had no impact," he said later. "It's wise to assume that the market next year will be smaller than we thought six weeks ago." 
Chrysler's problems, however, were well established before Sept. 11. Mr. Zetsche was dispatched by Stuttgart last year to turn around the ailing Chrysler, which was acquired in 1998 by DaimlerBenz, to form DaimlerChrysler. Since taking over, his task has only seemed to get harder, and last week his company conceded that its turnaround goals were "at risk," partly because of a new wave of incentives instituted by the Big Three automakers to revive flagging sales. 
Such deals make it a buyer's market and overall sales for the industry have rebounded, but at a price. Chrysler spent an average of $2,627 a vehicle on incentives through the first nine months of the year, according to a recent report from Merrill Lynch. That is more than any other carmaker and $589 above the industry average, for a company that had an average net loss, per vehicle, of $579 in the first half of the year.
General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler were already losing market share to foreign automakers before Sept. 11, but the attacks led to domestic parts shortages because of transportation problems, some production cuts and the new incentives. But analysts see Chrysler as the weakest link. Heading into what is probably a recession, problems are emerging on all fronts -- falling sales, rising marketing costs, a continued abandonment by American investors and a market share that has fallen so far that many wonder when Toyota Motor will oust Chrysler from the Big Three. 
Making matters worse is that Toyota and other foreign automakers, as well as G.M., are flooding the sport utility vehicle and light truck market, Chrysler's bread and butter. At the same time, Chrysler's own cupboard is relatively bare of a major new vehicle introduction until 2004, leaving it exposed at a time when the appetite of car buyers is expected, even by Mr. Zetsche, to shrink next year. He says that Chrysler's recent new vehicles, like the PT Cruiser and the Jeep Liberty S.U.V., can carry the company.
"We are a company with the youngest product lineup of all our competitors," he said. "Yes, there are less launches next year. But we have great, new, competitive products."
Still, some of its old warhorses are fading. Where its Jeep Grand Cherokee was once a flagship among sport utility vehicles, its sales fell 39 percent in September from the month a year ago. Liberty has not picked up enough slack to compensate. 
Eighty-seven stock mutual funds hold DaimlerChrysler, according to recent reports from Morningstar, a fund tracking firm, down from 282 fund holders in mid-1999. By some valuation measures, the stock now looks cheaper than Ford or G.M., but even managers of value funds, which seek out bargains, are wary.
"I'm not quite sure what they're going to market," said James Benson, the manager of the $275 million Oakmark Small Cap fund and the auto analyst for the Oakmark family of funds. 
"The new management of Chrysler is doing many of the right things, but I'm not excited about their products in the near term," he said. "It kind of takes three, four or five years for the new management to make their mark."
Of the Big Three, Mr. Benson favors Ford, which he says has a better balance sheet and more efficient operations. Like many American fund managers, Mr. Benson appears to have sold out of DaimlerChrysler. Harris Associates, the parent of the Oakmark funds group, sold all of its 313,000 shares of DaimlerChrysler in the second quarter of this year, according to bigdough.com, which tracks Securities and Exchange Commission filings. 
Still, Mr. Benson, like many analysts with negative outlooks for DaimlerChrysler, respects Mr. Zetsche, a longtime executive of Mercedes. He also once ran DaimlerChrysler's Freightliner division -- whose current struggles also weigh down its corporate parent. Mr. Zetsche has managed positive relations with the United Auto Workers and is an engineer by training whose knowledge of cars is respected. 
"Ironically, Daimler buying Chrysler, I think at this point, may be working largely in our favor," said Doug Rothwell, the president of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, which was formed when the state spun off its commerce department.
"If you had asked people three or four years ago, they would have seen it as a sellout, but nobody wants to see Chrysler be successful more than Schrempp and Zetsche," he added, referring also to Jurgen Schrempp, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler and the architect of the merger. 
Mr. Zetsche's turnaround plan, announced in February, aims to cut 26,000 jobs, or 20 percent of the work force, by 2003, and also idle six plants around the world. The plan called for a modest profit next year, but analysts find that highly unlikely at this point. Saul Rubin of UBS Warburg now projects a $1.4 billion loss for Chrysler next year. 
"The basic premise is that they would be able to trim costs and sustain their market share at 14 percent," Mr. Rubin said. Chrysler's share has lately fallen into the 11 percent range, while interest-free financing actually helped G.M.'s share rise substantially last month.
"Chrysler did the right things, but they didn't go far enough," Mr. Rubin said. "They have to realize that their market share will continue to go down in the future. You have to adjust your cost structure appropriately."
Jack Shnoravorian, sales manager at Star Chrysler Jeep in Glendale, Calif., now has more than a dozen PT Cruisers on his lot. 
"It came out really strong, but its slowed down recently," he said. "It's cooled off." 
"Before, we didn't have any," he added, referring to last year. "We had to order them and people had to wait as much as a year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); MARKET SHARE (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); AIRLINES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); NEW CAR MODELS (71%); SALES FIGURES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); HIJACKING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%) AUTOMOBILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (74%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ;GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; FORD MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (74%); TM (NYSE) (74%); 7203 (TSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (90%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



397 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: After Month Off, Parties Resume Efforts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Ending a monthlong respite that followed the terrorist attacks, the Democratic and Republican Parties have resumed political events and the soliciting of contributions. And officials of each party suggested today that their counterparts were capitalizing on the tragedy for partisan gain.
 The Democratic National Committee has asked the Federal Election Commission to waive its rules temporarily so that there is a loosening of those governing soft money, contributions that are unlimited and largely unregulated. In a letter to the election commission, Joseph E. Sandler, the party's general counsel, cited the "national emergency." 
 "In these difficult circumstances," Mr. Sandler wrote, "it will likely continue to prove extremely difficult for the D.N.C. to raise funds of all kinds."
The commission is to consider the matter this month. A waiver would give the Democrats 120 days, rather than the current 60, to make a deposit of soft money into a soft-money account after such funds have been pledged by donors. Failure to meet that deadline has occasionally hindered soft-money budgeting.
Terence R. McAuliffe, the Democratic national chairman, said in an interview that by halting fund-raising after the attacks, the party had lost out on millions of dollars, some of which might have been pumped into the races for governor in New Jersey and Virginia.
"We had to cancel five fund-raisers," Mr. McAuliffe said, adding that he was now scrambling to make up for the lost money.
Asked whether he could recoup it before the elections next month, he said that "you just don't have enough time" but that the campaigns would still take in plenty of party money.
The Republican national chairman, Gov. James S. Gilmore III of Virginia, said his party had resisted entreaties from the Democrats to join them in asking the election commission to suspend its rules.
Mr. Gilmore said he would not criticize the Democrats' request. "We're trying to raise the tone of the debate," he said. 
But other Republicans grumbled at Mr. Sandler's citing the attacks of Sept. 11 in an effort to raise more money. And Scott Harshbarger, president of Common Cause, the nonpartisan group that advocates tightening the campaign finance system, said, "For the Democrats to claim that terrorist attacks somehow justify widening the soft-money loophole is simply not credible."
Democratic officials, meanwhile, suggested that it was the Republicans who were invoking the attacks for political advantage. This week Jack Oliver, the Republicans' deputy national chairman, distributed an e-mail message that encouraged recipients to sign "our online petition in support of President Bush and the war on terrorism." Democrats said they suspected that the Republicans would use the message -- which asks for people's home and e-mail addresses and phone numbers -- to build lists of donors.
"It would be totally inappropriate to be using this national-security crisis and to turn it into a fund-raising appeal," Mr. McAuliffe said. "It would be totally inappropriate and outrageous."
Defending his party's efforts, Governor Gilmore said: "It's just an informational e-mail. We're entitled to keep our members informed of what's going on in Washington."
Mr. Gilmore did acknowledge, however, that not all recipients of the e-mail message were party members, though he denied that the message was a fund-raising tool.
In addition to both parties' resumption of political events and telephone soliciting, the Democrats last week distributed their first mailed solicitation since Sept. 11, and the Republicans plan to send their first mailing on Friday.
In their appeal to thousands of prospective donors, the Democrats said their decision to suspend raising money after the attacks had taken a toll. "It was the right thing to do out of respect to the victims and their families," Mr. McAuliffe wrote. "But today, the D.N.C. is in financial trouble. Due to the suspension of our fund-raising efforts, our bank accounts are nearly dry and we have been forced to cut our budget back to the bare bones." 
In the interview, Mr. McAuliffe said he was not so blatantly partisan as before Sept. 11.
"In every speech, I talk about our 100 percent support for President Bush and our efforts fighting terrorism," he said. "I do talk about that there may be differences related to the economic stimulus package."
Mr. Gilmore said his party, which benefits financially from controlling the White House and having a wider network of contributors than the Democrats, was still flush but had nevertheless tried to return to a normal political schedule.
"We're beginning to gradually resume, but we don't intend to go to a harsh-tone situation," he said. "We're not condemning the Democrats. We intend to basically appeal to our members to support us."
He added that he was surprised by the tone of Mr. McAuliffe's fund-raising solicitation, saying, "I'm not sure I'd be quite as pitiful as that."
As part of the resumption of activity, Vice President Dick Cheney, in his first political foray since Sept. 11, is to speak next week at the annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner in New York, a charity fund-raiser that is traditionally one of the city's biggest political pageants.
And tonight Representative Mark Foley, a Florida Republican, collected about $75,000 for his re-election campaign in a reception at his Capitol Hill home. The event, where donors ate marinated flank steak and skewers of grilled tuna, was originally scheduled for Sept. 11.
"Our work goes on," Mr. Foley said. "Our election will happen regardless of the Sept. 11 date." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PETITIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ETHICS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (62%) ELECTIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; TERRORISM; ETHICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (90%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); COMMON CAUSE (59%) ;FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION; COMMON CAUSE (ORGN) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIM GILMORE (78%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



398 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Court Shields Chirac From Corruption Inquiries
France's highest court of appeal granted President Jacques Chirac broad presidential immunity while in office, agreeing that as head of state he was above the law. The decision derailed efforts by five investigating magistrates to question him on a range of corruption allegations dating from his time as mayor of Paris. A3

Shooting Leaves Gaza Stunned
The streets in Gaza were quiet but tense after a protest on Monday in which two Palestinians were killed by the Palestinian police, leaving residents stunned and outraged that their own police would fire live bullets to quell a demonstration. A12

Backing in Italy for U.S. Strikes
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi secured broad political support for Italian participation in the American-led military strikes in Afghanistan. A12

Arrests in Afghan Smuggling
Officials across Central Europe have dismantled a people-smuggling gang that has brought tens of thousands of Afghan refugees into the European Union, the Czech police said. A4

Sri Lanka Leader Calls Elections
President Chandrika Kumaratunga, facing certain defeat in a confidence vote today, dissolved Parliament and called new elections for December. Under Sri Lanka's hybrid political system, the move allows her to remain president even if her coalition, the People's Alliance, loses. A8

World Briefing A14

NATIONAL A16-20

The Major Parties End A Monthlong Political Truce
The Republican and Democratic Parties resumed political events and the soliciting of contributions, and officials of each party suggested that the other party was trying to capitalize on the Sept. 11 terror attacks. A16

New No. 2 for House Democrats
House Democrats elected Representative Nancy Pelosi of California their party's next whip, making her second in command to the minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt on Jan. 15. A18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

3 Share Nobel in Chemistry
Two Americans, Dr. William S. Knowles and Dr. K. Barry Sharpless, and a Japanese, Dr. Ryoji Noyori, were honored for developing more efficient chemical reactions to produce many medicines. A20

Asian Action on AIDS
Health ministers from Asian-Pacific countries pledged to devote more resources to fighting the disease. A6

OBITUARIES A23

Herbert Ross
The Broadway choreographer-turned-film director was 74. A23

NEW YORK/REGION D1-9

Postal Service to Delay Penn Station Expansion
The Postal Service, citing the aftermath of the trade center attack, told New York State officials that it was suspending an ambitious redevelopment plan to expand the station into the General Post Office nearby. D1

Hispanic Turnout Rises
The gap between white and Hispanic turnout narrowed in the mayoral primary two weeks ago, an analysis of voting patterns found. And over all, the 29 percent turnout rate was higher than city election officials had originally estimated, despite the postponement caused by the terror attack. D1

The Democratic mayoral runoff between Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer is today. D5

New Jersey Debate
The gubernatorial candidates, Bret D. Schundler, the Republican, and James E. McGreevey, the Democrat, met in a spirited first debate. D1

ARTS E1-12

Infighting at Arts Center
Lincoln Center is being torn by a new level of conflict among its powerful performing arts groups, with the center's billion-dollar redevelopment project hanging in the balance. E1

The Shows Are Going On
Broadway theaters are showing signs of bouncing back to near normal attendance, according to figures from the League of American Theaters and Producers that indicate a stronger-than-usual turnout by New Yorkers and suburbanites. E1

CIRCUITS G1-10

SPORTS S1-7

Yanks Lose Opener
Oakland beat the Yankees, 5-3, in the first game of their playoff series. In the N.L., Atlanta beat Houston, 1-0, to take a 2-0 lead, and St. Louis beat Arizona, 4-1, to even their series, 1-1. S1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

A Nobel for U.S. Economists
Joseph E. Stiglitz of Columbia University, George A. Akerlof of Berkeley and A. Michael Spence of Stanford received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for research in the shortcomings and imperfections of market systems. C1

Stocks Stage Broad Rally
The Dow rose 188.42 points, or 2.08 percent, to 9,240.86; the S.& P. 500 rose 24.24 points, or 2.29 percent, to 1,080.99; and the Nasdaq gained 56.07, or 3.57 percent, to 1,626.26. C10

Yahoo barely met quarterly forecasts for revenue and profit and cut its sales forecast for the next quarter. C4

Increasing Anthrax Drug Supply
The German drug company Bayer said it would increase production of its antibiotic Cipro, which is the only medicine specifically approved for the treatment of inhaled anthrax. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Wartime secrecy; federal help for New York City; patience and antiterrorism.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E7
Weather A22
Public Lives D2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (73%); CITIES (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CHEMISTRY (67%); AIDS & HIV (64%); POSTAL SERVICE (64%); REFUGEES (54%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); NANCY PELOSI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); SRI LANKA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



399 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Ads Down, Yahoo Expects a Hard Quarter

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
In the face of a dismal market for advertising, Yahoo said yesterday that it barely met its forecasts for revenue and profit in the third quarter, but it sharply cut its sales forecast for the fourth quarter.
 Yahoo, the largest Web portal, lost $24.1 million, in contrast with a profit of $47.7 million in the period a year earlier. Its sales fell to $166.1 million, from $295.6 million in the third quarter last year. 
 Previously, Yahoo had predicted a rebound in its fourth-quarter sales to as much as $250 million, but yesterday it said its revenue would be in the range of the $160 million to $180 million it had forecast for the recent quarter. 
Terry Semel, Yahoo's chief executive, said, "There is no question that the economy and the market for advertising are not only showing no signs of picking up, but both have shown signs of declining."
As a result, he said, Yahoo is considering further staff cuts on top of a round of layoffs earlier this year. He declined to say how many jobs might be eliminated.
Mr. Semel, the former co-head of the Warner Brothers studio, was appointed Yahoo's chief executive in April. 
Still, shares of Yahoo, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., rose 77 cents in regular-session trading yesterday, to $10.93, and as high as $11.75 after the earnings report.
Anthony Noto, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, said that the slowdown in business would further delay Yahoo's recovery.
"It is a difficult environment that limits the assets they have to invest in new opportunities," he said.
Yahoo, which at one stage had been one of the few profitable Internet companies, said it would seek to break even in the fourth quarter or make a penny a share, at least by its nonstandard pro forma measure of profits. By that measure, the company also earned $8.4 million in the third quarter, or 1 cent a share, about what analysts had estimated. The pro forma results excluded $18 million in investment losses, $1.5 million in costs related to stock options, and $15 million in acquisition-related costs.
The terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 caused the company to forgo $2 million to $3 million in revenue as a result of the cancellation of advertising contracts.
With the demand for online advertising continuing to fall, Yahoo has put much more emphasis on developing services for which businesses or consumers will pay fees. Indeed, revenue from such services increased 3 percent in the quarter, to $34 million, even as advertising revenue declined 11 percent, to $132 million.
Analysts said there was little unexpected in what Yahoo had released. But the lack of anything exciting in itself was a disappointment.
"A lot of people have been looking for a grand new strategy out of the new management team and they certainly didn't get it," said Paul Noglows, an analyst with J. P. Morgan Chase. "I want more specifics, and I don't think they are there yet."
Mr. Semel said, however, that Yahoo's biggest initiative -- creating services that millions of users would pay fees for -- has taken longer than expected.
Part of the delay, Mr. Semel said, came from his review of Yahoo's management. 
"We were organized into 44 business units, and I wanted to sit down with the managers of each of them to talk about their future," he said. "That process took longer than we thought, but there was no reason to rush through it."
The result of that review, he said, would be a more streamlined organization, although he declined to provide details.
At the same time, he said that Yahoo has to develop technology to offer broad-based consumer services. "Yahoo has never had a product for the masses," he said, "and we needed a payment system that would work for millions of people." 
And similarly it had to hire people skilled in direct subscription marketing rather than the sort of brand advertising it has conducted.
More broadly, Mr. Semel said it had taken longer than he had hoped to hire a new group of executives, especially in the critical advertising sales department. Only yesterday did Yahoo fill the essential job of head of advertising sales in North America, hiring Wenda Harris Millard, a former executive at the Internet advertising firm DoubleClick.
Yahoo's vast audience continued to grow slowly in the recent quarter. It reported 210 million users in September, up 5 percent. 
Despite the falling revenue, Yahoo has a strong balance sheet. Its cash on hand declined by $37 million, to $1.71 billion in the quarter, largely because it repurchased $60 million of its stock. Its accounts payable increased by $19 million.
Analysts were concerned that Yahoo's deferred revenue, essentially its backlog of business for the next two quarters, declined $10 million, to $110 million. And the company said this was another sign that the fourth quarter would be slower than it earlier expected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yahoo's chief executive, Terry Semel, is considering more staff cuts. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WARNER BROTHERS STUDIO STORES INTERNATIONAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YAHOO INC 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (88%) HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 



400 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Federal Help for New York City 

 BODY:
With Mayor Rudolph Giuliani at his side, Gov. George Pataki unveiled a broad plan on Tuesday to make New York economically whole in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. He asked the federal government for $54 billion to carry it out. The plan, which would reimburse the city and state for everything from cleanup costs to lost tax revenues, is undeniably comprehensive. It is also an excessively ambitious wish list that is too diffuse to generate the kind of support that can be realistically expected from Washington. The two politicians should refine the list, focus on recovery and hew closely to the maxim enunciated by the mayor himself: "The federal aid that we ask for should be honestly connected to the World Trade Center." 
 Washington has already approved about $17 billion in federal aid, much of it for clearing the site and rebuilding public infrastructure serving Lower Manhattan. Most experts believe the city will need double that amount and perhaps more to finish these tasks, as well as to provide services to victims' families and to help the many small businesses wiped out by the collapse of the towers. Filling these basic needs -- and setting up a special federal recovery zone for Lower Manhattan, which the plan also envisages -- should be the primary focus. 
 The governor estimated recovery and rebuilding costs at $34 billion and tacked on $20 billion more in various projects that would go forward if President Bush and Congress agree on a national economic stimulus package. Included in the stimulus component was $12 billion in restitution for lost city and state tax revenues, along with a laundry list of transportation and other public projects that had been sitting on the shelf.
Aides said yesterday that Mr. Pataki had intended to make a sharp distinction between the recovery projects and the list. But because this distinction was not clearly drawn, the governor, who is New York's point man in Washington this week, appeared to be invoking a tactic that works better in Albany than in Washington -- laying every possible option on the table as an opening bid. One item on the list, for example, would expedite high-speed rail service from Schenectady to New York City -- hardly the sort of idea to arouse sympathy in Congress. Projects like these can be financed later as part of an overall stimulus package but should not be confused with restoration.
Mr. Giuliani's own announcement of budget cuts sent a clearer signal to Washington that New York City, as he put it, is not running to Congress with a tin cup. The mayor wisely instituted an official hiring freeze and announced that this year's budget would be cut by $1 billion. At the same time, the mayor appealed to New York's Congressional delegation to seek additional money from Medicaid and other federal accounts. These are useful first steps in what is sure to be a protracted struggle to get the city's budget under control.
Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Pataki, never an easy pair, have been working together reasonably well since the attacks. They must continue to cooperate for vital lobbying in Washington to repair the damage to New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TRENDS (75%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MEDICAID (72%); APPROVALS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (63%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; EDITORIALS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001 

 
